ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92461	Thank you, Mr. President. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at the 46th session held on 19 November 2014, the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, of 13 November, was addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Maria Moharic, representative in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed crimes of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (3). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penal Code, criminal offence of counterfeiting the official document referred to in Article 312(1) and (2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Mario Moharić is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, based on Article 76. The Constitution and Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated and no criminal proceedings shall be initiated without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a decision to grant authorisation for the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Marija Moharic, at the request of the State Attorney's Office and USKOK, of 12 November 2014, sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to grant authorisation for the conduct of the criminal proceedings. The mandate-immunity committee granted authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Marija Moharic at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties in the jurisdiction of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92462	Thank you very much, esteemed president. I'm opening a debate on the commission's proposal. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Manadat-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 116 votes for the proposed decision. That ended the vote on all the things that were on the agenda. We are moving to a debate on the draft agenda. It is now time: - Final proposal of the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 742; The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Can we continue our esteemed colleagues and colleagues? The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92464	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. You have before you the proposal for a law on regional development of the Republic of Croatia, so here's when this crowd clears up. ... And what shall I say when they cry up? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We won't get used to it, we won't get used to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92465	My dear Minister, I agree with you, if there are any problems, raise your hands, a tile or something. We've got time, we'll work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92466	Here's a thank you. So before you there is a proposal for a law on regional development, an important law after a year of debate, a public debate literally a year and a partial application of some of the provisions of this law, we can now approach and discuss the final proposal for this law as it should be implemented. What this law brings is a newspaper that we need in several key segments. This is, above all, an adjustment to the new conditions of Croatia's membership in the European Union and the possibility to absorb money from the European Union in a easier, faster and more efficient way. In this segment, I would particularly highlight one newspaper, a novelty, which is that in the structure of the areas that are the subject of this law, so-called. urban areas. Why, because under the new provisions of the European Union regulation on the implementation of the urban cohesion policy, which means urban agglomerations and smaller and larger urban areas, they will have the opportunity to directly use EU funds of 5% of the total allocation of the European Regional Development Fund. It is one new thing to be prepared for and in this sense we have proposed the formation of specific urban areas and it is one of certainly new provisions within the bill. The second thing is crucial in this law is full, I stress the full application of the new categorization of local self-government units according to the development index. That development index has been tickling and cooking for years, I'd say. The past government, the HDZ government adopted this categorisation towards the development index, but it is very partial and controversially applied in some other frameworks of government action, and now comes to the application of its basic purpose for which it has obviously not been brave enough to implement this, and this is a completely new system of categorisation in the implementation of key regional policy measures in encouraging the least developed areas of Croatia. It's a key message. Why is this important? Well, because the existing system simply became unsustainable. All analyses and professional, therefore professional institutions, institutions of our own, and governments have also shown, of course, that years have done their part, which means that in these last years I would say 10 years of application, 11 years of application of the law on mountain-mounted areas or even longer application of the PPDS Act, that some things have changed. In addition, we are 19 years behind the war on our premises and the end of the Homeland War, which also conditioned in one part that these areas of PPDS are directly linked to the consequences of the war, so there is a reconstruction at the end I would say, although it is not completely finished but it is near the end. So there are many moments that have happened in these years in the meantime and now there has been a moment for a new distribution of cards in the sense that it really sees who at this point is least developed in Croatia, whether they receive state support or not, and should receive it. Also on the other hand, whether someone is currently receiving support, and it is important to bounce on a scale of development and now we are in a situation where somewhere around 100 units of local self-government have a development index below 75% of the Croatian average, and they are not in the system, nor have they been in the last 24 years of the Croatian state, and that is not good. Thus, at least 24 years of age have not received a kuna of incentives through measures to develop the assisted area. On the other hand, you now have 65 units of local self-government crossing the 75% average of Croatia's development by the development index. So these changes have already occurred that change of status, 100 units would have entered the system, 65 would have come out. However, I would particularly like to stress that this process would not happen immediately and currently as this has often been maliciously interpreted in public these days in the debate on this law, we have already provided for serious compensatory measures and serious compensation for these minor support based on tax and other relief for these units. How, so that those three years would come out of the system and that aid would be slightly reduced year by year, and by next year it would be between 40% and 65% of all the support they had so far. So nothing happens suddenly and overnight but there is so-called. ... out or out of the system model as well as the European Union when it comes to NUTS2 etc. regions. Now we're going one step further, so I think it's pretty clear, so let's say yesterday we talked about here on the board, the municipality or the town of Leprechaun and their status, so they're coming out of the system after this, so we've found that they've been receiving about 6.2 million kunas of support annually in the budget based on profit tax rates, based on a larger share of income tax, and that through this compensation over the next year they're going to get 4.2 million kuna, which is not a small amount of money to compensate for these 6. So it's no big difference in our assessment and I think it might be good for one of those easy transitions to new status. What, though, needs to be particularly highlighted now? I think it's an extremely important thing, and I've already said publicly that it really shows here that when the government decided to enter this project into this serious reform that it was certainly not run by any political narrow party or other matters. This is proof that from 100 units entering system 95 are located in northern Croatia from Međimurje to Vukovar and the largest number in Slavonia. I dare say and, of course, to my colleagues from Slavonia, I am telling them that we had very important discussions here when we talked about NUC2 regions and their formation and when we promised that we would take great care of Slavonia in other segments of the implementation of development policy, and then regional development policy, that there would come a time when we would highlight this problem of less Slavonia's development. Here comes the moment. 95 units are from northern Croatia, and of 127 Slavonian units of local self-government seems to me somewhere around 117 will be in the future state support system, 117. Of course, Slavonia cannot boast of being less developed. No, this is just a moment where we're finding a situation and we're stressing that we're actually doing this move for Slavonia one big thing, which is that in the future a significant number of local self-government units that haven't received a single kuna in years now will get one new chance, one new chance. These five units are from Karlovac, Sisak, to the Adriatic, only 5 units entering the system are in this more developed part of Croatia, let's say what was to be expected. It's the other way around when we're looking at units coming out of the system. The minimum number of those coming out of the system is north of Croatia and the largest number is west of Croatia and south of Croatia, so the coastal unit of local self-government. And that's what, that's the map of Croatia's development that we already know about, and here it's detailed. Now there's one more thing. I want to make it very clear. When we proposed this serious reform, we didn't look at the unit per unit, nor can we do it. We're building a system and I'm asking for support to build a system, and not an analysis of the position I don't know now I'm going to say Lepoglava, Nasica, Delnica, Fužina or, say, Matulja and similar units of local self-government. If we go that way then the system will never be built. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. But this is the way to greater justice of the system in the sense that units that are really, really undeveloped are entering the system. First 10 Štefanje, Štitar, Dranje, Nova Rača, Nova Bukovica, Kloštar Podravski, Staro Petrovo Selo, Špisić Bukovica, Rovisce, Dežanovac etc. etc. So here are the only ones that I've listed none of them are above 50% of the Croatian average. Do they deserve to be in the system? I think I'll get the support of all of you sitting here, I hope. Yes, because otherwise you will vote against those units of local self-government and against the citizens who live there. Yeah, that's a message. It's not blackmail, it's our relationship to local self-government units and citizens in the least developed areas. I appeal to the awareness that we are in solidarity with them, to protect their needs, simply their path, the way that many other units of local self-government in Croatia have gone. One more thing. In this system, measures should also be known, new 388 000 citizens will be found. So these 100 units have 388 000 citizens living in local self-government. The benefits of a new position are not only for local self-government units, but also for direct citizens. You are well aware of the status of PPDS, areas of special state concern, that citizens there also had additional tax reliefs, increased personal deductions within the calculation of their net salaries, which led them to higher salaries than in the rest of Croatia. The model continues to be delayed, although personal deductions are increasing. They increase from 2700 kuna to 3000 kuna to 3300 for the first category of assisted areas. Therefore, these 380 000 citizens, or those employed, will also have higher salaries based on increased personal deductions. Let's not forget it, so a very complex whole system of measures. There's something else very important. Given the very live debate on the status of mountain-mounted areas in these changes, I want to make it very clear that the Law on mountain-mounted areas is not abolished, not abolished. In addition to the Law on Supported Areas, which will be a key law, i.e. a key part of the Regional Development Act, we will also have specific development areas because of their demographic, natural, geographical and other characteristics that will continue to involve islands. Which means we're keeping the island law. And secondly, a significant specific area is the mountain-mounted area. Since the next year will be a serious compensation for those mountain-mounted units coming out of the system, we have sent a very clear message that by next summer we will also have a new system of measures for mountain-mounted areas. Those measures will be on the trail of the Island Act. This means we are going through a reduction in the additional share of income tax, and primarily for the implementation of capital projects, means for the financing of capital investments. In addition, there will be, of course, some specific measures, but then on this, it is something that will be under public debate. What I'm also trying to say is that this phone booth has heard some kind of thinking that I don't, of course, agree with, and that's a question of even supporting the development of the so-called. assisted areas. I must say that in the government itself at the time of the savings 10 months ago, it was the idea to completely erase measures for assisted areas in use in the state budget. Yeah, yeah, and that was the idea. ... Please, nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, my struggle to keep the assisted areas and all that we have today, which is that not only have these areas been abolished but they have been increased by the number and by the resources that descend into the least developed units is this law today and everything that goes with it. So I would especially like to emphasise the total number of units of local self-government that will in any way receive certain support from the state under this law has never been greater, which means 329 units of local self-government. Of which 264 in the status of assisted areas and 65 units in the transitional period with very concrete financial compensation. However, in order to show very clearly the responsibility of this government in terms of maintaining the stability of the budget of public finances, and I would say avoiding the growth of total costs, I must say, in a financial sense, regardless of the increased number of units that the state will support, that the total amount of money that will be made by around a billion and 200 million kuna through these three key measures remains about the same. I'm sure you'll be wondering how that's possible. It's possible a fairer distribution. Since these 100 units have less economic power, the total amount of support for them is slightly smaller than it was for these 65. And that difference of support from about 200 million kuna is used to compensate those who come out of the system for the next three years. So the total mass of money used to support local self-government units I say will stay here somewhere and will be about a billion and 200 million through these three measures. Why am I stressing three measures all the time? Because that's not all we bring down to local self-government units. I am announcing an amendment to the Government, or the SDP Representatives' Club, likely to regulate additional support to liquidity units, hence the government's ongoing donation but indeed the least developed units that will not profit much from the additional measures I've already talked about. It's about 70 units of local self-government that will have an extra 40 million kuna in this division. And it will be seen very quickly as an amendment to the proposed budget. Here, so that's one comprehensive model, and this whole story is something that's part of the reform package relative to local self-government. The first part of that story is certainly the law you just passed, the Income Tax Act that will lead to an increase in salaries for cca million of our employees. Another large part of this package is the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and regional which will also hopefully be on the agenda today. And the third large part of this package is this law, the Regional Development Act, which also brings about important changes and newspapers in positioning the least developed units of local self-government in the coming period. What needs to be particularly highlighted in this context, and I would like to refer, of course, to the already existing public reactions to this law, you see those who, with this new redistribution of support, have to lose something, too, by opening up their huge potentials to make it extremely easy to compensate. Of course, I think of the already mentioned EU funds and the huge money hidden there or standing for the needs of local self-government units. In this context my call and appeal to everyone on time prepare for this if you have not already begun, then start immediately. What the government does in this regard is two things, one is the establishment of a new large fund to co-finance EU projects at 160m kuna per year. So, I stress one more time is about money to finance or co-finance its own share in EU projects. So what is particularly important for units that have no money to co-finance such capital major development projects. Secondly, in our budget, the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development will continue to be a special fund for units from assisted areas, so additional money will depend naturally on budgetary opportunities. This year it is 30 million kuna, which is not only money to co-finance projects, but also to finance project preparation. An extremely important thing that now that you make all this into a single story says that a unit of local self-government from an assisted area can, without engagement, go to one of its kunas to prepare a project, complete project documentation, application, get money from a large fund for co-financing of the national component therefore its own component and plus EU money, practically implement the project without going to the budget of the unit of local self-government. It's a message, people. It's a message. So new times bring new money, big money that needs only to be taken, and that's why it needs knowledge, which is why it needs capacity. So, just as one example, two days ago, three, five of us were in Klanjc City where he started implementing a project worth 21 million kuna, 21 million kuna is the original budget of the City of Klanjc. So one project covers 2.5 budgets, one city's annual budgets. That speaks clearly about the possibilities. Two weeks ago we were in Vukovar, we signed a contract for the City of Vukovar, a water supply and disposal project worth 360 million kuna, 360 million kuna is the 3 year budget of the City of Vukovar from EU sources. Another example of how it is possible to make up, not only make up, but also far, far beyond in new conditions any losses so-called. a kuna that will happen to such or such a change in the system itself. And I expect from which of these more developed who come out of the system that they have the capacity to do it because they are stronger, because they are better, and I hope they will be faster and more successful, and every kuna they now lose through a tax, is the easiest thing to do when the tax cap, kuna per kuna tax income from citizens, from businesses, etc. It's the easy way to sit and wait. No more, you don't allow us in the state, in the government to sit and wait, but forgive me, the time has come and everyone else is engaged in it. Because the 7 billion kunas we planned in 2015 are not government projects, that we understand each other, no, so these aren't government projects, these are projects just the unit of local self-government, these are business projects through the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and only the work of the infrastructure projects behind which the government is standing, we're part of. Therefore, an invitation to all, not only to local self-government units, and NGOs, and businesses, and institutions, and utility companies from these cities, etc. etc. Everyone has to get involved in the joint business. The message is very clear that I am personally out of line and I am taking full responsibility for the absorption of EU funds, but it is also important to know that the absorption of EU funds depends not only on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's what everyone needs to know. All the ones I've listed are responsible. Prepare projects, invest several kunas to get very much, very much. Imagine the company, yesterday I said it at a rally, which will receive 45% of the grants through the EU funds for its investment. When someone gives you 45% of the investment, there is no competitor who will be more competitive than you. Where are you going to lose that? Where are you going to lose that 45% except for the ignorance, disorganization and some kind of venison? Because there's a problem. So the possibilities are huge and we have to do a really big job together, and we in the government, I say, here are these changes, at least as far as local and regional self-government units are concerned, we've prepared a huge field. All the money, through these funds, I say, without swearing today can be launched and implemented in the local self-government unit. I'm sorry, not today, but since 01.01 next year. And of course I want to be sure that when it comes to these losses, I stress again, that there are no new opportunities to be forgotten at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92467	Thank you, too, Deputy Prime Minister. Before moving to 20 replicas, I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Tourism Committee has scheduled a session at the Ivan Mažuranić hall today at 12 o'clock. And now we're going to the replicas. Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92468	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Greek Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, I must confess that I haven't heard this amount of demagogy and unfounded optimism for a long time. So we're talking about the first law now, about the package, you're about everything, but let's talk about the first law. So there is an existing law that is not implemented at all. You announced in the first year of your term that you would make significant changes with him, nothing happened for 3 years. So they've been lost for three years. Now, then we're talking about this law, this bill of law. First of all, you've talked wonderfully about how the government predicted serious compensation measures, you mentioned... everything wonderful, wonderful, but it doesn't say anything in this law. This law says, and I'm reading the law that first, to implement this law, it won't need any extra funding. That's what it says. There is no explanation of what this law means, there is no single financial indicator of what the provisions of any of this law mean to the units of local self-government. In the text of the budget that we'll discuss the day after tomorrow everything you've been saying is not seen at all, it doesn't exist, it's towers in the air, it's false promises that have no basis in the texts, nor this law, nor the budget that I repeat, the day after tomorrow. So I really don't know what to think about the whole story. You talked about Slavonia, about the north, etc., at this time and..., at this time, the entrepreneur in Vukovar is in the exact same position as the entrepreneur in Zagreb. Is that what we want? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92469	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92470	I can get out of the place, right? Thank you. [[The incursion president: Yes, yes.]] So thank you for this debate because it just proves that you haven't read the law. Yeah, you didn't read the law. See this provision of Article 38 concerning the transitional period. But it also can't be written in the roof law of this kind of detail that I was talking about. Well, it's clear that these things are defined in other laws. And in the Law on the Financing of Local Units, which I also mentioned the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget in certain segments. And one more thing, do you remember the year of the debate, active, and more than a year, of this law? Well, just for the seriousness of the law, we didn't push it into an emergency procedure, but we let people talk about it and criticized and adopted many criticisms, and I didn't have time to tell you at all. Well, you remember the story about the planning areas that aren't there now because we said, okay, people, you're not going to plan areas, okay, they're not going to be. You see how we respected your opinion. So in some other segments, too. And another thing, the categorization of local self-government units began with the application of 01.01 this year, and the acts were passed in the previous year, so we didn't sit exactly as you say, but we were actively doing, and all of us were slowly bringing to this final stage, full of application of this law. Just remember, you've already discussed the application of the development index here, the new categorization on the application of measures for assisted areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92471	Thank you, Your Honor. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92472	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, your colleague, Minister Lalovac, has moved a billion dollars from what, if... about 450 million will be reunited into the state budget, that is, when you were talking about just waiting for the money to come, safe money into the budget. And the local self-government is unfortunately a little bit, so it's running out of normal, safe income, and it's kind of getting more and more dependent in the central state. And you here today when you were talking about the amendments to this law, that is, this law, you said that the government would actually be good, so local self-government will, on many grounds, get what it hasn't received so far. I don't think we've really put the good stuff on, like on the table, and that the indexation we're talking about is perhaps the starting point of which we should go, something that doesn't seem to be right, maybe there should be a little bit of a rush here and solve the question that really doesn't turn out to be Delnice, Chabar and some other parts of the developed region of the Republic of Croatia because Gorski Kotar, in the end of the day, is the most likely to scream at it, obviously people have the right. But I must warn you that you are violating Article 4(6) again. The European Charter of Local Self-Government as well as the Association of Cities, probably the Association of Municipalities and the Association of Countys is rebelling against this law and it is not okay, and it is especially wrong with those smaller urban areas where you said that smaller urban areas will be able to directly use European funds, and many cities are now falling out of the programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92473	Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92474	Here I would just like to repeat it very clearly once again, but the law has been passed, so it is now and clearly that this message is very clear. The government made a decision after weeks of considering the debate and also part of public, not officially, but unofficial public debates to at some point through tax breaks and changes in income taxation allow wage growth for more than a million Croatian citizens. Someone less, someone more, but objective growth pays. It costs, and it's clear to all of us that it costs and that someone has to pay for it. The government estimated that within three years, the government significantly reduced and cut certain costs in the state, and unfortunately, on this other side of the local self-government unit, that was not exactly the case. But also the government didn't say all billion, and 800 will go to the burden of local units, but she said we'll share that burden, but you need to do something on your part at local level to rationalize consumption a little bit. So it's not acceptable that in the same period that the government and the previous one, too, this one is struggling to keep its budget stable at all, how to pay pensions, salaries, etc. I'm not talking about a single unit. I'm talking about mass. I'm not talking about a single unit. So I think it's an unsatisfactory behavior. In a crisis we all have to squeeze and say here's what we did, that and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92475	Thank you very much. Third replica, the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92476	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. We read Plan 21 system built from top to bottom, not vice versa, solving problems in the local community should be left to local self-government, our goal is to increase the powers of local and regional self-government and their incomes, etc. Here you called yourself said about the need to pass this law by emergency procedure in the first and second readings today in the Croatian Parliament, it would be an office if it were to be in accordance with Regulation No. 1301/2013.that this law does not completely violate the standard so far in the last 20 years in the area of regional and local units of local self-government. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU in Article 176 states that "it gives special attention to regions exposed to serious, permanent, natural, demographic difficulties such as regions with low population density, island, border and mountainous regions". And then here you explained to us finally getting some index. Is your indecation appreciated by all these specialities when I talk about Gorski Kotar, about border areas, about the demographic situation in a way that all of these laws and your indication of the local self-government unit with 700, thousands of inhabitants are classified in the rank of large cities by the index of development? Example of Lokva in Gorski Kotar and Crikvenica which have the same development index 120. Here I'm talking about the justice of this system in a way that the units of local self-government took away the funds for normal functioning, that in the decentralisation you gave with all these laws you imposed on them powers over public fire departments, relative to pre-school education, in return for everything they had to do, and you took away their funds. And this indexation without the law that will definitely put their incomes... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92477	It's been a while, counselor. Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92478	So I have to say it and say it again, so I already said it from the pay phone earlier, indexation brought in the previous government of people. So don't tell me I just invented the development index, and you adopted it. And we said it's the best we have right now. Because you know how I look at it, as one system but a map tower where if one of those cards below you pull out of that development index system you're tearing down the whole system. And do you have anything better? If you can offer something better and we'll improve and improve in the next few years, I don't mind. But there's no other way, you know, and this isn't about taking money. This is a redistribution of money. Let me get this straight. So you see what's going on, these 100 units where they're mostly chiefs, for example. From HDZ probably, these 100 are waiting in silence to start the system and finally get some support through these measures and stand on the sidelines wisely. Of course, the ones who are going to lose a little, and that's normally one situation. So it's always louder for those who lose something than those who get it. And now there's nothing we can do about it. But I don't want to talk about individual units, I want to talk about the system unburdened by any political, local arguments, you understand. So I don't want to enter an individual unit, if I go into one of them and I say how their position changes then I have to choose the indices of development, etc., etc. And destroy the whole system. And that's not working, you know that well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92479	Honorable representative. ... Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The fourth replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92480	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, I read the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, not read but wrote it. And you in point 3 don't respect the fiscal responsibility law because what you've done makes an argument... the source of the necessary means to implement the law simply does not stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to even discuss this law, you had to indicate how much the provisions of the law cost and from which the funds will be settled. Why am I telling you this? I read both the budget and the proposal for 2015 from item to item and all of what you said, unfortunately, you don't have inside. The most interesting position at the Ministry of Finance is assistance to local self-government units in 2014. 349 million, 2015 ......... Hold on, hold on, don't run in front of the ore because you're gonna break your legs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So far, income tax returns have not been recorded in the budget, but is returning, just a little, please, but has been coming back from the beer bill, which amounted to 400 million. And now you've put your return into the budget. So what before it cost 400 plus 349 is 749 million, you've now put it in the 540 million budget, so 200 million less, that's just one position. Not to speak the Law on the financing of local self-government units. You took the cities and counties of 50 million kuna, because that part for decentralised functions was 12, now it's 6%. And if you had written all of this, all of these numbers here, then probably everyone would have discussed it differently. You see, you told your colleague Reiner that he hadn't read it, and I read it, so I couldn't find it. So please give respect to what this House has committed you to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, write... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92481	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92482	Here's my thanks for this, another opportunity to explain things. So this year never more transparent budget in this part of support to local units because it finally shows what's going on with them. So what's in the budget is two key components. It is a return of taxes to citizens, to local self-government units based on tax relief for citizens, which has not been shown so far. And the second is support based on compensation directly for those 65 units. And now that you count the number of units you'll get exactly to 329 as much as I said you'll enjoy the support in 2015. So there's no unknown. Plus we're still missing these 40 million that we're going to have to provide with some kind of amendment, hopefully these days, and then it's direct support to these units. As far as this moment is concerned, which you pointed out, that we've denied 750 million units, that's just not true. So, if you followed the draft law on funding that would come to the agenda a little later then you probably noticed that it was only from the fact that what is now going at a rate of 6% directly for decentralised functions and before it was 12% going now over the settlement fund. Why? I'll be very open to you why. Because some units, I'm not going to name them so far based on 12% she got directly into the budget more than they needed. When the Ministry of Finance asked for the return of that money to the state budget, they didn't give it up. They went to trial. And what's worse is they get in court and so the future won't be anymore. So the state will protect itself in that part if you understand me and I know it's very good. That's right. So there's no.../The speaker shut down./... the loss of money based...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92483	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. We're going to a new replica. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92484	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, in your statement, you said that whoever disagrees with this bill of yours would actually be against the population in Croatia. Well, I'd just like to tell you something, you see, for two years, it's been waiting for this law to come out, two years, and now at the beginning, and it's about the great failure of this bill of yours. And why is that? Because, among other things, you've made it more administratively complicated that something could be done under that law, it takes six councils to secure it, and we know very well when you don't really want something, then you set up some committees, councils, etc. Then, to not listen to the voice of the people, Mr Minister, you say this is in line with the European Commission, but you know very well that the European Commission is avoiding the way, so-called. From the bottom, from above, as you state in this law, means going from top to bottom, and in particular you need to go from below, listen to local self-government units, regionally, their demands to hear, respect their needs. From all this law, some county development strategies that really reflect the real development needs of the county will be current only in 2016. So do you think this whole thing doesn't talk about the government's slowness, lack of vision, simply about waking up and an emergency after two years of some winter dream? Ten days have a deadline for local self-government and regional government to manifest themselves in this matter. Do you think that's reasonable?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92485	Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Granko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92486	This law and this model that I have presented to you is based on listening to the voice of the people, so to speak to the public, these units of local self-government who have not received a swear of support for 20 years and who year after year struggle to close this budget year somehow. My message was clear, so I expect but I really expect all MPs in the House to support this new situation because it is more just because those who are truly poor and poor to say so enter the system, and those who are slightly richer and who have risen in these last 20 years of receiving some support through various measures to move out of the system. But to be clear, we are this 75% threshold, so it's not the threshold of development. The average development threshold is 100%, and since we still need to do a lot of work together on Croatia's development, it's not even 100% enough yet, nor can it be something we can live with, but we have established some kind of model and system that we would like to respect. Therefore, the message is primarily for us politicians in relation to the citizens of these units who need to enter the system, and for 20 years they have not received help, to take care of them, to support this law and these changes and to allow them to enjoy support for the next seven years at least, and to do something with this support for the development of their units. The total financial effect is 180 million kuna for these 100 units. Support that, let's give these people 180 million kunas a year to invest in development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92487	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92488	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you said you came to the Parliament with this law after a year of debate and preparation. I'm not sure what law you've explained, but if you've explained the bill we've received and we'll tell you that and you said that those who vote against him will vote against the citizens of those units. I'm not voting for this wrinkle you've prepared because he's in grave danger of digestive interference. If you were serious about proposing a lasting and fair solution of course that would then be a package of regional development, financing local self-government. That may be funny to you, but listen to me till the end. Both representatives and the public were given, for example, a list of 264 municipalities and cities of the 1st and 2nd groups of assisted areas in the assessment of the situation, which is 12 counties in the 1st group of assisted areas. You've been hiding it simply, only by searching for parliamentary deputies we've got to do it... because in the state description you haven't written a recapitulation of the increase, reduction or retention at the existing level, no right of local self-government under the provisions of this law. Whether 400 million kuna help from the title of income tax returns is contained in those 548 million in the state budget item for next year or not. If it's not then it's an increase of 238 million help, if it's a reduction. Profit tax and profit tax aid. What municipalities in Croatia have the headquarters of profit-making legal entities, and how much will this aid be? Nothing. The fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, as per the annual level in Croatia for those 264. So one data you weren't able to write in the state description.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92489	Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92490	So the adoption of this draft law in the Government on the same day has published a complete list of all units of local self-government with these materials. If you ask us to deliver this list immediately, you will get it on the table during this debate so that there are no problems about it, but I would like to say once again that list is publicly available and published on both the government's pages and on the Ministry of Regional Development pages. And one more thing, so I can understand, part of it I can understand that you call this what you said, "Chuspy." It's kind of a wrinkle because this isn't an autonomous law that can be read without other laws. Three more laws, mountaineering, PPDS and the Local Self-Government Units Act follow this law. And when I was speaking in the introduction, I was saying that it was a big package, and I specifically emphasized it, and to understand the whole system, you have to read it all and absorb it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92491	Thank God most Croatian citizens eat chalice, that's good. Next replica and distinguished representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92492	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. I can't look back on your ultimatum when you say that whoever doesn't vote for this law is against the people in the units of local self-government entering assisted areas. I can then turn the saw upside down and say that whoever votes for this law is against the people in the Gorski Kotar who come out of the assisted areas because after a new indexation all and one unit of local self-government from the Gorski Kotar, from the Primorje-Gorski County, they come out of the assisted areas. Why don't you come live in an oasis at 700 m above sea level, just 2 km from the highway as Prime Minister Milanovic says when it's so good there and so nice, when from the last census from 2001 to 2011 there are less than 3100 inhabitants. The development index you're talking about wasn't the courage to bring it. Well, maybe it was with those people who didn't bring that development index before you, so they didn't bring it in because that development index didn't look at all the aspects of the specificities of certain areas like altitude, relief, economic opportunities, climate, demographic imagery, and all the rest I could count. You mention he'll pass the Law on a special area of mountain-mounted mountain, I can't wait to see him on the benches and see how he'll be drawn up. But you say nothing happened and nothing came overnight. I say that the night lasts all the time in areas that have been in the areas of special state care and in the areas of mountain and mountainous areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92493	Thank you. Time's up. The replica matches Vice President Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92494	Thank you. So there's no ultimatum. What ultimatum? Who was talking about ultimatums here. I wasn't talking. I said it's very interesting how you're going to tell the citizens of those units that you won't support them getting into the system. Well, it's not an ultimatum, it's your political responsibility, people. Not yours, but all of us who are here today. We've clearly declared that for a change we're a system and that's what you mention courage. I wasn't talking about courage in this context of bringing up some development index. It's been brought before. I was talking about the courage to finally apply this model and this system and create a fairer system of support, state, units of local self-government. I stand firm behind my position and the government's position that this is now a fairer system, that there are no exceptions in it. There are and there will be, always will be. Respecting what you're talking about and absolutely respecting, so the wishes and specificities of the people of Gorski Kotar. That's what I had the chance to say in person. You were at that meeting too, right, and you heard what I was saying. But that's exactly why we have the opportunity to support such specificities through a special law and that's what we're going to do. That's what we promised. That's what we'll do next summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92495	A new replica of respected Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you spoke of Slavonia and of the constant pressure of the HDSSB and the Parliament, as well as of other structures of representative bodies and executive authorities, in order to say and here is the law on regional development. I have to say that those statistics that you put out among the 100 most underdeveloped municipalities according to the index of this development are actually underdeveloped, so the worst or the ones with the lowest index of development 60 is Slavonic. Of the 100 ones with the lowest index 60 is from Slavonia. Of the 100 most developed, Osijek crosses 101%, and everyone else is from some others, I'm not going to say which county. So there's not one Slavonic. Of 128 local administrations in Slavonia and Baranja 117 belongs to this undeveloped part. So below 75% of the development index. But we have been talking about this for 7 years in this House, and she has not listened to us either, but here you have in the last year of your term seem to have somehow come to some conclusion that would suggest that in fact Slavonia seems to be coming too late from these measures. Immigrants are huge, you know that and I'm afraid that the deceased is running an honorary circle, as well as municipalities in Slavonia and Baranja who are not and who are, which belong to the circle of development and those who are underdeveloped, are actually difficult to have a better chance of recovery after 20 years of neglect than all the authorities in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92497	The replica matches Vice President Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92498	Yes, you've all brought up the facts that stand. So, I don't have any objection to that, but I would still factor something out of your address, which is that this government is still, it doesn't matter when in office, that she did make this key step. And I know you're very supportive of this. I heard that from your circles directly. So now it's your political decision whether you raise your hand for this or not. But I know you're very supportive of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92499	New replica,...... Well, that's not how we're gonna have the vice president's argument. [[Greek's Intruder, he doesn't understand.]] The replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, it is the government's belief that, in fact, how can the government pass this law now even though it was passed in 2009. What I did not notice in the replicas of my colleagues actually, is that it is not noticeable that new institutional forms are being adopted by this law, which are partner councils. It was pre-planned areas, now urban anglomerations and regional coordinators who are actually legal persons, i.e. the administrative body established with the aim of effective coordination. That's definitely it. No one's actually talking about it today, and you should. These are new entanglements, these are new people and these are what I would say new divisions in our society, regional divisions in the way that will happen, where they will be seats, and all of this will actually be done under your stick, or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You said that some things had changed about the PPDS Act and about the hill-mounted area that had been passed 12 years ago, but we could have made certain adjustments to those laws along with the units of local self-government and we shouldn't have passed any new things, no new law. In fact, you forget how and what the Republic of Croatia looks like in the form of horseshoes, so when you go down from Konaval through Istria you get to Vukovar, you will see that these settlements are actually empty and this law will make it even more possible. I think you should take care of that. You should take care of yourself because you're concentrating actually on the state administration, and you should deconcentrate it and transfer it to local self-government units. And you forget the principle of subsidiarity, that the problem is solved where the Charter of Local Administration and Self-Government arises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92501	The replica corresponds to Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92502	So, as far as these bodies are concerned, let's get this straight. These are not administrative bodies that will look for new jobs and new positions. These are advisory bodies, these are councils where people can express their views and opinions through participation in these bodies and contribute to the development of development documents for these areas. So there's no extra costs other than travel expenses. I guess they'll have to meet sometime in Zadar, Zagreb, Karlovac or I don't know Osijek. So it's the only cost. As for this second section you mentioned that we could go with the corrections of existing laws. Just try to count, get out of history how many times these laws have been changed. When you change some laws so many times they can no longer simply be consistent, coherent and only like this one roof law with one new division can bring something new to regional politics in Croatia. And one more thing, when you look at the units of local self-government in this ring of Croatian horseshoes belonging to these areas, then you will really see that these are the units that deserve it the most and in the areas that deserve it the most. And we all know more or less what space this is, than our Zagora Dalmatian, so through this part I don't know Lika, Bani, Kordun, so Slavonia. It's this ring that's been constantly from the old state always treated as an underdeveloped part and today is and whatever we do is good to do for those parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92503	A new replica, respected Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to commending that we have a law that will redistribute means incentives in a fairer way than it was boredom. And of course we'll all support it. However, I may be a little bored by now, but I must report on the topic of one area in the Republic of Croatia, which so far has had one special status until this proposal of the law, which is mountainous and mountainous areas. But it does not specifically mean that the law that covered a whole series of units of local self-government which, for some probably undeserved years, received very great incentives rather than in the narrow sense of the Gorski Kotar. You said today, or today you promised to keep the Law on the mountainous and mountainous area even though it was, in fact, proposed by this Regional Development Act, it was actually dropped and all those units in the Gorski Kotar were above 75% of the development index. I believe that we could have done something to pass this law or to propose this law to revise the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and that these 10 to 15 units of local self-government where we have settlements with living people above 600, 700 meters above sea level. I'll give you a brief illustration I'm this morning, the Gorski Kotar is an island, and the island law we've kept. I left Rijeka, 9 degrees and sunny, passed through Tuhobiæ 0 degrees, fog, 60 km per hour. We've come to Vrbovska, 5 degrees and 100 kilometers an hour because there's no fog. So, the mountain cotter is an island. I think we could have done and we still have time to do something for those units of local self-government because they are inside the Croatian island.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92505	The replica is answered by the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92506	Yeah, I understand, and I'm saying, here's what we're talking about. The assessment was that this compensation, which awaits the end in 2015, is still as significant and greater than it would possibly now be by some quick process of adopting a new law. We better catch these 5, 6 months ahead of us to consider new measures for mountainous and mountainous areas, and during that period these units will receive compensation from the budget and hopefully cover the largest part of these costs that they have previously financed from these aids. So we get a quiet period and one time we can say here's a cold head to bring in a new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. That is what we have come to that conclusion in our debate together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92507	Replica, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned an example, an example of my city, Leprechaun, in your explanation of the Regional Development Act, and I would still like to update your explanation in such a way as you yourself said that with the assistance and support provided for in the budget, it is nevertheless a great help compared to before. Yes, but you only mentioned the first year of help where the amount is 4 million and 170 thousand kuna, but it is again less than 2.5 million kuna than the reference year 2013. Already in 2016, this reduction is from support of 2 million 800, where the total reduction is already 3.5 million kuna. And the last year is support of a million and 900 where the total reduction is almost 5 million kuna. And when you look at the total decrease compared to 2013 it's a reduction of $ 6.5 million, which makes up 50%, or almost double the starting year. A reduction of 50% of the budget can't say that one loses something small, if we lose 5% of something you already have an absolute crisis and a problem how to make that part, above all, a development component that is an integral part of one development, must first define and yet at the beginning of a good start, there must be a measure to compensate for the good part of such great losses in a particular area. When we talk about the fact that the development index is not 100 or 120%, but the development index of the City of Lepoglava is 76.9%, just 1.9% higher than the assisted area, it doesn't mean that we are now overnight at once rich. What is the most important indicator that average income... in the production of budget revenues is 825 kuna, which is 22.5% of the average of the Republic of Croatia [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what it says we should... [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92509	The replica corresponds to Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92510	Yes, I mentioned you in the context of these figures, compensation. Maybe it's better if I mentioned you in the other part where you're a living example of how that money can be compensated. Very much, we were in Lepoglava, we saw you on the spot, you are one of the most successful mayors in attracting the EU funds of these pre-accession so far, I hope you will continue with this dynamic in the next period and I congratulate you on that. It's a model by which they should function in the next period because the possibilities are huge, one 7.8 times more financially than in the time you've realized your projects. So, he would still like that part of the story to be passed on to both the public and, of course, to his colleagues. I know there are other successful mayors and mayors in Croatia, but you must be one of them who did great. This is the way, which is why your budget is when we look at total and not original revenues much bigger than what you have just mentioned thanks to the fact that you have managed to realise the EU project. Make it a model for all of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92511	Replica Branko Vuksic. He's gone. Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, one of the main tasks of you as Minister of Regional Development is the regional and even development of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that we share the same opinion that there is no such development nor even regional development without strong local, or regional or regional self-government. Evidence of this is a number of developed EU countries where local, regional self-government is strong because distribution of public funds is wherever and where fairer than in Croatia. in Croatia until today, until we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, this distribution was 16% of the total public funds directed towards local self-government. As of today, since this morning or January 1st, when the law will enter into force, the percentage of regional, or local self-government will fall to 14%. If we look at it in the time frame of 7 years that is needed for the implementation of European policies by this morning's law, you are the one who gave consent to the Minister of Regional Development and the Deputy Prime Minister in a certain way and supported that local, regional self-government will be left without 2 billion euros. And no compensatory measures you mention can be compensated. Why 15 billion? Because about 2 billion and 200 million kunas were taken by local self-government. With compensatory measures, it may be possible to make up for 400 million kuna but no more. And you're defending it between yourself and your reply to the replica that this government and the past government have done everything and that the state has quite reduced its expenditures, that it's tightened its belt. Until the local self-government did, but you did not say that by the same law, when you take the local self-government and the area annually 2 billion, you added 500 million kuna to the state budget by virtue of the law, or the introduction of interest taxes. So, on the one hand, you increase the state budget by 500 million kuna for interest, and on the other hand, you poverty the regional or regional self-government and there is no development, nor even even even.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92513	Time. Thank you very much. The reply corresponds to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92514	I will repeat once again, a political decision at a moment in a macroeconomic situation that supports the personal consumption of citizens and raise wages by over a million citizens. Divide the burden of this cost from a billion and a sixth, up to a billion and eight hundred million kunas between the state and local self-government, which means that the figures for local self-government are somewhat less in terms of loss because we have foreseen certain compensations that will be incorporated into the Finance Act which is now fourth in a row here on the agenda, so you will probably hear the details there. But the share of income tax units, 300 and some million kunas of interest tax goes to local self-government, increases the share of local self-government in the share of real estate tax. There will be some new solutions, and I don't know if I've forgotten anything else. And I agree, it won't have the same effect on all units. Some have real estate and traffic, and some don't. So these more attractive places where this traffic is still somehow going to have some income from it, others won't. I agree in that part, so it won't be linear, but some compensation will be. We're moving within the potential, I've heard some more proposals for compensation, but there's always a question if there's something else that the state needs to give up now and leave to local self-government, so where are we going to find that money, how are we going to close the costs of the state? So we need to be realistic and that is our reality that we live in a time of crisis, when GDP starts to grow and when tax revenues and others grow at both national and local level will be much easier to manage. It's what it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92515	Replica, dear Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92516	Thank you. Here, dear Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to say that this proposed legal solution to our calculations, approximately 13,000 citizens and citizens of Istria want to experience and not a small drop in living standards. The IDS does not ask for Istria to be given anything, but that part of the income that these citizens in the area and accomplish, to be achieved in most parts, and to leave them at least the level of standards they have today, and believe me, that does not mean anything luxurious. So next, I'd like to ask you to pay attention to the amendments we want to make on behalf of the IDS Club and I'd like to ask you to stop with one practice on the other hand when it comes to the irresponsibility of local self-government units. As a result, I would just like to tell you that since the very beginning of the crisis, since the end of 2008, the vast majority of the local self-government unit leaders, regardless of what political option they belong to, have been acting very responsibly, have reduced their wages, cut as much as they could spend, and these changes to the law de facto of the local self-government unit are slowly starting to fall to their knees. So I ask you to really consider the amendments to the IDS with all due care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92517	The replica matches Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92518	Thank you. I don't have anything special to say, except that I'm sure I'll consider your amendments and see what's real, what we can and can't do. So, I'm not, either, and I hope I'm not, because that's not my way of communication saying that local self-government is irresponsible, but I mentioned a very indicative fact that in times of crisis, the number of employees and salaries in local self-government in Croatia, not in Istria, not in one unit, but globally, according to the Ministry of Finance, has increased between 15% of the number of employees and 30% of the salary. And the salary average in local self-government is 30% higher than the average salary in Croatia. That's what he's saying. So, if there were maybe some reserves to get a little tight in there... and that, uh, trying to save some money and on, I'd say first of all stopping further employment while this crisis is going on and available with existing capacities. Here, so that's just one example, you can probably save in other segments. The State was saving on these other items, from material expenditure to capital investments. Unfortunately, capital investment without substitution with EU funds, space will be all narrow and so my messages are not what I heard, demagogues, no, they're real. So we have the money, we just need to know how to use it. And we can't just get it for liquidity, but for projects, and to get it for projects, we have to have projects. So it's completely, like, a change in one... so one approach to turning towards projects and towards EU funds. We just have to do it together. Together, I stress, not you, but together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92519	A new replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's nice to hear the help of the least developed or undeveloped so, in particular, the balanced development of Croatia, it's all nice, but I'm not really optimistic here, because it's kind of a common denominator that's taken up where there is, and it's offered something there, part of something that's not there. There's a part of what's not there. And as we're all thinking here locally, and I'm going to try to explain this from my local level. In my county, in the part where I come from, so based on income tax, we've lost so much, but we're where the biggest hydrocarbon exploitation is done, based on the government's regulation, we've lost almost 30% of our income based on the hydrocarbon exploitation fee, that's what it stands for. And look at the situation now. Now in that part we have lost, and on the other hand we are offered as a compensatory measure, so proceeds from tickets to the Nature Park Mura-Drava. Let's say, that's part of it. And the second part is said not to talk about profit tax, these are negligible fees, but in article 44, the fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials for the production of construction material. Oh, please, well, there's only one building material being exploited in my county, how you're going to exploit it in this nature park, please, it doesn't stand. And there aren't any of those hydrocarbons that, so say it simply, nicely, here's 50% of the municipalities, 50% of the county and the thing solved. This way I can't get the impression that these gifts of yours that you've been talking about have been coming down a lot, they're incredibly reminiscing about that song, "He brought her a gift from the heart, but he didn't give it to her." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92521	Replication response, Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92522	Here, a specific question, I will try to answer from the post of Deputy Prime Minister because this segment is entering the Ministry of Economy. As far as I know, the Hydrocarbons Act already defines the ratios of the share of concession income, right? And you're already getting a cut. ... You lost it on the part. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, this story of compensation through a change in the concession system again returns to the question of concession revenues to hydrocarbon exploitation, which means that you can expect new changes in favour of units of local and regional self-government. At least that's what they told me at the Ministry of Economy, here I am, transferring and building myself slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92523	A new replica, dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92524	I'm going to refer to something more or less everyone mentioned here. It is not true that one who will not support this law is not true that one who will not support the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area vote against local units as mentioned in Slavonia. We can then inversion to the fact that whoever supports this set of laws will vote against those units that will remain without certain revenue in their budgets, means against one Buzet with 6,133 inhabitants, against one Lanisce, against Cerovjev, against Gračišin, against Grokžnjan, against Oprtlje, Motovun or Lupoglava. I would even agree with those who say that maybe it's not the point at this point whether something will lose the state, whether something will lose local self-government. The bottom line is how many citizens will lose in those local self-government units through tax returns, is how much they will lose the economy in those units. And now what I do, for example. These are the criteria, we have here a Lannister who fell on 329 inhabitants and now I'm looking at these tables, average income in Lannister 25,878 kuna, and in Funtana not far from Porec or Vrsar or anyway or halfway between Poreč and Vrsar 21.793 kuna. What's that? It's just that a man can't understand. And on the other hand, I'm asking myself if one of you is Mr. Vice President, is the Prime Minister, has any minister ever been to Lannister to see simply how people live in that area. And I say clearly that Vukovar needs everything, needs help, but it's actually an Istrian Vukovar. And what I would also like to know is whether Minister Lorencin is, for example, In time raised your hand for this set of laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92525	Time. The reply to the replica of Vice President Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92526	I don't know if Minister Lorencin raised his hand. I guess he didn't point out that he was against, I don't know, I didn't notice that he said he was against it. As for these remarks of yours and those first thesis that has already appeared for the second time, and why wouldn't these be against which they think someone is going to lose by this law, I would agree with you if there were not one key problem and argument. Those who enter the system are indeed poor, indeed at the bottom of this 550-unit scale as many units as there are in Croatia and indeed in areas that are generally less developed, poorer, etc., etc. And those who go out have achieved something in the last 10, 15, 20 years through this support, so they've invested a little bit in roads, in waterways, in schools, in kindergartens in this thing and they've raised the standard of service they provide to their citizens simply because they had some money, and they didn't have anything and there's this catch. We must allow what a member of the HDSSB also mentioned just before, we must allow, regardless of that injustice, 20 years to begin at least now a process in which these units will be able to get some kuna more and invest in their own development. Well it's never too late to fix the system and make it fairer and better, it's a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92527	17 replicas of Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92528	Thank you. Since it is said that the law will enter into force in 1.1, it will surely take another year for all assumptions to be reached and that, in full proportion to 1.1.2016, it will start to apply. I wanted to draw attention to page 14 of this article, among other things, the strategy for the development of urban areas, paragraph 5, says "The urban area strategy referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is adopted by a representative body which was the holder of its production", and is now said "with the previously obtained opinion of all units of local self-government in that area". I think that this may not be fully defined for the reason that units of local self-government are not provided in a more concrete way that their opinion will be mandatory, so urban areas that adopt strategies will necessarily have to adopt the opinion of these local units. Knowing the way of co-operation between local self-government and the difference in party colors, to put it that way, I'm not sure whether it will be in these steps of the problem that some local self-government will not be able to do so or that their opinion will not be taken into account until the end. I don't know if there was any thought that urban areas or representative bodies of these urban areas must also bring such a strategy to an ordinary but two-thirds majority in their representative bodies. I don't know how to find the right solution for these local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92529	The reply to the replica of Vice President Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92530	Let me answer that. Thank you for your comment. Since this really is one newspaper we didn't want to overcomplicate this... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92531	Just a little bit, Deputy. The replica wasn't sent to you, so you can't answer it. He can answer the vice president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92532	You're partly right. Whenever there is a disagreement of political structures between neighbours or between the city, for instance and the county, there is always a problem. And I really expect problems here too. But if the approach to this whole agglomeration, or for that urban area, means the possibility of more and again talking as in this little before, so who can be against, or who can be against, but who can be against if it brings him the possibility of then running for special funds and special funds, I said 5% of the Regional Development Fund is cca. 300 million euros in seven years. 300 million euros is not small money, it is 2.5 billion kuna for urban areas only. So if you want to have the opportunity to use these funds and of course you're going to push your council members to accept, to be part of it, I don't know what to call it, it's called the urban area, but with the purpose of planning projects together, here's the point, is that, well, it's not some new administrative creation. It's just a deal between the units, the neighbors that will realize I don't know, the waterway, the road, the bridge or I don't know anything else that will improve communication and the quality of life. So here's what I'm saying if we look at it purely administratively, we can expect problems. And if reason prevails and this is considered an opportunity, I don't expect problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92533	A new replica of the esteemed Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92534	Thank you. So I would refer to only one part of what you said and as far as this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area is concerned, you said that there will remain compensation, but in the proposal for a Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area it says that these compensations will be made through the Regional Development Act, so that's one thing. And secondly, they'll still be without that funding for a year until it's over. No one here is against the undeveloped getting, but I think it's against those who have been able to achieve some part of the development so far to take them away because they're going to fall down again. As you said, it's never too late that bad, therefore, the rule that's been changed for the better but it's also worth the golden rule that what was good don't go to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92535	The answer to Branko Grcic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92536	So these fees, compensations are seen in the budget and are based on the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. So once again, the whole story is about the legal basis quite complex because it breaks over multiple legal acts. So the law on execution in that year defines the legal basis for the payment of compensation for compensation for the reduced incomes. So I don't see the problem here. And the numbers, the figures are in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92537	The Republic of esteemed Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92538	Your Honor, Vice President. Croatia said you have a fair distribution, then we from Lika-Senj County speak... For you, Lord, keep us from these new righteous divisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because all we have left is all the institutions of the state in Lika-Senj County diocese. Employment services, Institute for Violation, Croatian Insurance, Customs, Agricultural Agency, Croatian Post Office, do you want to move on? Croatia's forests, the court, the INA, look out for me -20 and meters of snow we have to go to the lodge oil in Rijeka or Zadar, FINA, Croatian roads, all of this has been lifted by such a policy of this government this new, new Regional Development Act is just a continuation of such a policy of the new government. And with this new government policy, we've come to the conclusion that 30% less students are enrolled at the university. The Bishop, fortunately, cannot be lifted from us. Now, Slavonia has 95 municipalities that will be supported, I see in Istria 13%, 13 thousand people are hit by a worse standard and in Lika-Senj County you watch the data now, there is no county that is more damaged. 96% of the municipalities and cities lose support of this new law, we have survived the difficult times. Don't be mad. 50 years ago and before the Homeland War in Lika, we were 200 thousand, then came the policy of regional development of totalitarian communism which, with 200 thousand, brought us now to 50 and some thousands. It seems to me that this policy of regional development is similar only at a time of communism has included liquidation and here it is not. This way, these I said well, at the time of Communism there's a liquidation involved and with this law it's not [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] But through this relationship with Lika-Senj County, you will liquidate us. [[/Intruder: Your time is up. Time.]] There won't be any of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92539	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92540	I wouldn't go into this reorganisation of the state service right now, I can't really get into it because it's what some other fellow ministers did, so I don't know the details. So as far as this law is concerned, here, 6 units as far as I can see are coming out of the system because they have indices in this index that I am stressing again the HDZ government has constructed and brought and adopted. 88.66 one municipality is 111.87, 92.15, 86.66 and only one is 78.66, so only one is near this border. I can't do anything about it, I told everyone at the beginning equal to border 75, to everyone equally. And someone got, someone lost, but that's it. And again, I point out and you see, here I am here to consult a little bit just as you did, consulting my colleague, Jackshaw, because he's running that part of the EU story in our ministry. For example, for Gospić County, the Lika-Senj County has launched a programme with the UNDP to prepare EU funding projects, as a pilot project in three counties, one of them is very Lika-Senjska because we have calculated that there really needs help. Let's just say your agency isn't as active as in other counties, there's a problem. Let's compensate this loss through the projects. You are ideal for such a kind of help for such projects because you have every assumption that you will be well scored in the score and that your projects will be at the head of the list of selected projects. So let's change the approach, what I've already said, but here you can't make anything, see what the indices are like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92541	Last line, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92542	Thank you very much. So in your presentation you mentioned great potential and you often mention this here in these replicas of funding from the European Union funds and funds. In the Partnership Agreement, of course, you are right, thanks to membership in the European Union over 10 billion euros for 4-5 years, so for 5 years because 2014 is up. And you said you couldn't do it all by yourself, but what you could do, and what you had to do was prepare the whole base so that the funds could be applied. The other day I asked you both your deputy and asked you again, so when will the papers, operational programs, rural development be prepared? When will the contest be opened, and when will the rules be known? Without that, you are invited by entrepreneurs who are eager to start calling. So at this point, there are no known rules, and you're talking about taking responsibility. It will. Second, you asked a question, or you determined who would be competitive if you took a chance and had a chance to withdraw 40% of the funds. Well, they'll all be the other ones who've been competitive from our economy so far. Why, because entrepreneurs from Austria, Italy, Germany, Denmark, also withdraw from Poland 40, 50, 60% but pay 1.2% interest for their component. How we will again be competitive with 7, 8 or 9% interest on that part, and besides where that capital is and where are these guarantees that will be further banks and what in that sense you are doing to ensure not only local co-financing units but also to help that part of the entrepreneurs who will report to these funds, and we are all aware of the level of capitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92543	Replication response, Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92544	To answer this, even if two minutes isn't enough. So first, the policy so far is 80% of the financing of income investments, 20% possibly from other sources, so that's what you see in the budget. Second, leverage, most important term. So European funds are leverage, they bind additional funds and additional investments to themselves. At 8 billion kuna in the budget, I expect that the investments will be at least 11. The largest leverage is in entrepreneurship, so in the private sector where we are therefore in view of the maximum funding of up to 45% of the investment is immediately certain that the total investment will be not a billion but 2 and 200, 2 and 300, 2 and 400, depending on where the investment is realised. For our own private sector, we have secured a relatively cheap HBOR loan. This is where we promoted eo two weeks ago at a special press conference, meaning both for local self-government units and for the private sector for co-financing of eu projects. Yeah. So for now there's about 200 million which isn't enough of course, but we're going to increase that amount depending on the interest and how it all goes together. What else was I supposed to say? ... Rural, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, all these tenders go without the fact that operational programmes have not yet been accepted because the costs are legitimate as said since 1.1.2014. The competition for entrepreneurship goes to the end of the year, the longest in January. That's about 750 million kunas from the eu funds somewhere. Rural development operates on the basis of measures from the preceding pre-accession period because it is a regulatory eu that regulates it in the lag. So it's not Croatia's fault. And just one more thing, our two operational programmes are about to be accepted, and by the end of the year only 50% of the 170 total number of operational programmes in Europe will be accepted. Europe is late, you must know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92545	Now we're done with the replicas at the opening exhibition. I ask if the committee's representatives will take the floor, the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Ronko, the Committee on Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92546	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with an associate. At its 39th session, held on 21 November this year, the Proposal for a Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, with the final proposal for a law as an interested working body. The opening statement pointed out that the proposed law adapts the national and legislative framework to the guidelines of the cohesion policy of the European Union, that it is a basis for the adoption of the Urban Development Strategy and that this is a preparation for the use of the European Union funds in the financial period 2014-2020. The proposed law regulates the possibility for less developed areas to use EU funds more successfully as a source of investment financing in their units of local and regional self-government, especially in assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities. The law introduces a permanent measure of the responsibility of the Regional Development Ministry to ensure the resources to co-finance the preparation and implementation of projects in line with budgetary opportunities in areas which are most lagging behind the EU average according to the level of development. The proposed legislative text aims to reduce regional inequalities to investments in less developed areas and areas with developmental specificities. The need for stronger efforts to capitalise on EU funds aimed at areas that are most lagging behind the EU average according to the level of development. Emphasising the need to strengthen the competitiveness of regional units, it points out the conditions for withdrawing funds from the European Regional Development Fund for urban areas. Since they are organized as urban anglomerations with centres in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, it is noted that cities such as Zadar, Varazdin, Sibenik, Brod, Pula, and so on are included. On the basis of the model for assessing the level of development, the proposed law lays down assisted areas and points out that other parameters and criteria such as depopulation areas or traffic isolation of a given area should be taken into account in the law. The debate also highlighted a large number of local self-government units lagging behind the national average of the Republic of Croatia. It is noted that on the basis of the criteria set out in the proposed law and the procedure previously implemented to assess the degree of development of many units of local self-government will be included in the assisted areas as long as the injustice lasts too long. This was the reason for the depopulation of these regions, and it is expressed concern that they might remain in the future in the event of non-compliance. The Ministry of Regional Development should assist local self-government units in selecting and preparing projects to apply for EU funds, and to make the process objective and public. An explanation has been requested to determine the transitional period for those units of local and regional self-government for which, in the year before the start of the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union, it is established that they do not meet the conditions for maintaining the status of the assisted area. So, after the debate was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament decided to vote mostly, 6 for and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92547	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Cain will speak, and after him, Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92548	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister once more. Those who do not vote in favour of this Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia or the one after that on the mountainous and mountainous area will not be against those local units that will thus profit something whether they are located in Dalmatia, whether they are located in Slavonia or vice versa. Those who will vote for the law will not be against one Buzet, Lanisce, Cerovlja, Gračisa, Grožnjana, Oprlje, I do not know Motovun etc. I agree that, the local self-government will surely suffer a huge blow. But even more important than the local self-government itself, how much money will be lost by citizens through tax returns, or how much they will lose our economy. Yes, and that should be said, Croatia is certainly in one serious crisis, and it is certainly the whole structure that needs to be reformed in some way. And unfortunately, I'm convinced, I'd like to be wrong so soon we won't recover in 2015 and in 2016 I'd say whoever gets it and then that year 2015 just follows a sobering. Here these euro funds are constantly mentioned, and here we are constantly calling for Europe. I am not a Eurosceptic, but once again I will say that the benefit in the first year of Europe is Croatia or Croatia is extremely small, I would almost dare say that it is none. And I dare say that no country has suffered damages as Croatia has suffered by entering the EU. Why do I claim and why do I perform so radically? From 1.7.2013 to 1.7.2014 we paid 537m euros to Brussels. We pulled 575 million euros plus 38. But what's the worst? What our priorities in these areas were for Brussels. Of these 575 million euros, only IPA 1 and this is the nuclear security and membership fees that remain directly with them, it went from 570 million euros to 160 million euros for cross-border cooperation, we withdrew 10.8 million kuna, for transport 58.9 million kuna, for environmental protection 59 million kuna, for regional competitiveness 38, for the development of human potentials 44 and IPA 5 rural development of as much as 44.8 million euros. I would even dare say that Europe financed itself through our resources this first year, not us. The county of Istria for regional competitiveness of 38 million draws 0.8%, for the development of human potentials only 2.74%, for rural development 11.7%, for cross-border co-operation of 200 000 euros, for transport of zeros and for all the happiness that Croatia's waters have directed along with Kastijun 67m euros the way of Istria. What we also see in Europe is actually insulting when some euro-parliamentaries, for example. I don't know Hypo banks in Pula, and when a man sees it, he can just get over it. What exactly are we talking about here in this law? Just for a little while. It should reduce regional inequalities through specific interventions aimed exclusively at less developed areas, etc., etc. Not to quote this whole paragraph. Not once I was here in the assembly, and just before, I mentioned Laniste, but also Oprtalj and Graćiće and Grožnjan and Motovun and Cerovlje and Lupoglav and my Buzet where 6133 people live today, and there in '50. There were about 14,000 people living in Buzet. In one Lannister if I'm not wrong in 1910, about 4800 people. Clearly, as small municipalities formed, something fell on the Municipality of Lanisce where 329 people live today, something on Livade, on Toplice or Oprtalj up etc., etc. But 50% of the population goes the way of Italy, the road of Rijeka, the road of the west coast of Istria or Pula. Where are they going? They're going to work. After World War II, everything was fueled, at least worse with us, destroyed, after '47, '54. The status of Istria is resolved. That's where this Zone A, Zone B. The system is being resolved, established only by... the agreements of the '70s. The space leaves more than 140 thousand people in that period, and surely that Bible pogrom I do not know is an exodus with 17,000 sacred sacrifices that Istria has lost for the war that struck Istria terribly or most painfully. That's why it hurts me too, and here it's also about rationalizing local self-government. And there's something I need to talk to you about. The day before yesterday, the guys were just pulling out information about how much a party is organized in Istria in a year. Between 300 and 500, 30 to 50 million kuna. We have everything, a festival of little snails, pasta, to a festival of vampires. Only for the feast of the paste 252 thousand 527 kuna in one Zminj. And there they included the PR agencies 40 thousand kuna, even now we have a pancakes party in seven days by the same form where the PR will draw 40, 50 thousand kuna. It just doesn't work. What hurts me the most, however, when hundreds and hundreds of hectares simply go to the hands of officials who were to be held publicly as their own. And I always ask myself what my mother would say if I came home and said listen or... one five acres of agricultural land there for 5, 10,000 euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I urbanized it and now I've sold it for 5 or 10 million euros. Well, she'd probably say don't come to the funeral either. But it's just done and it can't do that. And that's why I'm saying that local self-government should be rationalized. 576 units are absurd, should be monitored. But the gods and the state need to be decentralized and radically regionalized. It doesn't make sense that in the beginning of the crisis we increase the number of employees by 7,000 so I don't tell you how many are in Istria. Local revenues are 21.9 billion kuna, the state's original income before we voted for a rebalancing of the 114 billion kuna. I'm glad that this law will make a small profit on Slavonia, but I'm also going to say that it will simply lose that very continent of Istria, that central Istria, that inner Istria, or I don't know how to simply call it. It is also clear that certain leaders simply dared to touch and pay, which did not belong to them, and that I did not say in everything else that should not have been questioned or abused in any way. Everything in everything hurts this law. I know how much I fought for him there in 2002, and I can't unfortunately raise my hand for the same, and I'm sure that the standard of that continent of Istria is going to say very much that we're going to lose to the standard itself. Although that is true, the standard of the citizens of Buzet cannot be compared to the standard of citizens in Slavonia or somewhere in the Dalmatian background. You can't compare Gračišje's standard to them or I don't know one Lupoglav, Motovun, so I don't keep counting. We had no war, 80% of Istria is de facto at 10 or 80% of the Istrian population is 10 km from the sea, close to the border, built infrastructure etc., etc. But once again, please keep an eye on those municipalities, mostly one of the Lannisters, because they will suffer enormous damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92549	You left five minutes to your colleague, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92550	Okay, well, I'll try to make it quick for the little time I have left, but that's the deal. I'd like to talk about two things. Maybe we should continue in that tone that Mr. Cain spoke in. I come from Baranja and I will support this law, I am extremely looking forward to that after a long time we may be able to catch the connection, the connection with the rest of Croatia. Because there are settlements where there is no water, there are settlements where there are no roads. The other day you were witnessing a media campaign, kids had nothing to eat at school. Yes, children have nothing to eat at school, my lords. After World War I, after World War II, during the Austro-Hungarian monarchy Baranja was a pantry of Europe. Today that pantry has dried up, today there's nothing in that pantry, the young go away, they run wherever they get. It's a real situation today in Baranja. There's no jobs, the industry's ruined, and the country's out for the bogeyman. You need to pass the white monastery, you need to pass in the Torians, say, the New Bezdan, etc. In those neighborhoods where there's nothing, there's no store, there's no bureaucrats anymore, there's no social home, there's nothing. The only chance, one way to catch the connection, are either EU funds either in a way or in a certain way to help the state. And then we can compare those areas with other areas in the Republic of Croatia. I remember when I was a kid, in the '60s people came along, some weird people in the afternoon with backpacks on their backs, brought figs, dried plums, lawns there, something like that. Needles, and traded it for corn. There's no more, there's no more to replace with, the peasant has fallen on his feet and the story is slowly closing. Another thing I would like to talk about is about urban areas, Article 14 paragraph 6 says: "That fewer urban areas are cities that, according to the last census, have fewer than 35,000 inhabitants, whose centres have more than 15,000 inhabitants." Baranja is a natural geographical, socially geographically rounded whole bounded by Drava, and limited by the Danube and in the north with the Hungarian border and it has been functioning for the past hundred years. The White Manastir was always the center of it, the White Manastir was an urban unit where people came to do all their work. Thanks to the policy that has been going on, thanks to the events that have taken place in the last 20, 25 years in the White monastery, and not only in Bela Manastir, but in Baranja 8 units of local self-government were formed, and with the City of Beli Manastir, almost everyone begins to lead or lead their own policies. We know what the situation is, in one unit are in power, in the other are in power, etc. and more or less everyone takes care of themselves which is perfectly normal. I think that this article should change because if we're talking about naturally geographically of some kind of whole then, or some factors that form the urban area, then we can't base ourselves on just saying a certain number of people. It can't be the dominant number of people, it didn't work out that way anywhere. There were some systems that used to speak I don't know in France, so they say the city will be all that's over 5,000 inhabitants, and what's 4999 is going to be a village. If we apply that model here, I think we're going to do further damage to Baranja, the Baranjas, and there's not going to be any major progress. For this reason, I ask that, that article of the 14th article is modified in a certain way, to respect these natural geographical factors, and that this urban whole or that urban area can be applied in a quality way to European funds, so that if it remains so I do not think we will obtain those results that we could obtain as a border region, as an area that has good relations with the Republic of Hungary, as an area that is located directly or on the other side of Serbia and Bosnia is extremely close and all these areas can then collectively replicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92551	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas now. First three replicas to the respected Damir Caine. The first one will be carried out by Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92552	When you spoke about what happened in Istria in 45, 47, 54, then each word must weigh because it then left that part of the number of people we don't even know how accurate it is. And demographics were working for the system then, for the system and exaggeration were on all sides. So and... He's already exaggerating when he narrows it down to 140 grand, so most likely Tito was exaggerating on the other side when he... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when he talked about $350,000 in a famous speech he gave in Montenegro. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, we don't know how many people have gone, and I'm so surprised that Mr. Cain is constantly beating that 140, 140, 140, and the other figures he's quoted, always one of those same figures. And in the end these people didn't leave, but let's say they had to leave and we all know what it means when we say they had to leave. After every war, people must leave the country, and that must leave the country always means that they are somehow expelled. Because no one leaves their house, their field because it is, because it will. They left for two reasons, one reason was national and another reason was political because the Italians left the most, and the Croats left.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92553	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92554	I'm sure about this tragedy that is affecting Istria or you're not looking at that tragedy any different than I am, nor am I looking at it any different from you, Mr Furio Radin. I'm talking about how many people leave Istria during that period of post-revolutional primitiveism after the first, second exodus, I'm talking about 140 grand. When I talk about the number when we mention Croatia, it's 186,000, and when I talk about Yugoslavia, somewhere around 225. No one, I agree, leaves their house, no one leaves their property for which generations and generations have worked. But I know who's taking over those houses today and... But I do know that today many simply move into these houses and grab what should be simply sacred. And that's what we have to fight. And that's why you need to get up. People take palaces for a few thousand marks. So where's that? People take dozens of acres that are then urbanized by the president of the IDS, the Honorary, through the president of the branch community... not to mention everyone else. 50 officials in Istria weigh 2m euros, how? In a way that they publicly translated into private. You can't feel that problem any different from me because mine They also participated, but on the side that was killed. [[Stazić: Please, no throwing.]] And where they were yours, about that second chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92555	Second replica, the esteemed Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Caine, you said that Croatia is the only country that has actually benefited not from joining the EU but the damages that can be partly agreed on, but it is another reflection of the government's inability to apply to EU funds in the way that we all expected, regardless of the position or opposition. But when we talk about the application of individual counties to EU funds, I am sorry that there is no Vice President of Greece, here we have applied from the County of Lika-Senjska one... development centre and watch out for the reasons why we were not adopted, in fact why it was rejected, because we have too few inhabitants compared to the total number of population of the Republic of Croatia. I note, too, that projects were sometimes specifically called upon with specific criteria for the area of special state care or underdeveloped areas. In this way, the rejection of projects as I mentioned this development centre project in Lika-Senjska County, again, I say, not that there will be 50 thousand of us, but there will be twice as many of us. With this bill, someone mentioned that 13,000 people in the Istrian county were affected, that they would live by a bad standard, in Licko-Senj County it is 50,000 citizens. If it were equivalent to Istrian County, it would mean that in Istria County, if they made equivalent to Lika-Senj County, 195 thousand citizens would be affected. Mr. Grcic says that these funds we've had so far are I know, but... [[/Intruding Stazić: You are replicating colleagues of Kajin, not Greece. You're replicating Kajina.]] You're gonna give me 10 seconds? [[Intruder Stazic: Talk about something he didn't even talk about.]] If these funds had developed kindergartens and infrastructures and now these municipalities and cities that have used these funds have become developed so far, which means that they should now be abolished so that they can return to undeveloped violence and, in effect, punish what we have successfully used as the Institute of Regional Equal Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92557	Answer, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92558	If someone didn't happen to think I was against the EU, I wasn't. Neither are you, Mr. Representative. I was just talking about some data that we paid 537 million euros from 01.07.2013 to 01.07.2014 and withdrew 578 plus 38 million euros. But it should be borne in mind that for nuclear security and membership fees we have paid or left 160m euros. And what's the biggest problem, our priorities determines Brussels, not ourselves. I am convinced that whatever the government would be, if it were to give itself priorities that 537 million euros times 7, almost, point 6, how much euro, 4 billion kuna, would be more reliable than we're going to spend in this way. What affects me a little bit, or hurts me, is that of 38.6 million euros for regional competitiveness in Istria, we withdrew 0.82%, for the development of human potentials of 44.7 million euros, for rural development of 44.8 million 11.7 million, and for cross-border cooperation of only 200 thousand euros, and for traffic simply 0 kuna. So, for... from Buzet down to Pula, for Lupoglav, according to Bršica or Rasha, we haven't pulled any lip, and that's what should simply be the backbone of a future development of Istrian space or rather, development as it used to be until the '90s. year or until 2001 he was simply in those places when perhaps some other priorities were local or local leadership on his mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92559	A new replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92560	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, you have brought, by means of a list of these municipalities which, by some of your criteria, have, I say, the most underdeveloped in the Istrian County, in fact, appeared to me, indirectly in doubt to all of us in the calculation of these criteria, or criteria set by the ministry. In fact, when we look at this table by the development index produced by the Ministry of Regional Development, then we see that the most underdeveloped municipality in Istria Cerovlje with 86.57% of the average development index of Croatia, followed by Motovun with 88.7 so Karojba did not even mention some of the words, even though they belong. But I have to say that this is the Cerovlje municipality that has the lowest index of development in Istria and then it's 86%. And see that among the first 30 most underdeveloped municipalities in Croatia is 20 from Slavonia and they have a development index below 25%. So now I don't know if the ministry's calculation is bad or if you present it differently? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92561	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92562	... Because this is not the assisted area of Karojba does not belong to that group of mountain-mounted areas. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Yes, I understand that income or rather average income in one Cerovlje is the lowest in Croatia, but it speaks for the absurdities of this calculation. For example, the average income per capital of Lanište Municipality with 329 inhabitants is 25,878 kuna, and one Funtana that is between Poreč and Vrsar where there is no family, if it has a family house that is not worth 2 million euros is 21.793 kuna. I don't have information for Cerovlje now, it's just what gives me the right to doubt these criteria. On the other hand, they are not the poorest municipalities in Istria. I'm sure there's no way in which we can lead, for example, into that category. One Buzet or I don't know a little bit above us. On the other hand, I am also convinced that we have a standard in Istria from Buzet to Lupoglav and down to Cerovje we cannot compare today with the standard in Slavonia. We didn't have a war, 80% of Istria is 10km away from the sea, there's close to the border, there's infrastructure, it's easier to normal and place products and get to work, but let's also keep in mind the fact that it is. '45. Istria probably had more paved roads than the entire ex Yugoslavia. And when we talk about this law, what's the biggest loss, it's not just the loss of local self-government, if local self-government is restructured, it's the problem, it's the loss of citizens and what loses our economy and it's going to be an irreparable loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92563	New replica, respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92564	I've replicated to my esteemed colleague, Juhasa. My dear colleague, you spoke in your debate about Baranja being once a successful region in which you produced, you said "supervise," and in that pantry I remember from Međimurje there was everything. And what did Baranja and Slavonia and many parts of the Republic of Croatia fall on? They've been taken care of. You said we'd either get funds from the EU or the state to help us. Yesterday I was on Cres, and in one office I saw a nice drawing, a photo montage actually where the investment of this government was talked about, and on investments there was a picture of Ban Jelačić Square, and in the picture came the Trotters from Mućki with that famous car of theirs and they said, these are the investments that Mr. Grcic brought to Croatia. So you didn't buy the fake Greek optimism. This government has done it, and previous governments have started it, all to destroy that pantry you were talking about. Agricultural production is gone, agriculture is being destroyed from day to day, and we are increasingly importing bad, expensive agricultural goods while the land in the Republic of Croatia is being abandoned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92565	Another replica of the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92566	Comrade Juhas, you said the children are hungry in Baranja. I believe you, but you have to convince the Prime Minister and I urge you to remember that, remember when there will be a vote on the state budget. You mentioned article 14.zakon, urban areas, one failure that happened to the applicant, and I hope that the government's representative listens to what is said, this article 14 is prescribed that the city is based with the largest number of inhabitants on the city's proposal, the minister determines a part of the urban area on the proposal of the representative body or mayor. It doesn't say in the law, you can't use the term city in law. The mayor's authority or the representative's body. In that same article, you have the opinion of the units of local self-government, the opinion of the representative body or the municipal chief or mayor, because this is a special law in which the jurisdiction of the city, municipality and county is a problem, and this is also a problem in Article 13(2) where it says that the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92567	Mr. Lesar, you called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92568	Yes, colleagues to Juhasu.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92569	And you're saying you're talking... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92570	I am talking about article 14 mentioned by my colleague Juhas in article 13 of the same law, which contains inaccuracy, indiscretion and needs to be corrected. What's the problem, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92571	The problem is with the Rules of Procedure, the use of Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92572	No, that's your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92573	She's not in anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92574	Yeah, well, I'm talking about discussion and article 14. The law that my colleague Juhas mentioned, he was troubled, and I am still troublesome that the government has offered the formulations of a law from which no one in the name of the citizens will make decisions, executive authority or representative authority?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92575	The replica matches the esteemed Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92576	Yeah, I was talking to the props, talking about urban units, urban environments. That this shithole is empty is all the government's fault, but this government didn't put the country in a wasteland, and this government didn't spend the privatisation, but somebody did it before. And I think they're giving you exactly the greatest responsibility. Because if someone pays a hectare of land, rents a hectare of land, which is the greatest wealth of Baranja 300 kuna, and gets a 50-year concession, and that market value of that country is somewhere around 1,500 kuna, then I guess someone should think about it a little bit and help those units of local self-government and that way. And it will help Baranja, and in this way, if the White Manastir is formed or declared and the law is completed, this article becomes an urban centre which will then draw all other units of local self-government by the power of its gravity, and will be able to function as it worked until 1991 when Baranja was a unique administrative unit, the municipality. When these other municipalities were formed and one of the differences might be that, right, there was such an economic situation as it is today. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92577	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the IDS and Representative Furi Radina Club, the respected Walter Boljunčić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92578	Good afternoon, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So today there is one in a series of laws that are very much related to other laws, so the Regional Development Act, the mountain-mounted areas, of course, and the Law on the financing of local self-government. First of all, through the debate so far, there has been an impression that there is a part of the MP who wants to vote against undeveloped parts of Croatia getting support which is simply not true. So no one goes to the fact that the one who is underdeveloped by some indices doesn't deserve support we think needs to be gained but what we need to see is the situation that has been with the previously assisted areas especially mountainous and mountainous areas that lose support in this way. It is primarily about areas in the Gorski Kotar but it is also about, as has already been said several times, eight units of local self-government in Istria and over 13,000 citizens who will be left without it. Furthermore, he is trying to take the blame on the local community, on city administrations, on local leaders, as it is said, who, according to the government's view in the years of the crisis, increased the number of employees by 30% and increased their salaries by 30%. It's just not true. I have already said several times, for example, Pula, has since 2008 reduced the number of employees by 25% and the incomes that go to pay are 10.8 election revenues. So, but that's one basic problem when centralizing wants something and this law goes that way because so far, for example, with the Refund Fund, 15.5% were covered, now the state will take 17.5%. So it's about centralizing the funds. When things are centralized, then you just can't see what it looks like in a community. You have the same... for everything that isn't worth it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're going to look at it that way, even though there was no salary increase Istria is by development second, there's 158 somewhere in the development index, so 58% above average. If your salary is 30% higher then that means they're 20% behind what Istria has in development. So that's how logic can be seen. However, I believe that the facts cited here, above all, that the mountainous and mountainous areas, most of them in the Gorski Kotar, Istria, will lose that part and in the next three years, will only reduce to having undeveloped ends again. Because they have now managed to achieve some kind of development with support, which has other units in these areas. As for the means of support, you should also see that the cost of living is not the same everywhere. If you look at Istria you will always see that the cart for the four-member family is 20 percent more expensive than it is done in Slavonia or Varazdin, northwestern Croatia and elsewhere. So you can't just look at income without looking at the expense side. What the support provided so far in this area should be seen in the following, let's say in Istria itself in these parts, during this period, over 400,000 kunas have been invested in support in the last 10 years to help with the education and development of agriculture. Social assistance is given to help in the home of the elderly and powerless, it's about the transport of students, it's about the scholarship of students, it's about the scholarship of students, and it's just the fact that they made it possible to come as much to some normal development part. What is therefore not good in this law is the following, and this is that in the Law on Mountains and Mountains, the part that is only related to the mountain-mounted indicator is now said to be obtained according to the indexation of regional development. And the indices used need to be seen if they're correct. I don't think they're right for a few reasons. First of all, you should see other things listed in the indexes. You must certainly take specific geomorphological characteristics of a particular area. First of all, you have expenses related to the construction and maintenance of infrastructure roads. Is there anyone... The part is the same cost, on some hills you have to build infrastructure and you have to work roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have winter service, you have lighting and everything else that's in the hill-mounted parts. The other thing is what was said several times by Mr. Damir Caine. In these northern parts of us, old people and unemployment are either gone or farmers or retired, and the population is constantly being drained from that part. If they'd been so developed, I guess people would have come to live there, and they wouldn't have come from those parts. Secondly, these municipalities that are in the hills have very low population density, but they have roads and all other things that need to be fixed, maintained and simply they have a higher cost per unit of inhabitants than elsewhere. We believe that in this law, and we have given two amendments, first of all, to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, where we say he should actually remove that bill because he simply erases the fees they are now receiving. We think that this should remain, and we also think that, adequately, in the Regional Development Act, it should be allowed for the mountain-mounted areas to enter whether they are in the first, second, or whatever level they are using. The fact that what I said earlier, if it was a bad policy so far and the parts of the country have not been developed should certainly be helped, but that does not mean that it should now be taken to some extent by those who have come to some development that is definitely with this law, and then you will have a problem again, we will have a population displaced from mountainous and mountainous areas and will simply come to poverty with us Istria, but therefore other parts, especially Gorski Kotar, who does not see its perspective. So we're going to have to take the whole thing down for the development of these parts to the local community, and we're all going to have to bear the same weight, so it's not exactly true. The local community, meaning local self-government and regional spending units, and only 5% of the income falls on them, and if we look at the debt on local self-government units falls below 2% of the government debt. So you can't say it's the same. Another thing, these laws that were previously taken 2 billion kunas to the local community, want something to return to them from that same money or through some other impose 1 billion, however, when the account view is not correct. Besides, it's not that half the state, half the local community, you took two, you got one back, and the state kept some of the VAT money for itself. She kept money from interest-saving taxes, even from real estate taxes because now that you have a mass of unsold apartments on newly built apartments, VAT on land on which the apartment is located will be paid instead of real estate taxes, which therefore increases the price. This bill of law, therefore not only because of Istria, although it is of course important to us, I think it has a bad effect on mountainous and mountainous areas, I think it is returning in the opposite direction something which is still how much that development has given. And let's be clear, it's not given by the state, it's just part of the income tax that the local community's income is allowed to remain the same local community. This is not any other fund but is simply required that what is achieved in a community that operates under difficult economic and other parts to keep more money in that local community. This law also goes in the opposite direction instead of in decentralisation, towards centralised. The problem of centralization will be your next. Instead of leaving the funds in the community in the community together with the duties that must be done so as to see which community can dispose of its resources and develop or not take the funds. Now, no community will ever be able to settle their expenses, and then we won't be able to talk about reducing the number of local communities because each will have every right to blame the state for not being able to achieve its development programme because the state has taken the money. If you want to see which community is successful, which is not, drop the money, drop your duties and see who passes, who doesn't. Of course, by looking at our history we certainly need to help those parts, someone has also suggested that certain parts that were still and affected, so mine areas... should enter a special area which fully agrees with that attitude. But in this way with centralization, taking money and destroying some standard of the population that, thanks to that money, has managed to come to some level, I think a counter example will be reached. And once again, that's the money the local community made. We're talking about the loss of 8 units of local self-government in Istria. If you take into account that the tourist season has brought in 7 billion euros, Istria participates with at least 30%, in that if you take the VAT Istria only paid into the state budget this summer only on the basis of the VAT 3 billion kuna, and where the excise duties on gasoline are, where other excise duties remain. So we're just asking you to lower the money to the local community, lower their duties so we can see who it can be and don't do what I said before the golden rule, if there's anything wrong, don't go fix it. Thank you. We cannot set an example like this without compensatory measures, so we believe that the one who needs help needs help, but to the one who has been helped, do not take it now that they are determined to survive in a difficult economic situation for some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92579	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the esteemed Nenad Dance, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92580	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Boluncic, I'd like to sign everything you said in your debate. You mentioned the number of people in Istria that will be damaged by the adoption of these laws, that is 13000 inhabitants, and I will add to you for information that the entire mountain cotter will be damaged by these laws and that is 22,000 inhabitants, and on average it is 18 inhabitants per km2. When you talk about centralisation of funds, I will add to the centralization of the state and Croatian forests, 83% of the mountain's rolling stock is covered by forests. From the forest contribution, the Law on the hill-mountan area of the unit of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar at the expense of the mountain-mountan area has 5%. By abolishing that law, it'll be 3%. The price so far was 3 million kuna. Croatian forests draw a circus of 430 thousand metres of cubic wood mass each year, and when that would turn into a warm tree alone, it would be worth about 130 million kuna. We know that the sanitary tree in total is sold mountain wood in very small quantities. If there were more than a forest contribution, if there were more than a fee for roads and water, power lines, pipelines, gas pipelines passing the Gorje kotar, then they would no longer need such laws, more money would remain with those communities, and then they would not raise so much cash on the adoption of new laws on regional development or the abolition of existing ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92581	Replication response, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92582	Thank you. Well, here's a thank you for supporting this. As I was told by the IDS Club and the independent representatives of Furi Radin, we have tabled amendments to the law. One of the proposals is to abolish some of the changes in the mountainous and mountainous areas, i.e. to move that part that says it has to have a development index. And I hope when that part comes to the vote, that MPs will not only from Istria and Gorski Kotar, but also others will see that it is necessary and will give that support. And definitely the Gorski kotar belongs there, because how many times do I not say maltenes out of the sea we get out, we enter the Gorski Kotar there is snow, buried roads and others. So definitely one part of Croatia that deserves because of its beauty support to remain that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92583	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92584	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Boluncic and your party as well as the HDSSB belong to the regional parties, so I think that in part of your debate when you said that the government's assessment of certain units of local self-government that up to 30% spent more than they had to, that they unwisely employed, paid salaries, increased in comparison to the state and to this other sector of public administration. I think the government's assessment is correct, and why do I think so? Because, on the one hand, it is true that not everyone is equal and that not everyone has unwisely spent money, but you have to admit that there are those who do not know how to manage their own units of local self-government and that the real point is that without the comprehensive territorial reform of Croatia, without the introduction of regions into the Constitution and in the function of the Republic of Croatia, which will give us 551 units of local self-government if these majority of small municipalities cannot pay their own wages, but the state aid serves them as a payout service. These are the realities in Croatia, and without some serious government seriously accessing Croatia's territorial reconstruction, let's say by a similar model as Denmark did as an EU member country, we will face a major problem in a year. Because the estimates are that this state budget for 2015 is one of the last in such a way that it can withstand states such as the size and structure of the Republic of Croatia. So, many financial experts fear what will happen with the 2016 projections and this time ahead of us, so I hope we can agree that some future government, if this one does not want, needs to go all the way to the reforms of the territorial structure of Croatia. Then we will be able to talk less about it, about the territory of development, about underdevelopment, if we seriously approach the problem of real, true reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92585	The replica matches Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92586	Thank you. So I'm definitely on the stand that regionalism should be introduced to me in the Constitution. All the waist she said so far, she said it was one of the essential preconditions. And I also say, of course, that Istria should be a region that deserves both economic and any other development as well as other parts deserve to be a region. What I mentioned, the business problem is next. There's no telling who's what. Someone saves, and someone doesn't save, and then everyone turns out to be guilty. It just doesn't work that way. I think what I said about Istria is saying a lot about how much Istria saved. One example. Hospital recovery. Then in the end, we remember little not to say because we as the Istrian County with 70 million kuna when the Istrian hospital was in trouble for drugs, although the minister admitted that monthly 24, i.e. A yearly 24 million kuna gives less than it should. So after that there would come a recovery, and we basically gave 70 million kuna to the state that with our money he was resuscitating the hospital. What I definitely agree with and what I think should be next. So when you have a central state that takes money, then every municipality as unreasonable as spending money has the right to complain and say, so we can't do that because the state has the cash register it gives. The moment you drop that money to the local community, it's as if the CEO at the shipyard has to go to every welder to see if it's welding or not. The moment you put the money down to the local community, but the duties will show who can, who can't work, and that's the right way to see if any community can survive or can't survive. So that's the real thing for me. I think regionalism and the differences that exist in the regions each has its own specificity. When we talked about agricultural land, what's our problem in Istria for you in Slavonia, you said there was a garden in the garden, it's for us huge agricultural land where we grow. Therefore, I am sure that this law is going in the opposite direction than should be headed towards Croatia's development. I'm about to help Slavonia, you should've done it before. But let's not blame ourselves if we want some of our parts that have barely managed to be maintained now we take their money. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92587	The third line is the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92588	Comrade Boluncic, you have rightly called this law or given it the characteristic of introducing a new form of centralization. In my view, this is due to the fact that there has been no inter-resor coordination of powers, i.e. obligations, or funding of local and regional self-government within all governments so far. The resolutions individually exercise decentralisation of powers, i.e. obligations and each law make new obligations to municipalities, cities and counties and they are independent without coordination. And only one, possibly two resolutions, so finance and now regional development, come with bill proposals concerning the financing of these same obligations. And because of that discrepancy you're right about this law, a large part of the finance is centralizing again. And his other lack is, and you mentioned solidarity, in that. So, this law rests on the principle of solidarity, who? The ones they have with the ones they don't have. However, in order for someone to have the right to seek solidarity from someone, I think it would be a minimum of the same local self-government to, say, have a cut. So of the 264 municipalities and the city that enter the first and second categories of assisted areas, 136 of them have no income tax cut as autonomous sources of local self-government income. So more than half of them have no income tax cuts. And now we come to the fact that those who pay the cut will be solid with those who do not have a cut, who have a municipal contribution and a communal fee established and declared in a minimum form with those who pay in the highest form. And that's the second defect of this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92589	Time. The last replica, the esteemed Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92590	I would like to refer in this section, which you have presented to a respected colleague, Boluncic, with the view that the time has finally come for all of us to stand up together for both full and sustainable solutions. The next thing I know, we're going the wrong way. Instead of talking parallelly about decentralisation, regionalisation and reform of local self-government units, which would lead to complete and sustainable system solutions, we always go the other way, we simply don't realize that local self-government development locomotives are units, that we need to financially strengthen their financial capacity, that we need to trust them with full confidence and that local self-government units or the head is nothing more than a state-run subsistence on a local level. We are partners, we are making one common overall, and by doing so we want to do so at local level, and we need to relieve the state level of unnecessary operational levels of actions and give the state level simply to target its capacity towards strategic considerations. We take money to cities, we take money to municipalities, and tomorrow someone wants it to be the same leaders in local self-government units to make sure they're not able to manage or have the status of units of local self-government. That is why I return to decentralisation, regionalisation, reform of the local self-government unit and the topic of regional development is much broader than the very theme of the Regional Development Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92591	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Valter Bolunčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92592	Here, thank you. I'd give just one reminder of what you said, actually proof of that, when the state level of the local community came down to the problem of building permits, that's what we solved in Istria behind. For decentralisation it wasn't one office, but every city that could have done it has been shown to solve local problems much better at local level. Besides, we have local elections, which you think people go to locals, which shows how many of them come out, so they know who did well and who hasn't worked well for four years. You can't, what someone says you can cheat on someone once, some people you can cheat on all the time, but you can't drag people around on it all the time. Therefore, the local community deserves more respect than it is given from the central level. So that's the engine, like you said, the engine that's quite important for Croatia's movement. And I'm saying on these examples of civil licenses, you could see how it could work better. On the other hand, you have an example of agricultural land taken from the local community, two years of giving nothing, we have entered the EU. The question now is whether wine vines can be grown or not because of quotas that are available and who knows who to assign land to, and not those who have worked there for 20 years, so milk and dairy products. I think it's one situation that doesn't go in the right direction, it needs to go towards decentralisation, and that's for me, with solidarity as you said before, solidarity is what we need here anyway. Those who didn't have a cut now won't even have income tax. Even if they put the cut back on, they've got zero in the end. For those who are underdeveloped are less purchasing power, their wages are lower, and with this income tax they will have even less money left. Thus, that law further reduced income for undeveloped people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92593	Thank you. We will also listen to the HDZ club and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92594	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. At the very beginning, let's say the HDZ Club will not support this Regional Development Act because we consider it another major failure by this government, which combined with the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act, makes it a corn cocktail for the dying of local self-government on wars. If the law is good, as we're told here, if it's great, so why, does logic say, then why all these enormous compensations through other laws to bring the thing back to the same and to the same local self-governments, at least about what we take away from them if the law is good? We claim it's another failure. Why? Well, because for 20 years we've tried and found a way to the EU. The EU funds story was the best story, especially in rural areas, gave what was needed, a vote in a referendum on EU accession. For years, we have been preparing ourselves, we have talked about opportunities, we have upgraded the resources of the budget all that we have not received, we have educated officials to achieve benefits by entering the EU, grants for the development of Croatia as a whole, for the development of the economy, for the development of the weakest, most underdeveloped areas that must have priority and for which the state must in every way help. What kind of law is that that takes away those who don't have, what kind of regional policy is that? And this law does it. We've been creating institutions for 20 years, creating legal opportunities, 576 local self-government, ministry, Central Agency for Negotiation and Financing, Regional Development Agency, Regional Development Strategy, Regional Development Act, Regional Development Index, Regional Support Map, Island Act, Hill and Mountain Areas Act, PPDS Act, Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. For twenty years, what we have in these four years, i.e. in these three years of four years of office? The government's slowness and lack of vision have led to an even greater increase in regional development. Since 2009, since 2012, the Regional Development Act has started a public debate, i.e. the preparation of this proposal, the Regional Development Act. It ended on 4 November 2013 and is then introduced to us as a law that brings very serious reforms in regional development. The adoption of the law was then announced for February 2014, in order to implement the whole of 2014 in sublaws, in creating conditions for the law to be implemented in 2015. Unfortunately, the government only wakes up from a winter dream and almost two years after the public debate ended in 2014 sends the law by emergency procedure and the Croatian Parliament. Two years means nothing is done and now suddenly an emergency procedure on which local self-government and regional self-government have had 10 days to manifest themselves. One thing is clear, since the government's announcement at the beginning of the mandate on measures for even regional development, on regional development projects and investments in less developed areas we have nothing. Lack of will, foreigning, improvisation, unhappiness and neglect of regional development policy have led to an increase in differences. The best example of such a policy is a map of regional support under which the same 40% co-financing of the project is obtained by an entrepreneur in Vukovar and Zagreb. In an emergency procedure's explanation, it was noted that this is due to the need for Croatia to prepare best for the use of EU funds. We can conclude at the club that at the end of 2014. The government is still preparing. That's all the government in Croatia has done, analyzed and prepared these 3 years. The economy is sinking, the citizens of the poor and the government will prepare themselves and settle everything tomorrow. We argue that county strategies and regional development strategies are unsustainable, units of local, regional and regional self-government not based on their strategies should propose and prepare projects for co-financing of EU funds. The government rather than encourages them and speeds up the preparation of strategic documents all the time delaying their preparation. It sounds amazing that the ministry's plan is listed in memos to the 9th month counties this year that the new regional development strategy will be completed by the end of June 2015 and County Development Strategies are expected to be adopted during the second half of 2015. This means that county development strategies reflecting the real needs in these counties will only be current since 2016. Growth drivers for each of the counties are undefined, projects to be prepared are not determined because they will be financed from EU funds. Local self-governments are left to themselves, very limited resources are invested in the preparation of randomly selected projects. So the government tells you to invest in projects to build kindergartens, schools and then inform you again that these projects will not be able to be financed from EU funds. It means that the government has found only the way and the mechanisms to further impoverish and thus the poor local self-government units. The changes in income tax are only cream on cakes of such concern. Decentralisation and fund management in a social democratic way. We have poor access to strategic planning, very bad, concern of the current government is also evident in the fact that the adoption of a strategic document at NUC 2 level, a level important for successful participation in cohesion policy as well as in the fact that county development strategies in the bill are still left as a strategic document being prepared at the county level for the county area, rather than being strategic documents that combine strategic priorities and objectives of all municipalities, cities and counties. Article 15 introduces the need to adopt a strategy for urban development, and paragraph 5 defines the following: "It is brought by a representative body which was the holder of its production in the previous opinion of all units of local self-government in that urban area." What if the opinion of one of those units is negative? In accordance with Article 15(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 15(4) of that Regulation. "That the prescribed opinion of the Partnership Council must be positive." If it's not positive, there's no strategy. And local units can only give their opinion. Centralisation in decision-making continues to be encouraged, this should not be the meaning of this law. The programmes referred to in Articles 39 and 40 shall be adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry and shall result in measures and projects to be financed. Perhaps the most absurd report on the implementation of these programmes every two years is submitted by the government to itself, not to the Croatian Parliament, not to anyone else, itself. It's the introduction of a parallel system. The government slightly allows the local level to plan, but still thinks it is smarter to plan and decide what is in the interest of the local self-government. This is a very selfish approach for us because the Union is also giving funds from its budget to us for our priorities and based on our strategic documents. Unlike this approach, the Government imposes its dictatorship on assisted areas. It's a parallel system, and we can ask ourselves where local development is. The government has been bringing us back for years and shows that it does not understand the concept of local and regional development. That's what we talked about, it's planned from the top down, and we claim that the right and only strategy is to respect local self-government and planning from above. What else are we offered? Administratively complicated system, nothing without council. We've got councils, I'll list them for you now. The Regional Development Council, the Partnership Council of the Statistical Regions, the Regional Coordinators, the Parter Council for the County, the Partnership Council for the Urban Area, the Local Development Agency. So is all this a place in this law? That's the basic question. As long as everyone in this jurisdiction and in the composition meets in a year, we don't think anything's going to happen, absolutely nothing happens. Instead of a simple and passing system that quickly and efficiently decides in a few moments, we will have a meeting, a lot of meetings to finally decide what a local self-government needs. What will come of this project preparation fund and co-financing of implementation costs? The ministry has adopted several initiatives to set up the fund, to co-finance the preparation of the implementation of development projects in assisted areas. However, the legislative solution continues to stipulate that the level and way of assistance to co-finance the preparation and implementation of development projects in these areas is determined through a specific programme adopted by the Minister of Decision. This is an extremely non-transparent way of determining who and under what conditions can achieve professional and financial assistance for the preparation and implementation of projects. Here we read yesterday, a new fund, 150 million kuna here, 30 million there, a billion here, a billion there. It seems to us more and more that these EU funds are actually for this country's pigeon on the border. In the end, what may have most occupied the attention of all MPs, as well as the public as well. The development index, it still does not take into account demographic characteristics and the impact of the crisis. During the public debate in the previous proposal of the Regional Development Act, there were plenty of initiatives to change the development index in such a way as to take into account the specific geomorphological characteristics of local self-government units, demographic characteristics over a long period of time,... population and population density, i.e. the area of the units due to the difficult circumstances that those characteristics represent for the uniform development of the Republic of Croatia. We're modifying and supplementing the indexation regulations, nothing special has happened. 5 criteria, unemployment rate, income per capita, budget income, education rate and general population movement did not create a fair relationship and what we all notice, many of those who are underdeveloped were declared developed and disappeared from the view of this government. Finally, the HDZ Club believes that this law is not good, that it will not fulfil its basic function as set out in Article 2 and contribute to the social economic development of the Republic of Croatia in line with the principles of sustainable development, creating conditions that will enable all parts of the country to strengthen competitiveness and realise their own development potential. He is not just, as the minister said, because it is not justice to take him who has no and give him who has none, it was not and will never be justice. If 80 comes out and 105 new ones enter the support system, there's no solidarity either, because a lot of them have fallen out, and they're in assisted areas. Especially here, I mean Mountain Kotar. Local self-government from assisted areas, for them they needed to find ways to survive in the system, and I'm saying it only allows us through a fairer indexation system of all local self-government. It is not a true claim that is often pointed out that this law is the end of a double support system, after a long time we learn that everything that has been announced and the abolition of the Mountain Act and the PPDS Act remains in force, but in the form of a mole. We know that the system of double support continues. Because of the three-year delay and inaction, because we will spend the whole 2015 on body formation, implementing acts, which will be transferred to 2016 because of the additional centralisation and introduction of unnecessary councils, because of the completely missed indices that do not give the right and approximately true development of certain municipalities and cities, because of the ignoring of local self-government, because of the ambiguity around funds and co-financing... the state, because we believe that this law should seriously correct what is impossible to amend, and the urgency that makes it even more difficult for us, the HDZ Club will not support this Regional Development Act because, I repeat, in combination with the amendments to the Law on Tax on Income, means cocktails for the dying of local self-government in a slow but safe way. And in the end, it might be good for you to understand what your mayor of the city of Rijeka, Mr..., forgive God for not knowing what they're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92595	Thank you. We've reported four replicas, but we'll deal with them at 3:00. I'm setting a break now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92596	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. First, my colleague Boris will respond to the replicas. The Milas Replica Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, a lot of things you said, I'll look back on only one part, so it's a very interesting illogicalness that we find in the explanation and assessment of the state of the bill's proposal. Therefore, the Partnership Council of Sadistic Regions, so NUC 2 is assessed as dysfunctional. The reason for this, among other things, is quoted as saying: "The significant geographical heterogeneity of the NUC2 region." It is interesting, therefore, that it is actually acknowledged that the division into two NUC 2 regions introduced by the Government did not justify their existence, and before that, let us remember the countless polemics in which we participated as a club and I personally, and even it was as much as I remember impeling and not talking about it now. The second reason it says is the problem in the event of the need for a more frequent session of the Partnership Council. So I don't understand whether the government's goal is to hold sessions more often, more rarely, or not at all? It seems to me that the Partnership Council simply does not respond to the Government and then proposes to establish a subcommittee within the Partnership Council but also to set up a Regional Development Council which should do exactly what the Partnership Council should do, therefore, to serve the same purpose. Well, isn't that a little paradoxical and vague, but this time, the role of the central level comes to terms. So we have the Regional Development Council, so we have the NAC 2 Partnership Council, so we have the County Partnership Council, and then the Partnership Council for the urban area, so that sounds great, and it will certainly contribute to a more efficient and better regional development. On the other hand, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, said that, and I will repeat it, brings a programme for the assisted area for a period of 4 years that defines measures and projects to encourage the development of these areas without asking anyone. While paralleling Articles 11, 12 and 13 discusses the strategy of regional development, county strategies and the necessity of their consistency. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92598	Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92599	Thank you very much. We will return to our debate for a moment again, where we have clearly established that this law is administratively complicated by the whole system, because I will repeat what is now being repeated as some kind of news and there is a lot of administration, the Regional Development Council, the Partnership Council of the Statistical Regions, the Regional Coordinators, the Partnership Council for the County, the Partnership Council for the Urban Area, the local development agencies. And we rightly wondered if all this place was in the law. Because as long as they all meet in that year, it'll be so long before we determine at the end of the year that nothing happened that the money was standing, that local self-government failed to achieve its intentions. I don't know what it took for the government because we had a much simpler law that was in force and it's still until this one happens, but then it's said it's no good we're going to change it all and it's going on for three years. And instead of trying to find a better development index that will give as much a more realistic picture of the development of Croatian local self-government as possible, we started to deal with administration, so that again the Government would re-establish new programmes for assisted areas to give itself exclusive authority to determine who it should, how much, whether it would go along some party lines without criteria, and what is most absurd for us that the Government would report to itself every two years how it implements the programme. Well, probably when we discuss all the funds, here about the reports, how they are spent and how they are negotiated every six months, it might be wise for us in the Croatian Parliament to see how these funds are spent from these funds. Because again the fundamental question is left, if the law is good and excellent as we're told, then why all the great compensatory measures to compensate for what we have today and no one gives an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92600	Thank you. Milan Jurkovic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Boric, it is difficult to disagree with everything you justifiably stated in your debate but one sentence stuck to my ear that you said at the beginning that this law was dying on the wars of units of local self-government. I can't agree with you here because this is the euthanasia of the local self-government unit and dying of wars of residents and citizens of assisted areas. Today is St. Kata, and I don't know if there's any Kata in the assembly, but there's a folk saying, "Holy Kata snow on the door."so it's an elemental accident. And this set of laws for local self-government units from assisted spaces is an elemental disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92602	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92603	Thank you very much. Comrade Jurkovic, I agree and repeat again what we have already heard in this house and what I have said. So what's not absurd is that we through one law, through amendments and additions to the Tax Act to mayors and mayors who have the highest wages, mean in local self-government we raise their wages. By the second law, we take the same law from them, we take the funds through this law, and we further poverty them, and then we find that this is all just and solidarity, and we didn't want any more, so for 3 years they didn't want to deal with indexation that says that the unemployment rate that carries 30% of the index value, income per capita 25%, the budget income of local self-government carries 15% in index, education rates 15 and general population 15. If only in this last one, which carries 15% in the index, we had adjusted a little bit, that we took not 10 years back, as it was now taken through the indexation regulation, but 30 years, that we took in '81. For a year, they would understand what the decline of the population is exactly on these local self-governments that have been supported so far, and now they will enter that, perhaps not the fourth or fifth group of the most developed municipalities and cities. Just for example... I'll give you, in 1981, they had 1759 residents, today 1062, 700 residents less or almost 40% less. So can we say that some local self-government is developed if it leaves within 30 years almost half the population, is that development? It certainly isn't. In Gorski Kotar from 1981 to today 10 thousand people less than or 30% of the total population. And then we pass a law that we say is just and solid. We claim neither to be righteous nor to be solid. If many were to be helped to enter the support system, they could be introduced in some ways, but not taken by those who are now left without anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92604	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Boric, you have well concluded that these measures of the new law are incomplete, incorrect, that they will be inefficient, unspecified and that there are additional ones that should have been used in order to be transparent, clear, so that further calculations can be made to whom they belong and who will develop evenly and who has reached their level of development. You can't see anything right out of this law. No demographic characteristics, no impact of the crisis, no geomorphological characteristics were taken into account, none of that exists. There is no clear picture of how these calculations happened, and what is the formula for them, why is something hiding if it wants to help in development and progress? Why are neither the county community nor the community of cities or communities of municipalities respected? Why are all these institutions and why is the European Charter finally broken by this new law?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92606	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92607	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, exactly because look, here, I made a presentation. She's from November 2013. So for a year, it already says what's going to happen in 2014 and it only happened now in November. That's where the government lost a year and now there's an emergency procedure, and what did they write? Switching to a new system, the full transition to the development index as the basic identification of assisted areas, the adoption of laws, February 2014. The harmonisation of the law, 2014, sublegal regulations and other documents. The existing strategy for development of the Republic of Croatia and the county development strategy are still valid until the end of 2014. Full implementation of the new system 2015 Now that we've repainted this time, do you realize when the full application of this law will be? 2016 according to your strategy, i.e. from your presentation. That's a nice writing, and you can nod your head, that's a nice one. This is also witnessed by this memo you sent to the county, where you inform them at the 9th month that their strategies are still valid even though they should have ended in 2013. Do we understand what kind of frames we're moving in? It means that those development strategies, which were the basis for all projects, are worth it in 2014, will also be valid in 2015, only in 2016 will they be able to appreciate a new one if by then the state does its part, and probably by this obvious that it will not because the state is anyway. And that's why we often ask ourselves, and where's the money? The money simply doesn't have because the state hasn't done its job and I don't know what year we lost when you proposed almost the same, similar law as it was in the public debate, except that you lifted the planning areas and introduced urban areas... and there you gave yourself the most important moment for the minister to determine and the program to be given both the compositions and the agreements that will need to be signed, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92608	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92609	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, in your debate, you said, among other things, that this legal proposal is taken away from those who do not have and is given to those who have. This claim is not correct at all, but before I try to prove it, often times, you use that word, you often used that word "take" here, "take away", so only citizens pay and finance the budgets of any units of local self-government, whether the state budget, through taxes, taxes and fees, and what we can agree to is that there is a difference in the development of certain regions in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in his introduction, the minister said that we must determine who is least developed. With this legislative proposal, 100 new units of local self-government enter the programme, they have a development index below 75%. Between those 195, 95 is from Slavonia, there's my community that has a development index below 50%. It's about redistributing funds, so no confiscation. When it comes to justice, two things need to be pointed out. Local self-government units are not homogeneous by their composition. It is clear to all that units of local self-government, that borders have been maintained politically so that there are two violences that have exactly equal terms, one belongs to a unit that is of particular national concern, the other does not belong, and has the same conditions of life. The second thing, these 20 years of funds were mostly not intended, so in most cases they did not achieve the effect they needed and therefore they certainly did not need a guilty ministry or the one who delivered the money. We can talk about the criteria, of course you have said here on several occasions that you should have taken into account perhaps another criterion, but the criteria are very difficult to agree on because, by some criteria, one would fall out, and the other would come into consideration. What is most important, and what I think personally, is that the minister mentioned that all those own funds that local self-government units need to implement in a particular project or that he stressed that without funds, the project could begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92610	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92611	Thank you very much. I don't know if this technique is a good colleague or not, but that's not exactly what I said. I said it wasn't fair what the minister said when he represented the law that this was a fair law because some introduced some out. I said it's not justice if you take those who don't have to give the same to those who don't have, it's not right for me. It's not even solid for those 100 to come in, and 85 to come out for me it's not solidarity either. We can now play the words here to say what it is but solidarity implies that if we noticed in some area that someone is not in the support system then we should have allowed him to enter, but still to preserve those who really need to stay there and that the development index is the one that made the biggest confusion in this law. and that there are various possibilities that have been possible for three years in a different way. We're not subject to what kind of development index we're going to have. In which way we're going to calculate it. Just as Europe has never conditioned us to abolish these three laws on islands, PPDS and mountain-mounted mountains, and then it was said that they would be abolished from 1.1.2015, and then it was said that the island law would remain, and the mountain-mounted and the PPDS would be abolished so that today, at 11 months before 1.1.2015, no law would be abolished, only those specific laws would remove what the state considers to be the most valuable, which are some kind of financial effects. And we argue that this was not necessary either, that regional policy of law is sincere if it wants to help rather than take assisted areas. Nobody in Europe knows that. If someone is poor and you take away what little they have and you can't tell me it's neither fair nor solidarity, and that's what this law does, and it could have been different, and the emergency procedure makes it impossible for us to get rid of it in a quality way. And it would be good to sort of switch this to another reading, third reading, or to be able to fix the law. He'll stay like this and do some damage, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92612	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Slavko Linić, Mr Vuksic and Hodzic, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92613	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Whether the law is really new and reformal and whether it achieves its goals, I would like to evaluate it with what it says in the law itself. The law clearly states that "a link between the strategic objectives of regional development policy and the actions of central state bodies must necessarily connect two complementary objectives. First, to reduce regional inequality through specific interventions aimed exclusively at less developed areas and other areas with developmental specificities. And the second goal is to strengthen the competitiveness of each regional and local unit, with special attention being given to cities." These are two objectives that link the strategy and the state's action. It's written in a document. Now let us ask ourselves whether the new proposal of the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia connects and gives alternatives to achieving these objectives? The answer is no. This bill of law is currently arguing these two goals. On the one hand, we are really trying to find a solution for regional and local units where intervention by central state authorities is needed, but what is also important is strengthening the competitiveness of others. We do not do this, in essence, with the following laws and these laws, destroy the competitiveness of local self-government units and weaken the grotesque units of local self-government and this is the biggest problem of this law that we simply have not achieved a fundamental goal. And that is why we really need to say a bad bill, a law that will solve part of the problem of units where intervention of central state bodies is needed, but has completely destroyed and destabilised the rest of the local and regional self-government system. Let's continue, in this law the first sentence tells you in an explanation that you must respect both the economic and financial crisis that we have in the Republic of Croatia, you wrote it yourself. Now, I'm asking you again, is this the law that you're solving and respecting the economic and financial crisis? No, I don't. With most units of local and regional self-government precisely with this package, I mean not only this law, you're strengthening the crisis in local self-government units, but you're dealing with the consequences of the crisis of citizens and the fall in economic activity on their burden. So you don't respect the fact that the crisis, both financially and economically, has a negative effect on the units of local self-government and that this law should remedy that damage. Also why the bill comes, so the bill goes for the reason why we had a series of laws to solve the specificities of undeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia. So we had the Law on Regionals, so we had the Law on Islands and the Law on Special Areas of State Care, then the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. So when we propose a new solution then this new solution is probably important so that we can solve it in one place and not, which we are now getting, a new bill of law, a quality system solution as said by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and basically retain all these other legal solutions while removing some articles that say something about financial effects, or I would say the possibilities to mitigate the negative consequences. Therefore, the law also says that this is a systematic solution I expected today to really be before us one common law. And we don't have a change of one law and we leave all the other laws in force and we say these are transitional periods of maybe three years. Well, we could have installed those transitional periods, and I was in this legal project and removed everything else. And why is that very important? So because in the law itself you said that the cohesion policy of the European Community is very important for regional policy in the Republic of Croatia and that it makes us change these legal projects. Why? Well, because cohesion policy, we still finance common Europe from some funds, and then it's important to have a simple clear, transparent, new law so that we can withdraw funds. And there comes essentially the biggest problems. Because when we talk about cohesion policy then we say that it is very important to solve both the economic and social problem of development, the problem of the environment, the demographic problem and climate change so that we can in some way create a common policy that we are leading through this proposal of the Regional Development Act. I also add our Croatian specificity, which is the removal of the consequences of war and war destruction, there is no such thing in Europe, but I doubt Europe would mind that in this policy of equating regional development we have inserted and removing damage even if there is a mine removal as a long-term problem of the Republic of Croatia. And, of course, we've turned our backs on all of these, I'd say the criteria or criteria we've made on a strategy of these policies that Europe itself states in its cohesion policy, and then we'd have slightly different indices that have created some confusion here. And I can't accept that someone is calling that four years ago we established those indices, so we have them. Well, we had to change them, we had enough time, enough time to really adapt the indices to all these criteria, or I would say the criteria for determining the Regional Development Strategy. And apparently, then we wouldn't have the problem we're talking about today. They would have no quarrel over a small amount of regional balance in the Republic of Croatia. And it is obvious that we will have problems because if we do not see the islands in this law whether Europe will accept us through its cohesion policy to finance the island's projects or find us a grudge, they will not want us because we do not have it in this policy. The mountain-mounted areas that remain but are not in this law, and this law is the basis for the withdrawal of European countries. We must, of course, continue to be wise and smartly concerned about this through specific laws that are not in line with European directives because they are not in this law. But not to hold on too much to this particular problem that tomorrow we'll justify withdrawing funds through such an unqualityly prepared entire package of laws. Then we have the biggest problem, what's our biggest problem? Funding. We finance the poor in this way to take from local self-government units where they are poor. Why? Well, most of the funding goes through income tax, profit tax. And any support to citizens, companies always burden poor units where support should be given. And apparently, tax policy in part of income and profit should not serve to bring regional development into line because we are doing damage to these units of local self-government. And then of course, then we're dealing with how to get the funds back into those areas, given that the revenues of those units of local self-government haven't been achieved. It's something we've witnessed in the last 10 years as many of these laws exist. Therefore, it was necessary to change the logic of how to achieve these support rather than make the same mistake. And then of course we first give support to citizens and businesses, and then we have to return it to local self-government units and it turns out to be a series of complicated situations. And let's not say that now because of some amendments to the Income Tax Act and tomorrow, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, we are considering compensatory measures. So then we go back to taking part in real estate tax, and again we go to certain participations in the revenues of national parks, nature parks, and again we go to incomes based on compensation for mineral raw materials. So we are complicating the system so through tax laws, through the burden of parafiscal intrusion we are trying to solve something that should have been solved as well in the European community as well. And that's why I think that with this kind of asset insurance, these legal solutions are simply not acceptable, and in fact not only do we have problems with the stringing and ambiguity and intransparency, but we happen to have both the problem of fiscal responsibility and the way in which we deal with fiscal obligations. But let's go back to something else. Did it take three years to prepare this law? Well, it's not. To say that we have 100 units of local self-government that are below 50% of the Croatian average shows that it shouldn't have waited three years. I would perhaps have found understanding for three years that the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Territorial Design, had been amended by the Law on Taxation of Real Estates, which should be the original income of local self-government units, not the communal fee. Therefore, if it had been a single package full of units of local self-government from a territorial structure so that through a territorial structure we had solved a good part of the units that had no economic justification because their incomes were less, perhaps we could understand that we had waited 3 years, but 4 because the application was only in the following year, only for small change without having touched the complete package of local self-government. And apparently the whole problem lies in the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia and in the fiscal capacity of individual units of local self-government. So it's really irresponsible for all of these municipalities, 100 of them now entering this system that they've waited 3 years because we haven't received a quality solution through new structures and new redistributions in the powers of local self-government units. All of this shows that this is not a quality solution, all of this shows that this law has not significantly resolved when we talk about what regional equality, regional progress and assistance to other units that need both county and central state bodies to do, but that means that we will also have problems in withdrawing funds and we will not be effective. That's why I don't think this law is a quality solution. Yeah, you put us in a dilemma because the simplest thing would be to get this law back, and we're going with the development index regulation and we're going to get these 100 units of local self-government that have been suffering for three years. Therefore, for one Ministry of Regional Development, a really bad bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92614	Thank you. We're on our way to replication. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've made it very clear to your colleague Linic that this is a bad law that will not help those who have already been devastated in these three years, who have been displaced and extinct. Let's just say in our county, 10,000 residents less than the last census speak clearly about what's going on. Yeah, and we're the most underdeveloped county. Yeah, why? Because it's a rural space, and rural development hasn't been experienced. Regional development may improve something but we're afraid it's too late. It's too late for everything that's going to happen. It is too late for regional development to correct what is missing through rural development. It is too late because through various other legal forms of the Law on Agriculture, as well as the Law on craftsmanship and everything else destroyed and agricultural goods, displaced people, relocated, extinct and no recovery of the village. The village is devastated, the municipalities and cities are extinct. So we could say that we are approximately close and that the entire county over a certain period of time if another 10,000 inhabitants were to be less of us, can not help this regional law that is bad for our municipalities and cities and has no clear criteria that would further improve the picture and thus contribute to those aids that are necessary and to the development that you have already said was 3 years late. Now this hastily or procedure, which was in the public debate as soon as possible and which has actually been given out of all the negative grades, wants to bring something in this hasty procedure that will only be a patch on such a big hole of failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92616	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92617	The results so far of specific laws that should support the development of undeveloped or PPDS show that investments have been unsuccessful. We had a certain redistribution of funds, but we didn't have a lot of effects. What we also need to know is not the problem of local self-government units just means, the problem is personnel. It is simply a question of how to find people with such bill proposals that can be effective in certain cities and municipalities where important changes need to be made in order to equalise themselves with some Croatian average when we talk about indices of development. We can't pay those personnel in local self-government units. When do you observe the bill you see? One commission, another commission, one body, one I'd say new structure, new employees. Yeah, I'm just wondering if your employees are spending now. If they are how we're going to reduce the number of employees, and we say that there are too many employees and how we're going to finance that profession that just has to do that part. That's why I think spending money on local self-government units that will have to hire staff, fighting alone is not the solution. The solution is essentially to invest in infrastructure, jobs and other things, and it is obvious that these are not the issues of redistributing income tax and profit tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92618	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92619	Thank you very much. A colleague of Linic, you and I and a part of the parliamentary deputies agreed today that this law is bad and will not solve what was announced. So, in one place, solve all the laws that were prescribed by some other laws. They've been telling us for three years how it's gonna be. However, no one explained why the announcement had not now occurred. And all the laws remain, and all the time it's been said that the double support system is finished. So let's see what the island law, PPDS and mountain mountaineering offer. Here is what we have out of convenience – preferential maritime transport, that is the position in the budget. Road transport across the island, also a special position in the budget. Free bridge for the island of Krk, the subsidy leads to 20 cubic metres per month, the same special position. Support to employers, special position. Bruto also pays per employee per year for the first group. Under other regulations 20% of income tax in HBOR's special account for local self-government. Small fishing without payment of annual fees and more favourable HBOR loans. That's what the island law offers. Where's the law? Where's the law? Nothing. It's mountain-mounted, then. What were they privileged to do? Free harvesting of forest fruits, advantage in the lease of agricultural and forest land, hunting grounds, fishing rights on equal terms. Tax breaks in accordance with the Income Tax Act, Article 40, and paying the profit tax that was being settled, were for the first time applied indexation when we did it last year. And the right of the championship to acquire wood raw materials again on equal terms. So this offers a mountain-mounted area, and the PPDS also offers housing. And then the government and the ministry tell us they're going to abolish the PPDS Act and pass a new housing law. Has anyone seen him? He's gone. And in the meantime, we've established a state housing office, so you don't have to stay in the air space of that state office and the PPDS Act. And now we're saying that this law only solves it with one single article that's most important, and that's indexation. Is that just? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92620	Thank you. Comrade Linic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92621	I suppose the reason why this bill is being prepared for three years is because it simply has not solved the problem of undeveloped and has not solved the problem of ensuring the competitiveness of other local self-government units. On the other hand, it is evident that the problem when 60 or how many units of local self-government have emerged from the support system under the Regional Development or Development Act. This is why we have long delayed the adoption of this law and what is the problem of keeping solutions that should have been abolished for reasons that are not in line with European directives, so their implementation and possible withdrawal of any means to implement these other laws, such as mountainous, special areas and islands. And that's why a little seriousness had to be approached by indexation, why it had to be built into criteria both population and migration, and I would say population by mile square. That's why it took far more to go to the criteria of war damage and I'd say removing the consequences of war. If we'd put all that in those criteria, we'd be different. True, it would be perhaps 100, 150 units of local self-government more covered, but surely we could calmly break the existence of other laws. But, of course, at the same time, they wouldn't change the Units Act, finance units of local self-government, and take away their funds because we changed the Income Tax Act. That's why he's trying to find a solution with this kind of flat-rate solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92622	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you have indeed defined precisely in your part of the debate in such a way that, above all, the objectives that we want to achieve in this part of the Regional Development Act are, above all, to reduce regional inequalities, also to help less developed areas and of course, the most important thing to do with the use of EU funds. You also mentioned that it depends on the efficiency of work, the efficiency of work both primarily of the ministry and above all on local and regional self-government. The efficiency of work depends also on investment in economic infrastructure, municipal infrastructure. Of course, you were also talking about capacities. It's an extremely important capacity, primarily fiscal, but especially those human. But it's another thing now when we talk about the efficiency of the work that we may not have analyzed within the local administrations themselves, we're always talking about the territorial structure. But let's talk a little bit about the operating structure. It happens to us that the funds that someone will get now more or less give those funds instead of economic and municipal development directs them into something else. So let's say that when you analyze a little bit you have certain municipalities, and they have about 3,000 people, and there are 60 employees, there are 4 budget users meaning kindergartens, some of the utility companies and other institutions that they are. This means, by all means, the entire cost exceeds perhaps over 80% of its original budget revenues. Now, the question is if through this law he is also given a certain amount of funding whether or not the local community can respond to those objectives that are, which is the efficiency of work and certain regional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92624	Answer, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92625	I thank my colleagues for this replica because I can now say my thoughts. I'm not your supporter of changing your territorial structure. Because if they want some citizens to have their own unit of local self-government. But as a financier, I always advocate a change of the Law on Local Self-Government. That's why I mentioned when we've been struggling for three years with this law that I expected to change the Law on Local Self-Government. However, the debate was in the government but in what direction? That local self-governments have their responsibilities depending on fiscal capacity. So if there is no fiscal capacity that anyone could take care of preschool age, education, any health care, sports and art clubs at that time has no right to the number of professional employees. Then both the chief and the others are not professionally employed but are volunteers. And such changes to the Law on Local Self-Government would not have given us the same authority as some small municipality, let me mention mine in Rijeka, Klan, which simply has too few inhabitants, but would depend on the fiscal capacity being known what it can deal with. So be it, so it'll be protocolable, so it'll deal with some communal procedures because it'll always have income based on real estate taxes and everything. But when we talk about the upgrade and taxation of citizens and businessmen, it won't have that independence, it'll be done by someone else. And then there wouldn't be 60 employees. But the Law on Local Self-Government was to be amended. That's what we've been saying for the last 10 years. There is no change and that is why we have these bad solutions so that we point out that the irresponsible individual local self-government then gives the right I would tell the Proposer that several times and talks about the irrationally spent money and too many employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92626	Thank you very much. We will now hear the opinion of the Croatian Labourists, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92627	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Most of those who have debated this bill rightly were actually discussing a package of laws. And this one on regional development and the one that follows on the financing of local, regional self-government or those that we have already discussed on income tax that has a change in its consequences and a very big change in the fiscal capacities of local self-government. In my debate, I will not start from the local level and take no municipality or city or county as an example because it is under the quotes "my" or "otherman's". I will deal with the whole, jurisdiction and funding of local self-government and I think that at this very moment the time has matured to argue that the issue of the obligations or powers of local self-government in Croatia is in no way appropriate to these fiscal capacities. That's what counterpart Linic just said, because the essence of funding is when it comes to the tax system facing income tax. According to fiscal capacities, for the 16th year in a row, the weakest fiscal capacities have counties, municipalities and cities in the so-called city. green Croatia. After all, this law shows it. Vice-President Greekic said, media reported, never more municipalities and cities were in the assisted area with the same amount of money as so far, about a billion and 200. It's a quote of his numbers from before. What does that mean? Yeah, the same mass, so they're all going to have less, some nothing, some little less, some much less. I don't know if he was aware when he said it but that's about it. And I end in principle the following, such significant laws that have come with as little data of financial nature as they are now following the scandalous behaviour of the Government when it proposes laws in the Croatian Parliament. Either the government doesn't have those calculations or it does, but it doesn't want to give them to parliamentarians. What does this law bring to municipalities and cities in financial terms? So, the first and second group of assisted areas of profit tax collected in their area, but those who enter for the first time in 4 years to reach 100%. If the data has not radically changed 90% of the profit tax is charged to Osijek, Rijeka, Zagreb and Split. All of these municipalities, these 264 are known to have the headquarters of banks and multinational companies that earn profits. But well, how much money from the profit tax that these 264 municipalities and cities will receive as a gift state is a simulation for 2015? There's nothing written down. Second, the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials for the production of construction material. How much is the projection that in 2015 will it go in favour of these 264 municipalities? Because concession revenues only from the title of raw materials for the production of construction materials do not exist anywhere. There are contractual concession rights. So how many million kunas or billions? Does the government, sir... Do you know that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Third, tickets from entering national parks, if the income is greater than 15 million then 6.5% net of that. How much of this title does he plan to choose in 2015 to benefit the local self-government? A thousand, two? I don't know, tell us how much money is that? Fourth, state aid. In the state budget for this year, the item was 309 million; 548 million are planned for next year. That's a $238 million increase. It remains unclear whether in this mass of 548 million for the following year all 264 municipalities and cities and those 400 million aids or gifts to the state that has so far been in the category of tax deductions or overpaid income tax are listed. "The policy of regional development is based on the mutual solidarity of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.", it's a quote from the law. This solidarity is calculated on the basis of the development index. The municipalities and cities are classified in four groups, the county in five. Is the basic formula for calculating the development index most happily affected? I don't know, but the fact that in the accompanying documents for the bill, we didn't get the classification of these municipalities and cities, and despite the fact that so far, fiscal capacities are weak and therefore it takes "solidarity." Of the 264 municipalities and cities of the first and second groups, of the 556 units of local self-government as much as there is a income tax cut in Croatia today, there are only 128 of them, there are 136 of them. Up to 5% of these 128 of them 63, 501 to 10% of them 63 and a higher cut of 10% of the city. The other 292 municipalities and cities that are not covered by the first and second groups should manage themselves when it comes to development. Tax taxes don't pay the poor, they don't pay without pay, with small salaries and small pensions. They expect solidarity with the others they have. They don't have a cut. Is it the obligation of municipalities and responsible authorities to put all their local resources into operation before seeking help from others, one of the mechanisms is a tributary. And regardless of the amount of money that would be collected from that title, the principle is, who is exercising the right to call for solidarity? But that's not all, in 2011 and 2012, of these 264 municipalities and cities, 92 of them at the end of the year or during the year were write-off claims, 17,5 million kuna were written off of those 264. All the data I'm presenting is official, these are now from the state audit findings. Of these, 264 111 municipalities and cities took measures to collect their revenues, 123 did not take anything to collect their local revenues and 30 took partial measures. I repeat, 123 municipalities and the city have not taken any action to collect local revenues according to the state audit report. The most common are municipalities and cities that have no cuts, which have written off their claims, that is not all original revenues are both municipal contributions and communal fees. In 2011 the municipal contribution was charged by all municipalities and cities of 636 million, the municipal fee of a billion and 300 without Zagreb, the City of Zagreb charged about 980 million, that is, when you add it all together is 3 billion kuna of municipal contributions and communal fees. When you look at the mass of paid municipal contributions and fees in certain counties, so that the municipalities and cities charged, the minimum amounts of municipal contributions were charged in the counties, the area of municipalities and cities which in the coefficient were the least developed. Of these 264 municipalities and the city have 1197 employees, 466 tenants, which is a total of 1664 of 8240 employees in all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. And whatever this data is when you take and analyze it turns out that the least fiscal liability to local incomes, the least attempt at collection, that municipal contributions and taxes are made under the minimum terms and conditions, and that there are no more than half of the municipalities and cities, as well as the number of employees, as well as employee expenditure. According to state audit data again, all municipalities, all cities, all counties, compared to their expenditures, the average for the staff is 21.4%, 21.4. When you take the cost structure for employees of this local self-government, it's over 30%. Unfortunately, and therefore, we believe that the development index should be seen as a criterion for gaining status. One or another index, no matter what. He gives the status. But in order for status rights to be realised, then the state has to have safeguard mechanisms and say, the right to solidarity with those who have something and those who have too little or have little will, once they have introduced what the laws provide for the original income of the local community, which is a cut at a minimum rate that we agree on or on average. It is a collection and taking measures to collect local income without a write-off. This is a municipal contribution and a communal fee that cannot be less than the average in Croatia with a charge of at least 80% or at least as much as the percentage of the payment of state claims or in that county is the average. And the number of employees in city and municipal administrations cannot exceed a certain number, or to the number of inhabitants. When these conditions exist, but not by application and not by emergency procedure, but by 01.01.2016., then each municipality and city independently decides whether they will be the beneficiary of these rights that the law adopts and satisfys these conditions or will be left without it and manage otherwise. We have to give her the right choice. We believe that the issue and the appeal of solidarity and the requirement of solidarity must be met with certain conditions because it is about the same as someone who says that he is poor, and half of his income is spent on luxury or something else. Discipline of local self-government is also needed because of this since '92. When we first set up the municipal system in this way, we had 69 cities, today 127, then there were 409 municipalities, today 429, that means 78 new municipalities were founded. By law on local self-government and jurisdiction, we must finally bring into contact with fiscal capacity and then help through this law, but in these conditions that I have previously stated will not cause resistance because it only raises the next question – why those who have a cut in the last 10 years... of communal contributions and compensation 90%,.... And all the data I've given you about these 264 plus 65, from the cut to the number of employees, sir... in these tables, I'm going to give it to you, maybe it'll help you prepare some other law regulations because obviously in one place the government doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92628	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas, Nadia Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92629	Your Honor, Vice President. So, colleague Lesar, when you said that actually local self-government units could use certain state aid, that before that you should use all available resources, or whatever they have as a possibility of charging to yourself, then I agree with you. So, the fact is, you said it yourself, that a huge number of local self-government units didn't call a cut in addition to income. Some have done so in symbolic percentages. I know a municipality that, as a result, would meet that condition to get some help from the state inscribed a 1% cut. So we really can't take it seriously. On the other hand, you said that there are many units of local self-government, so municipalities and cities that don't work very hard, or they're quite comfortable in how they're trying to collect their original incomes. We're talking first of all about the communal fee and the communal contribution. So, and here I agree with you, on a regular basis every year we have reports from the State Audit Office that confirm it. In one word, we really need to discipline the units of local self-government, introduce order, and I sincerely hope that this law will do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92630	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92631	Yes, the view that the local community must first use all its potentials, which the laws foresee and choose and charge for it is correct because when it is sought solidarity with others, we have arguments. And at this point, in a hurry, and I saw, but... Yes, I found it. In Istrian County, it's that municipality that has 1%. I said I suggest the index brings status in order to achieve the right. The question of a cut or at an average rate that exists or at a minimum for which we agree. Not 1%, of course, of course it would be an act, and according to the Office of State Audit based on these tables, it's just amazing that more than half of the municipalities and cities have claims, and that in the course of the year they haven't taken a single payment measure, and then it turns out that their fiscal capacity is 10 or 15% weaker than those that are originally even poorer. That irresponsibility is unfortunately the head, the mayor and the mayor can't be solved by decree, for so long, and we know how, because we're all until we're... in the pocket, and that's exactly this mechanism. To have the right to something, you just have to, if not, then it's not going and it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92632	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92633	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Your Honor, We waited for this law for a long time, longer than many others, and at the time when we were waiting for this law, as someone in the replicas has already said, things have worsened in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia that we will need great effort if we have them to fix it at all. If we look at the table we get in view of the index of development of certain areas and individual municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and look at the first 50, we will see that there are below 50% of the development index that has been established. So from 19% of how much Kistanje goes down to Dežanovac or the chapel that goes up to 49%. We're going to see everyone who knows what the situation is and what the picture is in these municipalities, we're going to see that both demographic and developmental and in every other way, there's been a decline and there's a lagging of enormous proportions, we'd say historical proportions. The state in which Kistanje is located today or the state in which Kapela is located is comparable to the state in which they were located at the beginning of the 20th century, only with an enormous demographic weakness, only with an enormous weakness with capacities in at least primary agricultural production, and then there was, and today we have no such assumptions. But when you look at the development index, then we can compare it to that period. In other words, it is indeed a historic downturn in which the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia practically returns for a century or takes us back, when it comes to the development index. And when it comes to the potential for development, it's less than that, then it can actually be realized that they are in a period of the 17th century when demographics and economics were actually devastationed and that's the condition. And we are, of course, exhausting ourselves on stories about the bad sides of socialist modernization, about the bad sides of modernization at all, and at the same time, our eyes are growing underdeveloped and lags that have scales of disaster, not natural disasters, but socio-political disasters or economic-political disasters. For this reason anyone who wants to change will welcome the adoption of this law. It is a pity that it has been lost for 3 years because there have been several generations of laws that have been under discussion in the ministry, to a high degree of completeness and to the extent that they were almost at the door of this assembly, but there has always been a reason why it has been delayed, to refer to this bill. We have now received a bill that represents the general framework of regional development policy for the Republic of Croatia, a general framework missing the Regional Development Strategy, and it is a pity that this strategy is not expressed before the law itself, Mr Deputy and colleagues. I remember when we discussed the Law on Higher Education and Science, then we said not first the law as some wanted, but first the strategy and this year we finally adopted a strategy. Now we're assuming we're passing the law. This law is fortunate to have a structural character, so then there is room for a strategy that will then be able to help to make things concrete and make things useful to those who, by virtue of this law, took over the authority of themselves to actually run regional policy. Now here we come to an important point of this law. So the legislator decided that the ministry, that the agency proposed to be set up by this law... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, it's already established. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In other words, first of all, the ministry and the ministry and institutes proposed by the law of urban agglomerations across urban centres and larger urban centres that as the basic entities of development policy be those who will plan the development strategy. Many units of local self-government, first of all these 50 that I have listed, and this is still going to be 50 others that are not below 50% of the development index but are below 100% or 125% of the development index, where will be their vote? Where will their influence be? How will they say what is necessary for their development? We agree, of course, that larger urban centres should be development centres, as some have succeeded, most unfortunately failed. Zadar has succeeded to a certain extent but has not reached Benkovec or Gospić, and the islands I am not talking about. So he got about to Zemunik, but no further than that. Unfortunately, ma'am, he didn't leave the market, and about the eastern part of the municipality of Korenica and Lapca, I don't want to talk. How do you change that, how do you allow these units of local self-government to be forgotten, to hear their voices? These are important questions that will need to be answered. Two things I want to say when it comes to the fund. It is good that there is a fund that will help units that have some kind of status of assisted municipalities, but it is unclear how decisions will be made. It will remain in the ingenuity of the minister or the intelligence of the ministry. It would be very important and very important if criteria were adopted that would exclude any possibility of arbitration. And the same goes for the development index. We would like to see the law define what the development index will look like, which are elements on which the development index will be calculated, whether demographic criteria will be taken into account, whether the impact of the crisis will be taken into account, whether population density will be taken into account, whether difficult circumstances will be taken into account when unit areas of local self-government etc. In other words, we would like the development index to be clearer or clearer. And two more things that we think are particularly important. We welcome the fund planned by the Ministry of Regional Development, but this will not help revitalise the economy and economic activities in these areas. It will help municipalities in their programs, for infrastructure, which is fine. But how are you going to improve livestock farming, how are you going to improve warfare, how are you going to improve cooperatives? Through rural development? We're not sure. Why, Mr. Deputy Minister, why for these areas that have been historically neglected now, we can now say the speeches are actually about the historical decline, so all these 100 municipalities in the area of different counties. Why not consider an instrument that would allow them to be revitalised faster and more direct. Why aren't you thinking about a special fund? Why, why wouldn't there be a fund for regional development of a specific area that is necessary? I think that's especially when mountain-mounted, border areas are necessary and we'll make arguments in further debates when it comes to this. When there's uncertainty about funding a local self-government unit, it's a serious problem. for a large part of the unit of local self-government, the transition to the funding system foreseen by the application of this law and with the current system cannot remain a vague matter. Most of the local self-government units that would find themselves in a situation where they don't have the state's help to function, you could shut them down tomorrow. You can decide tomorrow that they are gone and that these units of local self-government are gone. The same goes for the others I mentioned. Finally, we believe that, on this proposal for a law, the additions should be made or proposals for additions, in particular given the areas which are ethnically mixed, which are return areas and which are border areas for the purpose of ensuring the sustainability of life in those areas, for the reasons of the sustainability of ethnic communities located in these areas and for the safety of border areas, we will propose that, in Article 40i, the amendment to which the communities in the area will be taken into account. And the same is true when, in the context of Article 45, we think it is very important to continue housing in assisted areas as a measure of settlement and return of refugees, but also as well as a measure of economic activity in this area. The fact that there has been no renewal in the past two years and no housing in these areas has reversed these areas in their economic activity. For the past 10, 15 years, unfortunately reconstruction and housing have been the main activities with reconstruction and infrastructure in the area. For this reason, we will propose an amendment and we ask you to take this fact into account, in particular, in view of the perspective of the status of the Law on areas of special state concern. The SDSS representative club agrees with those who believe that this law will need to be seen in the perspective of a set of other laws to be passed. But what we consider particularly important, as I have said and what I want to underline once again, this law and the fund that is planned at the Ministry of Regional Development and the means that should be from the rural development programme will not be enough in particular if we are talking about the category of municipalities that I mentioned at the beginning of my historic fall, and for this reason we propose that an additional instrument be formed either as an instrument of the HBOR either as a special fund that needs to be passed by law to ensure the assumptions of a more rapid revitalisation of these areas. Otherwise it will be demographic and economically definitely lost areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92634	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92635	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, given that I know the geography well, and the history of the Republic of Croatia, you reminded me of your debate on my one journey, and actually several of them on the road, so when he turns off from the state road in Grazac towards Bruno, Mazin, Lapca,... and Circle towards Bihac, believe me, I already know that you probably know that there are 300 houses in the top of his head. It's all the area along the border with BiH, so it's a simple area of huge squares in kilometers and completely uninhabited. It is simply the soft belly of Croatia towards BiH, an area that was once rich mainly in livestock and in these branches of agricultural production. Here is an example of Gornji Žirovac, Brezovo Polje towards the Shops and Dvor, also along the border with BiH, a completely demographically almost dead area where we do not have any inhabitants of Croatia, and sometimes very rich in various activities mainly of livestock production. And this should be cared for by the Ministry of Regional Development, regardless of what people live there and Irony on that road from Žirovec to the Castle of Croatia Alamo which we mention very often in the debates, but I say regardless of the national people who live there once a very lively area, today when we look at the area in BiH along with our Croatian areas very much alive from Buzima, Cazin, Krupa and everything else, and that I don't speak in Bosnia and Herzegovina other areas, in our country in Croatia Three-time fewer residents and three-time smaller economics... [[Thank you. Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92636	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92637	Dear fellow Grubisic, unfortunately, if you start from Senj to Bihać and if you go 5 to 10km north of Sibenik, so from Prokljan Lake, you will practically have to the Hungarian border the situation you described, going from Gračac to Lapac and Bihac. And what's the problem and I talked about it earlier in a private conversation with esteemed Vice President Batinic, what's the problem is that this trend continues and does not stop. And that's why passing this law is the last chance but this is what he's proposed, with instruments like this isn't enough to stop it. We can't complain about the fact that Bihac has a population like that in a pole. We can't complain about that, but we can complain about the fact that from this space, from Martin Brod to practically the river gates with the exception of the Gospić area, we have a demographically weaker and more economically and economically weaker area. And these are areas where there were up to 200,000 sheep, or sheep’s throats. You can't even find 20 grand today when you get here. For this reason, it is extremely important that this model that the state has taken to go from the bottom up but to create additional instruments to improve these areas and encourage people to live there and live in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92638	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92639	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. In fact, many of us here expected with this bill of law and the debate that we would get answers to a number of questions. And we're also aware that no law can solve certain problems that accumulate, pile up for years. But the Croatian People's Party club will support this Act with certain remarks, proposals, I hope it will be respected. And what we believe is that this law is a good framework for a far better regional policy-making than it has ever been. Let's remember in 2008, especially those who were in local self-government, we were waiting for the then Regional Development Act, then indexation, a series of measures from the formation of the fund, from the support, means all of this, let's say in some way, is now contained in this law. However, what is the fact that this regional policy has simply not been implemented within those frameworks that have been adopted and drawn. Also, the strategy which ceased to apply last year has not received some results. All this says is that, I say, both the intention was good and the strategy and the existing law, however, as well as all the laws as well as this law and what is expected of it are implemented by people. First, what I would like to say is that I consider this law as a quality framework, primarily to adopt one strategy for the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, which will cover all areas and where, in some ways, with one quality picture of the situation, it will define what and how certain regions in which it can be developed. When you look at what is crucial and what in some way reflects the situation in Croatia, these are our regions or units of regional or regional self-government, these are counties. And when we look at over 50% of the county is below 75% of the development index. All 3 are, these are statistical data from the Ministry of Regional Development only 3 are between 75 and 100%, 3 are from 100 to 125 and 3 are over 125. That only speaks of one great inequality, one diversity. I wouldn't want to talk about the developed north now, about the underdeveloped I don't know the east or the south or the developed west, etc. We have a foundation. The fact is that what may have been controversial in this law and it was also in the past law disputed, it is primarily the index of development that the current, valid, i.e. the Development Index Regulation tells the way of calculation. And Article 8 says the unemployment rate is weighted by 30%, income per capita with 25, budget income units of local, or regional self-government with 15, general population movements with 15, and education rates with 15%. If the development index respected all this said, counterpart Lesar gave a far more plastic picture of the budgets, of the obligation, of the potential of local self-government units that should be the main generators, key ones, each in its area with the support and regional self-government and ministries to be the bearers of regional development of their local environments or regions then we see that we have one colour, one color. So, unfortunately, this development index which I am not satisfied with and the HNS club is not, and that is also a recommendation and suggestion to the Government, and we will try to do so through the proposal to amend certain articles of the law to be installed, that this development index is not enough in view of the colouring of Croatia only 5 key factors. The neighbouring environments have 10, 15 and the basis of these development indices, i.e. these factors can be far more high-quality data on the level of development of individual environments. This means a factor, a five-factor development index, it is applicable to the level of regional self-government. So up to the level of the county can also be applied to larger centres defined by law as urban environments, as bearers of development. However, the lower units of local self-government give one false idea, giving one false image. Therefore, our proposal will be that in part of the specifics, Article 32, which defines in the current index of development proposal, is that in Article 33(2), the evaluation of the level of development referred to in paragraph 1, is carried out in the year before the start of the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union, which is to say that a new development index should be revived, i.e. a record or indexation of 2021. That's way too long for us. What our proposal is, our thinking and also in part of Article 38 means for those units of local and regional self-government that fail to maintain the status of the assisted area the deadline says in a transitional period of three years. We suggest that there be four. So that through this one measure, it's not too much financial cost or spending on the state budget, that they're getting the transition to be less painful than it would be if it were over three years old. And that indexation, i.e., means assessing the degree of development of a completely new index that would have far more factors, to be made within the fifth year of the entry into force of this law and to start to apply from the age of six independently of the European Union's financial perspective, with monitoring being done as stated in the draft law. So we have a few categories. Islands have their own law. So these units that have entered the assisted area, that have come out, and those that are now going to enter the new indexation that are qualitatively and quantitatively monitoring the results of the effect. These data would also be the basis for a new indexation, and also a strategic document, which I hope will be the topic of next year's development strategy, regional development that can be complemented by a series of measures, complement everything on a balanced regional development situation in the Republic of Croatia. What was said was said in the debate, I think it was fellow Boric reporting. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on the results of the implementation of the development policy no later than 1 December of the current year for the previous year. That's what I was talking about. That's good because everyone, I think the Croatian Parliament is as a representative body, I don't want to reduce the importance of the government, but that the Parliament is the key that can, which makes laws, legislative proposals, recommend that after four years we see the effects of the implementation of this law and a series of other laws that we will still discuss. What's certainly hard not to say when we talk about regional development and the state, we're on track for about 20 years of this structure of local self-government. We've got a huge glass of paint. I believe that it is clear to all why this development index is also made up of these key composite factors, because if by any chance indexation were to trace the incomes of individual units of local self-government or income if it were one of the key factors then it would have a development of 50 to 500 percent. It just shuts it down, and there were some colleagues who talked about it, and we sort of thought within the HNS how to correct that development index. But I'm saying, you don't need to invent hot water. The neighbouring environments have 10, 15 key elements regarding the development index. And I say you should look at their effects as well. What I would also like to say, and that's what we talked about on behalf of the club on the subject and the audit reports, about the efficiency of the bill, about what we're talking about, let's just say the problem of local self-government through some other legal proposals. I think it's high time this House started getting a lot more serious than we've discussed so far about reforming local self-government. It was expected that this legislative proposal and the Law on the financing of the unit of local self-government would open the topic. Of course, she's always open, but she'll be able to look at the problem in an integrated way. I believe that this will follow a strategy which would be a good way to finally touch that hot potato on many, in my opinion, not personally, a problem in local self-government. Namely, I would just like you probably all to know more or you are informed first of all who, namely which color, which structure, which jurisdiction within the Republic of Croatia has. So for example, the municipality of Dvor has 5800 inhabitants, belonging to the first group below means 50% development. Here you can see from all indicators of average income per capital, from tax income per capita, that it is certainly a municipality of which you should take a very good account. Does in the future, given the 9 employees, of the 3 budget users, of their total income that it has and, the potential definitely exists, but does it have the capacity to run its own local development? We have another case, Croatia's Kostanica with 2763, that's statistics, 22 employees, 22 figures and a letter, which turns out to be 1 employee per 125 residents. Well, that's awesome. One employee has 125 citizens around them, these citizens have a perfect trust service. In the second group is between 50% and 75%, and now the average income per capital is almost 25 thousand kuna, and the average original income per capital is taxed in 1819. A little bit when you add up those indicators, that data, I've listed exactly the extremes that they are, why does the city of Kostanica have so many employees? That's the question. Once again many will say you enter autonomy, you're breaking the charter, but definitely there, I believe we'll all agree I won't say I need to make the order but there's a review to be done. In fact, we have a number of other environments that I'm not now counting on, which have much less income, tax revenue, they've exhausted all opportunities and, of course, through the tax on, excuse the bill that we've already voted on, income tax will have a reduction. Many will get, many will lose, no, I would say we all lose, no one gets. But we're gonna lose our colleagues and colleagues until we start implementing our laws. This is also a proposal to the Deputy Minister, we definitely need to start with a Regional Development Strategy that must cover, because we are practically aware that over two-thirds of the territory of Croatia is a rural area, and what about rural development, which is with urban centres. And after that strategy, I believe that next year, in 2017, I believe that we will be much wiser and that we will be able, that the next Government, or I am convinced of our Government, will bring certain acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92640	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92641	Thank you very much. Mr Batinić spoke about the assessment of the situation to be carried out after 4 or 5 years. If this law enters into force and applies from 2016, and you said it should be brought into line with the cycle of European elections following 2020 or 2021, so at the transition, then when we take 2016 and 4 years or 5 years, it actually corresponds to the new structure of the European Parliament and the new European Government. Well, I don't understand your point. On the other hand, when we talk about these 117 municipalities and cities in Slavonia and Baranja who are 23 years old, let me say, perhaps waiting for such a legislative proposal that is finally trying to achieve a balanced development of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, given the state and index of development, so that after 4 years they would immediately carry out some kind of review. So if for 23 years we were in Slavonia and Baranja, our 117 municipalities and cities, some even ended up in a prison in Mostar for such things, and you know why. It's about the situation in HDZ and then to say misunderstanding within HDZ. So for 23 years, Slavonia has been waiting for some sort of unification of that condition. Now we have come to beg for the solidarity of others with the state of Slavonia and Baranja. So I'm not against reviewing, where luck is that municipalities in Slavonia and Baranja develop so much that they don't need any help anymore. But after four years of reviewing, I think we can do whatever we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92642	Thank you. Replica response, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92643	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, my colleague Grubisic is about proposing that the revision be 2 years earlier than it is in this bill. The revision does not mean abolishing, you may not have noticed, so reviewing the development index in such a way that with the current 5 factors there are 10, 15 or 20. So before that, bring a Regional Development Strategy which should certainly include a rural space with one special to be thematically processed, and there is certainly Slavonia, because it is specific. We are also aware of the economic impact, agriculture or other industries. So that doesn't mean the Slavons will lose or someone, no, we all have to win. It doesn't mean in your pocket but to get some tools, instruments and ways. The fact is that this bill as well as the other laws of that we are aware must put into the context of time and space. We all know what a public debt is, we all know the state of the budget, and we have to act that way. So the revision of the development index in a way that from the current 5 factors for revision should be this strategy and the footage of the situation in the previous four years, which does not mean losing someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92644	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92645	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, first of all, an esteemed colleague would look back on your discussion. At first, you were talking about the development index, and you said about a relatively developed north, Gorski kotar, etc. I would always say that one false perception can be said of the great development of the north, and especially of Croatian Zagorje, there we can also talk about Podravina and Međimurje compared to other seas, yet concretely. Perhaps we can only talk about a higher efficiency of work and activity in this area compared to others. And now this other thing that I'd like to mention and that I wanted to highlight in your debate, that's this data that you've given around maybe some local self-government, municipalities or cities about its efficiency. Well then maybe I can say that maybe some of us are doing wrong, we're doing wrong that, here's a town where I'm headed shouldn't have been 10 years old just 8 employees to show business efficiency, we should really have 20, 60 employees, we'd be more employees, we might be more efficient and even better, maybe we should be in a minus, constant minus or budget minus 10 years, we haven't been a year, as we had a very nice part of the example in Croatia that is constantly some local units are down. We can talk about how some mayors boast that they've cut their wages by 30% and become national heroes at national level, and you forgot that they've had 18 thousand salaries, so they've cut to 15 grand, while some of those same colleagues with a lot of maybe better situations have had twice as much pay. So we're talking about this efficiency of work and investment, not perhaps in what we've heard today in luxury, in some great sports fields, but those concrete things that are and there should be very much taking care of these assisted areas, of state-level support to really see who needs support, who doesn't need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92646	Thank you. Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92647	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That fellow Skvarić, the figures do not distort, can give one perhaps false idea. As far as the north is concerned, you're from there, you know very well. The most effective local self-government, the lowest wages, 25% lower than the average of Croatia, the lowest number of employees in local self-government units, efficiency at the highest level. I wouldn't agree with that maybe if it were some sort of punishment for why others might just be waiting to win, etc. It's a question and a little bit of dare to say mentality and thinking, but also the views of certain political options. As far as I'm concerned, and I believe that you've read from my debate, means for this time period of this community coming out of the mountain-mounted area, meaning this transition period, my proposal is for our club to go for four years and have special monitoring, monitoring would dare say, that there are also national funds, the EU funds absolutely refer, because we're aware that the state doesn't have much money precisely for the reasons after four years, the footage of the situation of everything that has been done, so we don't have malts in the Island Act every year or every other we have a report on the effects of the implementation of that law. This is what the HNS Club suggests and on the law on regional development and these legal proposals that are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92648	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92649	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. When we listen to these, here's the 8, 7 club in turn, when we listen to all these speakers today, then we would say that the water has reached the throat in all the municipalities, and cities and counties of the Republic of Croatia. And now how to make some distribution according to the development index in five factors and five of those coefficients that you have identified as important for the assessment of the development index. Let's not talk about who they are now, let's say, so average income per capita, average unemployment rate, population movement, share of educated population in 16 to 65 years. And in this index of development, whenever we look at how we turn this table from development to underdevelopment or from underdevelopment to development Slavonia stands so that of 120 of these municipalities, of 128 municipalities and cities in Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, 117 belong to the first and second groups, so those who have less than 75% of the index of development of the Republic of Croatia. And if we took the EU as some measure, then we would see that all five Slavonian-Baranja-Srijem Countys belong at a rate of 35% of the development or average EU development, only 35%. When we look at Croatia, we're even better than 35%. When you look at this development index table, then you can notice that among the 100 most underdeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is 59 from Slavonia, Srijema and Baranja, among the first, worst to say so according to development, the development index of 100 59 is Slavonic. With 100 most developed Croatian municipalities and cities there is only one that belongs to that group, which is the city of Osijek which has so they are all for 100% development of the Republic of Croatia only Osijek with 101%. All of them remained from other counties, there is no more Slavonic than among the most developed 100 according to these indices or factors taken as indicators of the development index. Today we hear a variety of mourners here, and it is true that everyone has to complain because this country has been brought to the brink of bankruptcy and no one here is well anymore in this country, no municipality or mountainous, no Zagorje-Dalmatia, no one in the islands, no one in the mountainous areas, no one in the mountainous areas, no one in the plains or nowhere, no good anywhere. And why isn't it good? Well, because weak masters are weakly managed by this country, as well as by many units of local self-government. So there's water up to everyone's throat, but now we have this famous 75% development index and there are 117 Slavonian municipalities and cities in which, when we look at all Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, there are a total number of people in Slavonia and Baranja, then those 11 developed from 128 in Slavonia and Baranja have a total of 350 thousand inhabitants, and only 450 thousand are covered as an assisted area. So when we look at the number of residents living in assisted areas, municipalities and cities, then it's only 56%, and 44% of people in Slavonia are not covered and do not live in assisted areas, these are towns in Slavonia and Baranja except for Nova Gradiška and Đakov, which belong below 75% and the Cepin municipality is the only municipality in Slavonia and Baranja that is above 75% of the average. I have to say it here because I come from that area and I've studied and promoted this table of the development index or underdevelopment. I also know very well the problems in other areas of the Republic of Croatia, and I am well aware and replicated only by my colleagues Pupovac, and I did not eat it, but then I did not arrive, but quite sure that Slavonia and Baranja said we would finally have seen Slavonia and Baranja until the politics of both sides of the HDZ and the SDP governments brought Slavonia and Baranja. Overpriced and unnecessary imports of 2 billion euros per year that fluctuate here and there for which one million euros led to this, and a number of other measures that suppressed the agricultural and food processing industry on the very side of the margin, led to Slavonia and Baranja today sleeping on a beggar stick like a social case, actually belonging to social care. And now they say don't vote some here for this law. We are angry at everything that happened in the policies of the former government and those before it again, etc. but they say if there are already crumbs that will improve the standard or life of people in these 117 municipalities and cities of Slavonia and Baranja, we shouldn't act on that infuriating beggars empty bag so we don't accept it either. Today for a small crumb, for that salary that increases by 50 or 100 kuna, as voted in the Income Tax Act today, people will be somewhat happier and more satisfied even though it carries the units of local self-government shortfall in their budget but on the personal spending side on personal breakthroughs of people and that's something. So, when we look as a regional party, this law turns out to be the case if this happens because there are large enquiries and everything in terms of the financial situation, the situation in the economy and everything else is going to happen. Unfortunately, we have welcomed Slavonia and Baranja on the turn of events at a time when Croatia is in difficult economic, financial problems to come with this law in order. So said the minister that I am intimate, although I am not intimate, but personally for this law, and in private, don't give God, but unfortunately I'm afraid that this law, which sets out precisely the municipalities of the first and the second groups, so that's under 75%, that's what's going to happen, and that's where it says 2016. Today, 2014 will not have anyone to apply these measures in two years. You don't have any houses in Slavonia and Baranja, no household in which you can't find out that one of your relatives, friends, godfathers went out to work. What will be worth these measures to us, and so Slavonia is destroyed, so one might think about that these measures actually don't know anything about me or Ficus. After 23 years of the Croatian state, we have come to some of the measures where Slavonia and Baranja were found to be destroyed, destroyed by the policy I was talking about, import policy, credit to foreign products and importers who import foreign goods and our, our, call our, Croatian banks whose queens are abroad. They're crediting the import of these foreign products from not to say mostly automotive and other industries, it's sad. That's what we're talking about all the time, that's what we're talking about here, but unfortunately we have... in the ears as they say in Slavonia, and no one hears. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, the work has come to light that 117 Slavonian, Srijem and Baranja municipalities are below 75%... Well, that's what we've been saying all along, and now it's being confirmed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you're going to apply some income tax measures and we're going to get some kind of chemistry to transfer some of the money to Slavonian municipalities. It's too late now, too late for Slavonia, too late. And since 2016, not since the law came into force in 7 days, but since 2016, you will compensate not for municipalities like this so that it is not very sudden and steep that some municipalities that have been in some kind of mercy or as it is said helped not to feel quite the sudden transition, so we will compensate them. How do we compensate them? Give concrete measures, rules, game to see how it compensates. And they're right about those Gorans who were here the other day in the square, 22,000 inhabitants in such an area, a vast area. 82% forest coverage and what's in it for? They complained to me from a company in Slavonska Požega that Croatian forests will not deliver raw materials and will not and will not only in Požega, but in a number of places. I won't speak the name of these companies here, but what does the director of the Croatian Forest do? It prevents the development of the wood-processing industry. Is that his place? Is that why he was elected director of the Croatian Forests? Instead of developing this final or semi-final production that exists from wood. What were we once known for in the former state of Europe? Kitchens, bedrooms, furniture, parquetry, furnier, whatever you want. Where's Guy, Podravska Slatina? There's no Guy. Where are the others? There isn't. They destroyed the spach with certain malfeasances where the former minister wanted to do some kind of service to help these people and helped people in Spachva but no, it must be destroyed. And it doesn't just destroy that and the RlZ transmitters destroy DUDI, etc., there's a lot in this country. The Immunological Institute destroys the state, no one else, the government destroys it. And you can't possibly, the INA is destroying the state. Where are our oil fields? Exploitation? Where's Syria? How much have they been sold for and what are they worth? There are many things, and now we are going to pass the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, and then we set up an agency and then a council, as the partnership here says, and then partnership and cooperation. And so a series of other bodies, partner councils around the county, and LAGs and regional development agencies, so I don't know what. And that they would spend a year reviewing projects and projects in those regions and in those counties. Well, that should have been over by now. Well, we're members of the European Union a year and a half ago. Well, it took projects and projects a long time ago. What do we do now? It will wait for these 117 municipalities in 2014, 2015 to enter into force in 2016. I'm thinking if we're going to be in or out of this and we're not going to make a statement, here I am not even going to say today, we're going to think more, we have time to vote on this law. So, Croatia, I have to go back a little bit to history, like, especially when Pupovac was saying, at the time of King Tomislav's 1000th year, there were 5 million residents, so say some data, perhaps even legends, had 100 warships Thank you very much.... and... she had 50 warships, let's look at the situation today. [[Zgrebec: Col. Grubisic's time is up, so you will say in replicas... And at the time, England had 3 million inhabitants and.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92650	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92651	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic agrees with your debate and with what you have determined that this law will not do any good and Slavonia will be as every year regarding the budget. You remember how the prime minister said he'd take care of Slavonia and you'd be worried about this law the same way. Because we can talk in another direction about what will happen if this law doesn't pass. We have a law that is in force, this change is only in one important part, which is that of Article 39, 40, which introduces programs that need to compensate for something, funds that will be supervised by the Minister with their own discretion, funds that the report and spending of money will be submitted only by the Government to themselves. And indexation is a good story. Slavonski Brod has an index of 80% and the municipality of Vir, you have there I think some real estate of 143%. Now compare these two environments to me so tell me is this really the most developed municipality in the Republic of Croatia, the Vir Municipality? The bone's above it, then Vir. Here are two of the most developed municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and rightly everyone now warns that indices are not good. Now I looked quickly at what our neighbours Eastern, Serbia, their Regional Development Act. Look at their indicators, i.e. The factors that create their development index, the em that count them every year, every year. We have here now, and the budgets change every year, so we're going to have weaker budgets, but the index is going to stay as if it's always the same. Well, at least let's make sure that it's alive and these municipalities are coming in, going out, given how their budget revenues are going to move, not that we're going to cement them now and let them stay on a 2012 index for seven years. Done. So let's do something as parliamentary deputies because nothing special is going to happen without this law being passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92652	Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92653	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, I don't know which Prime Minister you were referring to. There was one who said not strong Croatia as strong as the city of Zagreb but Croatia is as strong as its edge parts are. That was your prime minister, so 6-7 years ago, so he said, but unfortunately he didn't do anything, he did nothing but lock up a fighter for Slavonia, put him in jail. But as far as the Slavonski Brod's development index is concerned, it's 81%, and the Vir Municipality is exactly 148, let's round 147 and something else, 148%. So ask yourselves, you are from Rab, why the municipality of Vir has such an index of development, and according to it is the Law of the Islands as it is for Rab. And when we controlled the application of the Island Law, tell me, when we revised it, when we showed and proved that some islands went into the sphere of developed islands, and left others in an undeveloped sphere. No, never. The island law carries a billion kuna, and it is properly applied for 20 years, without exception. And now you'd be doing audits for Slavonia and Baranja for these two or three years, so it can't be that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92654	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92655	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, in your discussion, you spoke of the state of Slavonia and Baranja, or you said there was no money and that there was a time to support the crumbs. It is clear, and we also hear from the finance minister that Croatia has no money and that the exit is seen in European funds, and today we have heard from the Deputy Prime Minister, or the minister, that he said that with 150 million kuna he wants to actually speed up the withdrawal of money from European funds. Today, we also said in the discussion that this law is actually the basis for withdrawing money from these European funds and no one has mentioned development agencies today, and I think that knowledge is very important how to withdraw it. When you look at only the mission of these development agencies, it's one... institution that certainly performs as teamwork also with economic operators, with public institutions and these development agencies, of course, plan and design, or implement projects that are very important for the economic development of certain cities or regions. However, here it is good that the Deputy Minister, I do not think the Ministry of Regional Development has a list of local regional agencies, in fact local agencies and very few contacts with them. This is good for the first time in this law to mention local development agencies, but I believe that in a better way, a more concrete way should be shown the work of these local agencies, i.e. co-operation with regional agencies. We often have examples of poor co-operation between local and regional development agencies, which is not good for the development of certain areas. Therefore, we expect that a better co-operation will be made between the local and the ministry itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92656	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92657	Thank you very much. My colleague Bonačić, you have said and observed well, there is a Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja in Osijek, which has withdrawn most of its projects in the Republic of Croatia from European funds, pre-accession, Mr. Puljiz knows about it and Mr. Ribić, who is the director or director of the agency. There is also a Slavonski Brod Development Agency (RASB), it is called, however, the Slavonski Brod Development Agency and the Regional Development Agency in Osijek have nothing to do with it, they have no joint project, they have no small relationship as if it were one county in Madagascar and the other in Alaska, and not that the counties bordering one another. So it's not just that there is cross-border co-operation but there is cross-border cooperation between the two counties and programmes that can be implemented by running the two counties that are neighbouring counties. But what you're saying about capacities, can you, I don't know if you've ever been or might be in the municipality of Lenjavska Varoš, which they have professional or financial capacity to apply any project towards the Ministry or the European Union. Well, there's no one there to write that program, let alone have it to finance. Or Caglin municipality in Požega-Slavon County. I'm not going to tell you other municipalities that are here, or Voćin in the Virovitica-Podrava County that have been hit so badly by war in this Homeland War. I mean, we need to be realistic. We were included in Slavonia and Baranja in the northern region together with Zagreb and those with both human potentials and capital so that they could run the project. And what are we going to run there?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92658	Thank you. Nenad dances, replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92659	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Grubisic, you are right when you talk about Croatian forests and the assignment of forest assorts. The mountains have mostly always lived on the forest and the wood industry and have not done anything to make this wood industry collapse, nor have they wondered what they think of the centralisation of the Croatian forests. And Croatian forests are centralized to act as if the state were in the state. When it comes to the division of wood assortings, then I know what I'm talking about, because not a small number of times a small number of the gas stationers in the Gorski Kotar area who are unhappy with the allocation of troops. Because it is easier for Croatian forests to sell raw materials, a gulf as such to a stranger than to assign that halve to small gassers or to larger factories to start the economy. Small gas companies and such factories fail, our local self-government units fail, and this law certainly won't fix it or change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92660	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92661	Thank you very much. I spoke with many employees of the Croatian Forests, I also have them in my county where the management of the forest is in Nova Gradišca, but there are also in Slavonski Brod of the Exhibitions of Croatian Forests. And they told me like this since they know the problem that you and I were talking about, where the current directors of the Croatian Forests will work after the change of government of this Kukuriku coalition. He will be happy if he gets the forest in Lapca, because his negative role is so great that he can best intend the Croatian forests because he has ruined not only the Croatian forests, but the entire wooden industry of Croatia. Well, I don't know as if he's got a chateau, not a Croatian forest. Well Croatian forests are both part of the Croatian state and Croatian people. And secondly, what you're talking about is the area, so today you're looking at all possible here in the documentary selection of Djelo Hadziselimovic, so documentary shows about thermal power plants and biowaste heat. Among them are the halves, the granite, the corn, the curly, and there's nothing else. Unfortunately, there are no such heat and thermal power plants in Croatia. Instead of taking developmental care and care of them, they also clean Croatian forests. Thus, they are maintained in such a way that the granium and the halves are driven away. No, we export to the Pech logs, exports to the Pech for thermoelectric logs, raw materials and says Croatian forests are export-oriented. You can imagine! Trucks of troops go to the cave in the thermal power plant. Shame!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92662	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92663	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the hard part, after several hours of debate, being particularly smart. However, I will try, unlike my colleagues, not to talk about a group of laws, about laws that come only for discussion, but only about this law that is now before us, which is the Law on Regional Development. Because regional development is one of the most important, important segments of the overall economic policy of each country, especially Croatia, which is determined by its different regions that have different cultural, geographical and economic specificities. Such a diversity in such a small space, of course, is the wealth of a country and, of course, it needs to be preserved. However, to preserve above all as a particular development potential of a particular region, and it is equally necessary to encourage balanced economic development in a way that reduces regional inequalities and strengthens the competitiveness of each region. The proposed law on regional development, which is ahead of us, leaves the view that the 2009 legislative solution so far, that it no longer provides to an sufficient extent the necessary institutional and strategic framework for the implementation of the quality policy of the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, and that it is necessary to improve and bring it into line with the new efforts and guidelines of the European cohesion policy. Therefore, this legislative solution is in line with Regulation 1301 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on the European Regional Development Fund of 17 December 2013 which obliges all Member States to target at least 5% of their Regional Fund funds for sustainable urban development through strategies. This harmonisation is based on Article 14 of this legislative proposal and therefore introduces categories of urban anglomerations with an obligation to adopt the Urban Development Strategy, thus creating a basic assumption for the withdrawal of funds from the European Regional Development Fund intended for urban development. It is also a clear definition of urban areas, and a commitment to develop a urban development strategy, thus creating a basic assumption for the withdrawal of funds from the European Regional Development Fund and thus creating a long-term basis for better preparation of development projects, especially those financed by EU funds. In the coming time, so in years and decades ahead, the main source of funding for regional development will be EU funds. However, there were no specific measures in the existing 2009 law concerning co-financing, preparation and implementation of projects financed from European funds. Therefore, Article 42 of this legislative proposal introduces itself as a permanent measure the obligation of the Regional Development Ministry to provide funding and preparation and implementation of projects in accordance with budgetary opportunities. In this way, the use of EU funds should be improved precisely in those environments, in those local communities most lagging behind the EU average towards a level of development. For the purpose of effective planning and implementation of regional development policy, a central electronic base of development projects and development indicators shall be established. At the same time, the Ministry, the Regional Development Holder, has an obligation to adopt a competitiveness programme, and a programme of assisted areas. Both programmes shall be adopted for a four-year period and shall lay down measures to promote regional competitiveness and urban development, i.e. measures and projects to promote the development of assisted areas and other areas with developmental specificities, shall be identified by the operators of the implementation of measures and projects, implementation activities, resources and the methodology for monitoring the implementation and evaluation of individual measures. These programmes, based on the Strategy for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, will form a programme basis for budget planning of the central state body responsible for regional development. One of the additional aid measures for less developed areas provided for in this law is contained in Article 45 of the Law and refers to the establishment of public institutions responsible for managing protected natural areas that generate significant revenues from ticket sales to share those revenues with the local community in which the protected natural area is located. In the SDP club, I also believe that the solutions planned by this law will contribute to strengthening the institutional frameworks, which concern strengthening the role of regional coordinators, the possibility of establishing a partnership council and... statistical regions, the establishment of the Regional Development Council and the possibility of a reasonable agreement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are convinced that these solutions will encourage units of local self-government, municipalities and cities in territorial and institutional cooperation between themselves and other state administration bodies that can contribute to the achievement of regional development policy objectives. We believe that these solutions will allow for better communication and cooperation between all stakeholders of regional development at national, regional and local level and in this way to encourage, above all, inter-sectoral cooperation between the public sector, between the civil sector and between the economic sector in order to make the strategic documents brought by those institutions as high as possible, as sustainable as possible, as possible. Finally, the SDP Representatives Club believes that unifying the methodology for diagnosing assisted areas proposed by this proposal will improve the effectiveness of the grant of support, which is extremely important under the conditions of the economic and financial crisis. The current methodology for identifying assisted areas is methodologically uncoordinated, illogical, unsupervised and ultimately unfair. One of the evidence that this is so is the fact that the latest update of the area of special state care took place in 2003. Since then, no municipalities have entered any city as a new factor in assisted areas even though they had formal conditions. The fact is that even today in the assisted areas in this context, 40% of municipalities and cities whose development index is not above 75% but above 100 and above 125% of the RH's development index is also the fact that almost the same percentage of municipalities and cities below 75, below 50 and below 25% of the RH's development index are not covered by any category of assisted areas. Therefore, it is necessary, and this law also provides for a system of incentives to be linked to the categorization system towards the degree of development. Because we made that decision, that is, that was the decision that was made in the first Regional Development Act of 2009 and... made in 2010 by the previous Government. This categorisation will cover units of local self-government which have not thus far been under the same category of assisted areas, 100 of them, while 65 will lose the right to additional incentives and relief from the state budget, since they do not meet the criteria set by the development index. they are not included in the first or second group under Article 36 of this Act. However, in order to correct the injustices of the old law, it would not generate new injustices for those units which, in so far as I can say, fell out of a system of assisted areas, which primarily refers to those units that were in the mountainous area of this bill in Article 38, provides for a transitional exclusion period of 3 years. During that period, some of the funds will be provided to local self-government units mentioned in the state budget in order to adjust their local budgets. And it's not some kind of fictitious money, it wasn't on the willow, that money was shown in the 2015 Budget. So every municipality and city that's been in the hill-mounted area, and no longer, can count on those funds. And this way of compensation is good, but it's not permanent. The SDP therefore supports the proposal to introduce a new category, which is a specific area, meaning the area with developmental specificities. In Croatia, regardless of the degree of development, there are areas that have certain demographic, economic and other specificities, and such areas also deserve direct incentives from the state budget. So in the Republic of Croatia, we decided to say the sustainability of life on the islands is of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia. We've passed the Island Act. This is where I pull the parallel with the Gorski Kotar. The same as the island's local self-government unit and local self-government units in the Gorski Kotar have a development index above 75%, however, they are part of the assisted areas. We therefore believe that for these reasons, Gorski Kotar is also in the area of special development, that with the developmental specificities and that the Cotar of Gora also deserves special funding from the state budget. In the end, the SDP club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92664	Nenad dances, replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92665	Thank you. Well, you've pulled a parallel between the Gorski Kotar and the island. That's where we can agree, although this didn't impress me at all when you said you'd support a law like this. Because when we look at all the reports of the law being implemented on the islands, it is said that islands are above the average of the development of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm glad that, and that's how it's supposed to stay and stay the island law because it's good for them. But that's why I don't see why the units of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar and the mountain-mounted areas are abolishing that status because they've been developed above the average of the Republic of Croatia. Islands that are also developed above the average of the Republic of Croatia remain their benefits, while mountain-mounted areas are being abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92666	The answer to the replica Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92667	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Plese, here I think that's what my colleague Grubisic said, there are over 500 municipalities and cities in Croatia, and based on today's debates, we should actually have a strategy or law on every municipality and city. But we can't look at it so segmented. So this law binds, we think it's good, so it binds to one criterion and that's the criterion of the development index. If those criteria are perfect, it's not, if we have that criterion, we have it. However, this law therefore proposes some other criteria and this is a criterion as this law recognises it, so areas with various specialities that will also have part of the benefits from the state budget, as do the islands in the Republic of Croatia. This part of the law also has its place of origin, i.e. all areas of the Republic of Croatia that have such specialities, so that they are demographically devastation, which are traffic-insulated, which have a particularly rural character. So all these areas can be found in this law just mattered to look at it and read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92668	Silvano Roasting replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92669	Well, dear colleague, I've listened very carefully to your debate. This termology of developmental specificity, assisted areas, all this is nice and good, have we so far evaluated existing laws and existing support, what has this brought us? Because look, the developmental speciality that we're going to label doesn't mean anything if life stops in a particular area. What developmental feature if you have 80% of people over the age of 60, who will be the bearer of this development in that space? We must return life to certain places because life dies. It's not just a question of Lanisce, it's not a question of Oprtlja, the situation he knows, it's a question of almost all of the Gorski kotar, it's a question of the island, and we should call the Strategy of Survival of Life in certain areas, it doesn't go beyond one day, it doesn't go through one law. I will welcome every good measure we bring here, but it certainly isn't enough for the survival of life in all our regions that we personally love and that are worth our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92670	Damir Matteljan's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92671	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92672	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92673	Thank you. I fully agree with my colleague, Hrelja. So that can't be more accurate. You if, it's actually a negative selection thing. So if in one neighborhood all the young people, all the educated people, all the entrepreneurs, who's left to you? You're left with a couple of old men, you're left with four alcoholics, so you're left with a critical mass of people with whom you can't do anything. You can be Napoleon, you can have charisma I don't know who, but with that critical mass of people complaining God, you can't do anything. This law will not change, it can only change the country's overall economic policy and not in a period of 4 to 5 but in a much, much longer period of years. We unfortunately missed a lot of opportunities in this, I'm not optimistic about some spaces, I'm not optimistic about looking at the space of Žumberka, there should be actually a magic wand and not a law that would bring people back to this beautiful space that now has infrastructure, so he has roads, he has public lighting, he has normal access to his settlements, but there are no more people, and these people will come back exclusively if he's going to have a job. And you don't even have a job in the City of Zagreb anymore, as much as you want it, you don't even have it in the county centers, you don't actually have it in most of the Republic of Croatia. And it's a long-term job that unfortunately will take an ohho time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92674	We're moving on to an individual debate. Here you go, pal Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92675	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Somehow I feel like I'm observing this law and these laws of these days that are being passed and there's a debate about local self-government that I'm being exposed to good traders as head of local self-government. Somehow it seems to me that the state is a merchant, and the local self-government is a buyer, so there's that trade trick going on, the one thing we do is we raise the prices by 50%, she's down 10%, and we say, "Here's the gentlemen the buyers now you can buy cheaper we've cut your prices." That is what it looks like here and it has been said and already in a lot of debate that this was actually supposed to be a united debate on all these laws because they directly concern local self-government and I repeat that in this law as well as in those previous laws relating to local self-government, Article 4(6) has been violated. The European Charter of Local Self-Government because it has not been compromised, negotiated with legitimate representatives of local and regional self-government of the adoption of this law. Because if it were then the Association of Cities, the Association of Municipalities, the County Association as legitimate representatives would not object and would not object and propose amendments to such a law. And really, it would really be necessary to think a little bit more about the adoption of this law, really maybe a little bit more about this so many times mentioned indexation because everyone is actually rebelling on the methods of calculation and in some way asking the question to me, too, whether the aim of this law is to preserve life throughout the entire territory of Croatia or whether it's meant to be some kind of "regional development". If there is no life, there will be no development, I think it must primarily be the goal of preserving life. Today, a colleague of Pleshe will certainly, every time he hears Gorski Kotar, immediately raises his head normally, but it is not only Gorski Kotar has a lot of such areas in Croatia, so today should be stimulated and reviled, giving financial support to people that he wants to live in certain areas. And we can't possibly count the cost of life over to roughly here by 3.4 item here some formula for Croatia. It's so different and heterogeneous that simply without the right to look at the cost of life in every local self-government, in every municipality and city, we can't bring the right criterion, we can't know how much life costs in each area. And the Regional Development Act with the aim of preserving life in all parts of Croatia would primarily worry that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has minimum standards that a man in one country can have in order to preserve his family there, to preserve that space, to maintain it because in these rural areas we all know, many times speaking are residents and a certain kind of municipal service because they preserve and maintain a space that would not have had to be maintained, would have to be paid. What the Association of Cities specifically stressed, and I personally gave the amendment and I ask you to give a good consideration about it is Article 14 paragraph of the sixth proposed law, and it refers to smaller urban areas which here suggest that these are local self-governments whose centers have more than 15 thousand, and less than 35,000 inhabitants, or refer to cities. Croatia is a small country, small areas, and also Mr. Prime Minister and Minister himself said in the beginning that urban areas will have the opportunity and the opportunity to compete directly for European funds. In this way we come into a situation that definitely these cities, and the environments will be discriminated in some way and they will not be able to team up with surrounding municipalities, and they are bureaucratic centres for hundreds of years are defined bureaucratic centres and have city status. So I ask you to respect this to consider and to really see that all units of local self-government that have the status of the city are placed in the category of smaller urban centres so that they can join together, do joint programs and try to compete for funds as is said here. It is also a unanimous proposal and conclusion of the City Association Assembly held last week. I think he needs to be respected from that point of view and he needs to be well thought out. Why does it matter? It is important because units of local self-government cities and in the past time when funds from EU pre-accession funds were used were in some way damaged. We had situations that units of local self-government with a population of more than 10,000 people were actually disabled in running for rural development funds, so building infrastructure because they had too many residents. Now, in this case, the units of local self-government that have more than 15,000 inhabitants will be demoted and disabled again, and they will again be banned from doing something that some others can do. I don't think it would violate the spirit of this law and that it could in any case contribute to one improvement at the very least. What's important about indexation, what's important about local self-government relations to the state administration, to the central government itself. So local self-government must know exactly in advance how much money it has for its normal operation, not only for consumption but for programmes. She needs to know. We're hearing here again today that it's going to help from some other funds in the second half of next year it's going to start but programmically. So not for the fact that a municipality or city can self-determining how it will spend the funds for which programs but again someone will give it, conducting certain funds, or still have to write, seek, lobby to do so. So we allow local self-government to simply know what it has in advance, how much resources it has available, and to allow that local self-government to be able to do so, that it can develop its area, that it can take care of the standard of citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in that area. So, I repeat, it wouldn't be good if we really had the situation that I was talking about, that there was always some tension between the central state and the local self-government. Everybody says it, everybody says it, but we all do it differently. So local self-government and the state must be partners, they must develop together and they must all worry together about improving the standards of their citizens. I repeat, Mr. Minister, once again here, try to consider this amendment, which is also a proposal from the Association of Cities and respect it, I don't think it's going to change anything important in the law to worse than it is for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92676	A colleague of Ante Babic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92677	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will not talk much about the indexation itself, but I will remind you that in 2012 we started preparing this new proposal for a law on regional development and that we were still on 4.11.2013, until then there was actually a public debate on the draft bill and only the adoption of the law was announced in the first quarter of 2014 to discuss it today. The government actually believes that the government is now passing this Regional Development Act even though it was actually brought back in 2009 in which the concept of assisted areas is known, i.e. the areas of the Republic of Croatia which are lagging behind the average in the Republic of Croatia, whose development needs to be supported. However, I believe it is still necessary to do so as it was announced by the PPDS Act, or the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, because of the means itself to recover those areas, or the very survival and development in that area. What brings us the Regional Development Act is actually a new institutional form, although I am the minister today speaks of not being so that certain costs will only be compensated but new institutions will definitely be introduced that will be established by the adoption of this Act, which are partner councils, urban agglomerations and regional coordinators. It's not really about how they're going to choose, whether to rotate, at what time, the law doesn't talk about it. Are regional coordinators standing here not legal persons and they actually are. In the people they remind of old times, so they have already called them commissioners. The larger announcement itself prior to the planning areas, now urban agglomerations actually identify and introduces a regionalisation to a small door in Croatia which, in my opinion, will cause unnecessary and harmful tensions in Croatian society and state. Besides these days, we can witness negative reactions to such divisions from Dubrovnik, Istria, Split, Međimurje, Dalmatia and other parts of Croatia. When this is put into one context of the announced constitutional changes that the region is announced as a new unit of regional and regional self-government, it is actually clear where this is going. In fact, we are aware of the new tensions that are now emerging because of the centralisation between the central government and local self-government units, although additional to the local level will cause unnecessary conflicts between them. South of Croatia, Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar and Sibenik instead of using this energy and potential to improve the quality of life of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, they will spend their energy on unnecessary calculations and we will also spend our energy and resources on forming new institutional forms that should actually deal with regional development. If this Government really wanted to deal with the development of regional development in particular, then it had enough and space and opportunities and within the existing Regional Development Act, and in particular with regard to co-ordinating project development and project documentation for the withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds. And there is, as the government is generally known, that is, the Ministry of Regional Development has completely failed. In fact, at the end of 2014, the government is engaged in a better preparation of the withdrawal of funds... for the use of EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Law will not contribute evenly to the development of Croatia but will contribute even more to the depopulation of certain areas of the Republic of Croatia from which people before and in the future will move even more to testify from their own example. The proposal of the Regional Development Act introduces the criteria for supporting certain areas, which is the development index that counts for the number of inhabitants in certain areas, so it will lead to an absurd situation that areas that are now uninhabited or not sufficiently populated, such as the example of the Dalmatian hinterland, Like, or the Gorski Kotar, by further eviction of the population from these areas of the index-developed areas will increase as you have to recognise the absurdity. Therefore, this proposal for a law on regional development will, in particular in this demographic sense, be harmful to Croatia and produce inconspicuous adverse and long-term consequences for the country's balanced regional development. The Regional Development Act with the Development Index should actually be one, to be a substitute for the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and the Law on PPDS. He was actually supposed to be, they were supposed to be complementary and thus actually contribute to the even development of Croatia. According to this development index, as far as I know, Vrgorec area by the number of people from 2001 when it had 7.5 thousand inhabitants, its number of unemployed people was 700 and today in 2011 after that census there are 6.5 thousand inhabitants and the number of unemployed is almost 1,000 and it is actually in that second group that has no logic whatsoever. The point of this law should actually be to further decentralise Croatia on the principle of subsidiarity and to actually units of local self-government to give them greater powers in solving problems in their area and not to do so through so-called. Regionalisation is actually carried out by an additional centralisation of state functions that are actually carried out in certain regional centres. We actually need one deconcentration of state affairs, although this deconcentration does not mean decentralisation. It is not good that from the level of Zagreb, i.e. from the central government, responsibility for non-functioning of the entire administration is transferred to units of local self-government and at the same time centralisation of functions that should be transferred to municipalities and county by logic. Often you citizens don't really understand whose function these bodies should be, they don't understand, but fortunately some services are in the same buildings. It will be difficult for you today and for someone to respond to what is part of the business, say the State Office for the Economy, in relation to, say, the administrative department for the economy of a county. When we talk about the Regional Development Act, it will bring great misunderstandings and injustices through the Index of Development, because the criteria are unclear, and let's just say the depopulations of certain Croatian areas, the unemployment rate of the working-active population, the conditions of embezzlement, are not the same as those in Sinj, Vrgorac, Imotski as in Zagreb, society and of course the impact of the crisis. Society is not static, circumstances change from day to day. We cannot and must not ignore our customs, tradition, history and culture because of this law. These are all reasons why the adoption of this law will further devastate Croatia, increase urban agglomerations, and about rural parts of this law, which are 91.2% and some 47.6% in the population. Of course, the legislator did not give much thought or show great interest in these areas. Finally, the assessment of the necessary funds for the implementation of this law says that there will be no need to provide additional funding since new measures will be financed by redistributing existing budgets, but also by EU structural investment funds, which is not true because they are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92678	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92679	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, I'm going to look back at that sentence of yours that the government is here in 2014 analyzed again because it really is. It works, analyzes and prepares in 2014, here we are at the end of 2014, we are just in the process, we are preparing, and for a year and a half we are already in the European Union, and then we are surprised what is happening to us at local and regional level. And instead of these local and regional levels being proposed and prepared on the basis of their strategies, the government comes to them each time, each year your development strategy, which should only be valid until 2013. Now they have sent them a memo that should be valid in 2015 because the state is late with its strategy that we will see at the end of June if all conditions mean 2015, which means that only 2016 will we be ready after almost 3 years to find out what our investment priorities are and what projects are to be financed. And if the lack of concern in this poor approach, strategic planning has reached a certain level, it is seen in the fact that they did not foresee the adoption of a strategic document at this second NUTS level. There's no strategic document at all, we only have county and state levels. Now that we're going to be involved in this cohesion policy, they probably don't know it themselves either, because we see that they just don't want to apply some principles, and we got what we have from the law, which is that it won't help anyone, that many will be able to help and that in 2016 we will all conclude that we have the resources at our disposal, but that because of our unhappiness. At national level, we are not prepared to withdraw a euro from European funds either. Because when someone says prepare projects, and everyone has ready projects, you sign up and then they say it's not funded from these funds, give you something else. You're making a lot of money too, and you don't even know what you need to prepare for yourself and where it has its ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92680	Thank you. Ante Babic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92681	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Boric, the government has actually been bringing us back for years, and it shows that he doesn't understand the concept of regional or local development because it's all being further administratively complicated in the system because nothing can actually be done without this council. And you noticed well, and we at the level of units of local administration and self-government received similar memos to prepare certain projects that we later received a response that would not be financed from the funds of eu funds. I also have this letter in front of me, which was sent to the county's 9th month, which says they are aware of the deadlines ahead, which the ministry says, for the construction of the county budgets for 2015, i.e. the commitment to budgeting in accordance with the county development strategies prescribed by law. The Ministry therefore proposes to extend the application of its existing county development strategy for a minimum of one more year, and that is what it says, with the adoption of this Regional Development Act where the Government is now, at the end of the year, in an emergency procedure, seeking to prepare itself as best as possible to get as much funding out of the European Union funds as possible, and this is actually all saying how they were actually preparing for this. We warned that precisely because of this sloppyness and inefficient administration will be left behind in 2016 and 2017 more than a billion euros in EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92682	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92683	Thank you very much. You're right, colleague Babic, when you say it's not good to treat local self-government and state, central states do this kind of thing because it definitely doesn't lead anywhere. You're right about that part where you say that citizens are confused, that they don't know what the service is, where they need to come from, what they have to do because there's so much. Not that they don't know the citizens, I don't know that. So as head of local self-government for over 14.5 years, I don't know what agencies, offices, offices are sitting there in offices. What's to be done with? Now somebody put a gun to my forehead and say, "Give me what you have down in the Crosses now in the yard building, which are the services I can't know." And not only can't I know, I can't even get the data. When I need some information as mayor, I can't get an answer from either the IRS, or the Office of the State Administration, from anyone. And then you have a series of various agencies, commissions, I don't know what the hell they all are. It's just that people are totally lost. Right now, and you're right about the government's chaos in the service. So you don't know what to do. What we know is that everyone's looking for some reports. So local self - administrations, utility companies, institutions, all of this turned into some kind of service that serves other services. What kind of service? We don't know anymore. So we write reports all the time, we have to explain something to someone. There is no time to prepare projects, because bureaucracy has taken over everything. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92684	Ante Babic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92685	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. So, colleague Hrg, when I spoke about this for the central government, that is, by adopting the Law on Central Government and all that the units of local self-government and regional self-government should do, I really thought about it, and in fact, in one debate I offered this question which is the difference between the part-rounding of the Office of the State Administration of the Economy and the Economic Administration in the specific case of our county. No one actually knew how to answer that. Let's say in our county, we have 407 people at the state administration's offices, and we have 190 in the county. It's a duplication function. We're aware of that. One delegation of the Croatian Parliament and here present colleagues were in Baden Wittenberg where they actually told us some things that happen to them, although Germany is a federal state. But law-making at federal level, let's say in the Federal Republic of Germany is blocked by their landers. In this case, let's say Baden Wittenberg. This law shall, unless the funds are provided, be inadmissible. Now, since you're also coming from the local self-government unit, you know very well that by adopting this and similar previous and future laws, we're building up our obligations. Maybe now and before the end of the year where we couldn't or were able to form budgets, and given the Fiscal Responsibility Act, we'll all get into some problems. And we've been talking about it for a few days from the laws themselves, the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, everything that's being transferred to local self-government units actually adds to us, and that central government doesn't really care. And that's too bad. There should be far greater coordination for better efficiency and for a better standard of citizens which we are sure is in everyone's best interests and also for this government that doesn't listen to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92686	My colleague, Domagoj Hajduković, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92687	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, a lot has been said in the debate so far. I'll try to be brief. However, my colleague Babić's debate actually encouraged me, i.e. she gave a good introduction to what I wanted to say at the very beginning, which is something I had repeated in the debates before. In fact, we both as a state and as a system and whatever you want from the state administration, local self-government, means all levels of governance are simply not well and effectively prepared for the EU. This was supposed to be a process that should have lasted years and whose culmination should have actually been EU accession. So, from the early two thousandths when we submitted a request for, a formal application for EU membership to obtaining an acquis communer, I think it was practically until 2004 a little or nothing was done. So, where we agreed that our strategic goal was to join the EU, we did not systematically prepare for it. And statistics testify, above all, to the withdrawal of funds from pre-accession funds, weak and difficult reorientation and units of local self-government, state administration and all others to withdraw these funds and prepare staff and all other preconditions to capitalise our membership in the EU as we should now. So that's the first problem and that's the problem we're facing in all actually social spheres, social and political, and so on in regional development. Balanced regional development should certainly be a priority. We now have situations of this being discussed by colleagues, including radical differences between certain regions, including micro-region, counties and municipalities. So in my opinion, I'll just compare Istria and Slavonia or, say, Međimurje and the Dalmatian Zagora. So, very, very radical differences. The existing system simply does not meet the needs, i.e. after long practice of existing mechanisms for equating regional development, we can conclude that there has not simply been a lot of work on this. And for this reason, I am pleased that the main strategic decree of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2014 to 2020 is to reduce these very regional differences. And how do you do that? First of all, by creating the preconditions of the legal and all other mechanisms in order to distribute the money more efficiently to those below the national average. So, we are facing an economic and financial crisis, and that is precisely what the relative limitation of the resources available forces us to more effectively distribute the said funds. In particular, this law will oblige units of local self-government, i.e. urban anglomeration to adopt development strategies. In fact, we are witnessing that many units of local self-government, here above all, blame the leaders who often lack visions. They simply have no visions where and how they want to develop. Of course, I don't want to generalize. There are also those who know it very well. But I met myself in my own experience both as a parliamentary representative and as a councilman at the County Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County with many who do not know it, i.e. to be more precise in their worth. All the municipalities, and we have a real micro-region, we have a huge number of municipalities, all the municipalities would be autistic, they'd be self-sufficient. So they'd have from food factories to shoe factories, to electronics factories. Unfortunately, at such a micro-level of governance, it is simply impossible, or many cities and municipalities, there are primarily deficited municipalities, so they simply have no vision of how to develop. For example, some cities because of their geostrategic position, because of tradition, because of the availability of human resources and so on are simply better predetermined for some industrial branches or for some activities than others. For example, Bjelovar is extremely strong in dairy. I can name a few more cities as examples. Our coastal cities also have developed tourism industry and all supporting activities, etc., etc. So the units of local self-government as well as the state simply have to rely on certain segments that they want to develop and then invest as much as possible and try to extract the maximum. So, above all, respecting the specificities of each unit of local self-government. Also, the intention of this law is also to facilitate the possibility of using European money. In order to use European money, you also need to invest certain funds. First of all, I'm thinking about designing projects, applying them, just implementing projects, etc. Because a whole series of years ago, if you got the project, you'd get the European money. Then, after the project went through, if you passed the audit, then the money would be left to you, to us who got the project, and everything would be settled. But things are different now. You only get money after the project is completed and the audit is completed. It is simply difficult to finance especially small units of local self-government some more ambitious programs. This should also be added to the additional revenues of local self-government units. That's what my colleagues used to say before, so part of the proceeds from tickets to protected natural areas. This especially pleases me because of our Baranja where nature park Kopački ass is located. And colleagues mentioned earlier that Baranja is unfortunately much below the state average. I hope this helps local self-government units a little bit. Stronger coordination and co-operation of local self-government units in project planning and implementation is also needed. I think counterpart Grubisic said that many county development agencies and even development agencies within one county do not communicate enough, do not apply with joint projects. We often have situations where cross-border cooperation exists but there is no cooperation between two neighbouring counties, two neighbouring cities, two neighbouring municipalities for various reasons. I think we need them stronger, and now I'm going to use the term arbitrarily, push into each other's arms, and they have to understand that in this situation, micromanagement in relation to local self-government has to work together because combining their resources will be easier to come up with the idea of implementation projects and everything else. Support of the scientific and professional community to regional development policy holders is also extremely important. We have a whole series of universities, universities, experts in the field of economy and in everyone else who can help their local community. Some cities and municipalities recognize it, others unfortunately do not but I would underline this as a uniqueness of this law which also in some way obliges the community who is very willing to help but, of course, should be asked to help those who need to plan regional development. Ensuring professional assistance to the ministry is of the same crucial importance because as I have said many units of local self-government simply do not have the human resources to accompany different projects and when you add up the fact that we have not prepared this kind of assistance is extremely important. I also welcome the possibility of making development agreements directly between the ministry and local self-government units and regulating the issue of the establishment of development agencies. So far we've had a full flood of development agencies, and you have a situation where certain development agencies are founded but are not working, have one employee or none, actually serve the right purpose. You have some bright examples, of course, but if we generalize then we can say that the county development agencies usually work much better than the development agencies of certain cities or municipalities. And I would like to conclude that this law corrects a number of illogicalities. So, I am glad to say that many municipalities in Slavonia that are unfortunately well below the average of development of the Republic of Croatia will have the opportunity to get more funding and give their citizens a better standard and a better communal minimum. Therefore, support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92688	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92689	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I'm not sure about your claim last time you said that county development agencies work much better than city development agencies, I don't know, I don't know, but what can be seen from your debate can also be seen that you have a lot of misunderstandings and that it would really be necessary to do one review of the situation, do one real analysis, put everything on the table, and then see where there are most mistakes and what should be done to move on, and then pass these laws. That's the problem. So we're passing laws before we know the real state of things. And the fact is, I agree that if we went a little bit to analyze the work of these various institutions to get all kinds of data indicators. Someone's gonna have to do it. But what I came forward for was actually your commendation of this law in the connection section of the local self - government unit in that part of the urban centers to say what I was just talking about. Because that's exactly what I was doing when I said that it should allow all cities to come into the category of smaller urban centres so that they can functionally connect and work on development strategies of certain micro-areas because they are connected anyway. So, from each of the former municipalities, there's a town and a few surrounding municipalities, and the real problem is what you've been saying yourself, there's no potential and capacity that could do anything. And then the question arises what about those who won't be near a city, some center, where are they, who are they going to work with?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92690	Domagoj Hajdukovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92691	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Is a colleague of the development agency are a problem and therefore needs to level their work and simply follow them. As far as the analysis is concerned, I agree with you anyway, and I'd like to see a more detailed analysis. I've been sent to Slavonic development agencies through a set of circumstances because it's an area of my interest. And as for the law itself, I can kind of agree with you, but I'm afraid sometimes acting out is worse than acting out. So after we see the analysis and after we see how this law goes, there's no reason why we shouldn't fix it again if there's anything wrong. And connecting units of local self-government there can also support you in that part, but I don't think there are any obstacles to even having a community with one city, its center naturally where... And now they're joining together, they're really doing their own strategies, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law only obliges those four main centers but I see nothing to prevent the others. And there are, of course, different problems that I believe you know about yourself, and I think my colleague Grubisic mentioned Levanska varoš, it is one of those problems, it is one of the municipalities that is very far away from each city environment, so the problem is how, with whom they can connect and how they can make their strategy. These are, for example, municipalities that need extra attention and extra help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92692	Comrade Tomislav Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92693	All day long today, colleagues and fellow MPs, honored vice president, assistant minister, we've been listening to this bill and we've been able to listen to a lot more. The first basic criticism is the way this law is passed here by emergency procedure although it calls for the EU Directive or Regulation 1301 of 2013, too much and too much is being changed so that today, in the first and second readings, we can only say everything we think about and submit all of our amendments, the more the local units of local self-government have only recently received an opinion that has practically expired. By doing so, he criticises the way in which the emergency procedure is taken. We've been listening here all day, and the most people on the ground are especially those most affected areas that have felt with this development index damaged, which is a fact, and they're all right. They're right, the ones from the Gorski Kotar, the ones from Istria, they're right, they're all from the edges. I think it's as clear to all of you as I do that this way of indexing the development of units of local self-government especially in the border areas of our country is funny, so we have to say that if one Locke by the Index of Development is as developed as the City of Rijeka, if all other units of local self-government that can barely connect the end with the end, and like Ivanišč in Istria are more developed than Poreč, then there's something wrong. Since most people pass this law, unfortunately not respecting all that is said here today, I have prepared and submit an amendment to this bill. I will read to you this amendment which, in Article 32, is behind paragraph 1 where it has been said about this unfortunate indexation to add a new Article 2 which reads: "In assessing the degree of development, the exposure to serious and lasting natural and demographic difficulties, the low density of population and the island, border and mountain units of local self-government will be particularly evaluated." This is not an amendment and sentence which I am talking about in this article is literally prescribed from a contract between the European countries that is talking about it. The EU has therefore devoted special care to such areas. By the way we calculate the indexation as it was done according to this, as the vice president said, from some 2009 law that our party passed, it was simply unnaturally done to the units of local self-government in the most endangered and marginal areas. It may be funny to say, but if we look and remember the 90s and the war where there was a line of defense, where were practically the strongest fights, where the population died the most, and what was happening in these bordered border areas? The mountain cotter that has been so much said here deserves attention and has enormous potential to develop and it is unfair to take away the funds they have so far had and to promise them some compensatory measures that can mean a swan song to them. In the right sense of the word, the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka has done a study that speaks exactly about censuses back in the 1800s and some years where the population has been halved by 50% and slightly. We're coming up with a catastrophic demographic situation, and just look at the age categories of the population in the area. Not to mention the resources that are just coming out of these areas, and what resources many others are using in these large centres where the companies that manage this wealth are located. We've got lakes, we've got power lines, we've got pipelines, we've got pipelines, we've got these people literally in these parts, they've got nothing but their space's devastated. One banal thing that applied, for example. in the municipality of Fužina and the municipality of Lokva which had income and with them achieved capital projects and employed a construction operation to implement the projects and was a communal fee on the dam and the accumulation lake. They were issuing and charging a municipal fee for that part, they were torn down, they had to pay back those funds, and these were precisely the ones that realised some projects. In order for the absurd to be a bigger HEP to sell that water INA to Urinj, which accumulates in the Fužin area and takes up some kind of space for them. We have a whole series of examples like that. I ask you to really install this amendment here and in the part where the government brings criteria and the way in which the indexation is calculated to right these injustices towards these and those parts. I'm not saying that Dubrovnik should have the status that it had after the destruction, after the renovation, now that the tourist season has been completed and the city has been restored and developed, they definitely don't need that status. But let's look at the town of Chabar,...the only company that has worked and hired these people in what situation and where these people will continue to live. Let's look at all the other criteria that have some larger... and other centres in our area, and these are all border areas just as EU operations are written in this contract, bordered mountainous areas where such small units of local self-government have to clean up and the roads, pour tons and tons of salt, sand that could work at all, without saying they don't even have local transportation and other services they have. And I don't know why this government all the time, all the time here are all kinds of ministers, and even here in the parliamentary debates, the units of local self-government are mentioned as someone who's negative in this country. The Deputy Prime Minister said they've done their part for years. In 10 years, everything's been going on. I'm saying, years, yes, they've done their part. '94. when units of local self-government were formed, when this then socialist structure was broken in that sense, the congregation, the community, the municipalities, as they were already called, just sort of alluded to me and this urban part that applies in this law to such one thing. All these local self-government units, compare their '94 budgets. And today, look at the miles of infrastructure, the facilities of social importance, from kindergartens, I don't know what kind of facilities were built in that area, and even until the start of entrepreneurship in these areas have been done by these local self-government units with the minimal support of any government so far. Now we're doing something else. We're doing this to the units of local self-government, it's just an embarrassing definition of where the prime minister here has been telling us that those who have more will be given more so that they can spend more, and those who have less, the other law that we recently passed, which taxes the units of local self-government in that part have lost. What we're going to do to keep the standard we gave our citizens in the first place, some units of local self-government will have to make a cut. In a different way, they will have to make their income through communal fees so that they can service all the standards that have so far reached those local self-government units on the ground. And not to mention the part that they need with those units of local self-government preparing behind the projects, the minister here says we don't need a kuna, so I think he said a sentence to prepare the projects. I don't need units of local self-government or kuna, I don't know how they're going to prepare such a project. So, local self-government units after being formed since 1994, after overcoming all of their birth problems, are currently operating on the largest part of the Republic of Croatia very well, except for a few individual cases where we can tell them that something could be done and repaired. It's also being said here by the finance minister and during the break with the assistant we talked about, the minister mentioned that there was a huge increase in the number of employees in local self-government units and the large salaries these people have. The strong increase is not about employees in the administrations of the local self-government unit, but about this very thing that this government has brought here. We've got a fire department that's been in charge of local self-government units with a note that units of local self-government will be given for this purpose and for the financing of firefighting decentralised funds. Over these three years, look at the amount of funds these funds have dropped and the fire department has sat on the load of most units of local self-government. We have Minister Jovanovic who passed that law on compulsory preschool education and the ministry boasts that the child with 20 kuna financing is being financed. Everything else falls on the burden of local self-government units. I submit this amendment, I beg you to accept it. It is in accordance with European laws and....
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92694	Thank you. Thank you very much. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92695	Thank you very much. Kolega Klaric, just to support the story of Gorski Kotar for a little while, because when we see what is happening there, and I was already talking today, but I will repeat, it is indeed a large area of the Republic of Croatia, 1295 km of square covers, the number of local self-government – 9, the number of settlements – 258. Can we divide by 9 so we can see how much each local self-government covers the settlements. The population has dropped since 1981 with 32 thousand 572, in 2011 a total of 22 thousand 959, meaning 10 thousand less than or 30%. Every 10 years, 12 to 13% or 5 grand less. With such a pace, with this law in 2021, with all EU funds, with all the help of the state, with all the compensatory measures, Gorski Kotar will count some 17 thousand inhabitants so that in 2031 they may reach 10,000 if the country is not urgently determined according to that area because each municipality has fallen more or less or less in the 30-years, some more, some less. Here, the town of Delnice 13%, but the same since 1981. 6817, now 5952, means almost 1,000 inhabitants are less than or 13%, and somehow the most urban and largest environment in Gorski Kotar. This shows that it was wrong with indices because here are your statistics for islands, we have 130, on islands we have 132 thousand inhabitants, the average population is 40 per km square, and in war-torn areas live 12.5% of the population of Croatia on 35% of the total territory and up to 6 inhabitants in the area of Gorski Kotar, below 20 now per km.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92696	Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92697	You have provided real indications in this country whether it is in the interest that at the border with the Republic of Slovenia in all these settlements in this vast number of settlements that you mention living people lives our people in the sense that these people in this area can create a normal life and provide jobs. Is it in our interest to have settlements in all these areas in the border area and with BiH in Slavonia, or do we want what is written here in Article 14. "urban aglomeration Zagreb, headquarters in Zagreb, urban aglomeration Split with its headquarters in Split, Rijeka in Rijeka, Osijek in Osijek" and these are urban agglomerations. Now the question is, who's gonna take over the shares? Dal Karlovac because he has more than 15,000 inhabitants or a city of Rijeka that has more than 100,000 inhabitants and prepares, it is good for these 5% for assets of attraction. But here we are talking about the development of an end is not dependent on the development of a development index not to count if there is a budget of a million kuna and 1 resident that its development index is 130 and greater than the inhabitants of the city of Zagreb. It is pointless to even talk this way, and this law might even be good in a large part, especially this part that refers to Slavonia that this way of calculating the development index is precisely on these parameters that we talk about all the time, on miles of roads, on nursing households, on the absence of conditions at all for life, and that these people are allowed not by 75 or 120 how much they have an index of development to be put even zero must have the incentive that they must have all the means that they achieve in their area to keep to themselves, and the state through others. So let us not know about these compensations alone which are in this sense because according to this article, the minister will determine the urban area for the city of Delnice as read in this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92698	Thank you very much. A colleague of Nenad's dancing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92699	Thank you. Well, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this little thing that's left us here at this late hour all day, we've been talking about one law that most of us have already agreed isn't good. I thank all of you who in your discussions mentioned Gorski Kotar but let me as a representative who comes from that area and I speak a few words about it. Proposal for a law on regional development, which this unique categorisation of the area in Croatia by applying the criteria of the development index, unfortunately all units of the local self-government of Gorski Kotar are classified in groups that are above the average of the Republic of Croatia. I am not questioning the accuracy of the calculation in this way by calculating the development index in relation to the units of the local self-government of Gorski Kotar is neither realistic nor reflecting the right picture of the state of affairs. The speciality of Gorski Kotar was just recognised by the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. It is not irrelevant to point out as an important element of our specificity precisely and our altitude as particularly difficult to the condition of life and work. In fact, while others mainly create a new value for products throughout the year, thus ensuring the social progress of our residents and entrepreneurs struggle with survival elements for a month, two or three times longer. When it is impossible or difficult to deliver the repromaterial, respect deadlines, deliver the goods, and the price of their work is such that they cannot be competitors. Exactly the competitiveness and the equal conditions of commitment is what encourages activities, it is a magnet that will attract investors and investors. Gorski Kotar does not have such a long history, there are no cultural historical monuments as some other landscapes. Mountain Kotar has its own waters that are mostly icy, the air is colder than warm, more rainy than sunny days, more fog than the sun, life is the least said much more demanding than in other parts. But here you have to live and here you have to have a soul, and the soul is human. And in order for the rest of us to live, people have to have the means to live. So without investment in investments that will create new jobs, there will be no development or survival, and with the existing announced regulatory framework, this will not be possible. There were sometimes 26,000 residents in Gorski Kotar in 1900 or more, but in 1960 there were 26 thousand people, and according to the 2011 census 22 thousand 959 people, and compared to the 2001 census, there were 3 thousand 100 people less. The population density of Gorski Kotar is slightly below 20 inhabitants per km square in the Primorje-Gorski County, which is 85, RH 78. So these data are sufficient to predict a perspective, noting how difficult and expensive it is to organize in a vast area with few inhabitants of life. Gorans mainly lived on from forestry and wood industry, but they did not destroy the wood industry or wonder what they thought about the centralisation of Croatian forests. If the irrefutable fact is that 83% of the surface of Gorski Kotar is covered by forest, and that the waters of Gorsko Kotor make up 77% of the total waters of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, then it does not need to be smart and wise to conclude that Gorski Kotar does not have the resources to produce olive oil or fish. At the same time, cities and municipalities in Moslavina are made on the basis of gas rent and 10 million kuna revenue in the budget, while according to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the forest contribution Speaker is not understood./... percent of all local self-government of the Gorski Kotar does not exceed the amount of 3 million kuna. Land communities used to be communities of farmers, farmers who belonged to the right of pasture in rural pastures and the right to cut down forests for heating and construction, enjoying and harvesting forest fruits and ingredients. They participated in the construction of water, electricity networks, schools, roads, bridges and others. The former forest economies, on a number of basis, singled out significant resources in the development of local infrastructure as well as in the development of economic activities. Many local roads, paved, water and health homes, infirmarys, firehouses, morgues, were built and reconstructed from foresting resources. It took part in the construction of economic facilities and others. The mountain cotar is also a very important transport infrastructure corridor through which the most important state roads pass, Rijeka-Zagreb highways, state roads, pipelines, pipelines, electricity cables, there are also accumulating lakes spoken of by counterpart Klaric. The international railway line, which benefits the Gorski kotar from it. What is the benefit of Goran from the exploitation of mineral treasure? Of the other infrastructures available to Gorani, it is a fruit of their hard work from the past, but neither are they, it is not enough magnet for investment investments and new production capacities because no one wants to place their resources in suspense and not the safety of nature conditioned and its charms against its own struggles is predetermined to defeat. The mountain cotter as a specific microregion within the Republic of Croatia and the Primorje-Gorski County as an area should be seen as an area of specific climate, relief, economic, demographic, social characteristics. It is necessary to single out and, in this sense, to define new criteria and ways of calculating the development index that will respect the specificities and natural and social constraints of the Gorski Kotar, i.e. to recognise the Gorski Kotar as a specific area in the Republic of Croatia. One way would be to pass a special law which would not be unacceptable for Croatia, since there is already a Law on Islands, but neither for the European Union since there is already good European practice in Slovenia, Austria and Sweden. The mountain cotter was too often faced with the impossible, so he survived despite everything. We believe, we desire, and we hope to keep it that way for a long time. It's a condition for us to fight for our own, to be unique and complicated, to talk about everything that matters to us in the places where we're being decided about, and that's here in this House. Then we will be respected and we will have both strength and authority and respect. After all, we deserve it and no one has a chance to deny us. And finally I ask the fateful question should Croatia's Gorski Kotar? And me and Gorani, in response, don't doubt it. All of us and you who will decide on him must think carefully about whether or not we have the right to deny a person life and the future. Those who will, which is what we have decided, should know that without the Gorski Kotar there will be no Croatia either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92700	There is no Croatian counterpart without any part of Croatia. It doesn't have to be that exclusive. He's a colleague of the Temple, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92701	Dear fellow Dancer, it's so nice of you to speak so nicely of the mountain cotter, of one of our jewels. However, I would only draw your attention, but not only to you, but also to the Deputy Minister that there is a period of development of the Gorski Kotar which is very significant, definitely forgotten. At the time, the Gorski Kotar functioned dominantly with forest communities. What was real for Slavonia was the land communities, sort of self-management long, long before it was known but it was truly the management of space and the advantages of a certain space in these areas and the time when the Croatian landscapes recorded in some of our present unimaginable conditions of huge economic progress and bothered that first kingdom because of their economic progress. Would it not be convenient for us as serious people, and thus one of our colleagues was involved, especially fellow Goran Beus Richembergh, that the experiences we had with these forest and land communities might be a little analyzed that even from our history we learn little about what was good and not that we would think that some magic formulas or some expressions in the laws would solve the problem of life in Gorski kotar. Life in the Gorski kotar every day is dying more and more, less and less of the population. So no, the index won't solve it, the law won't solve it. Therefore, the contents will remain beyond the world and people, no one will know of our wealth and none of our wealth will essentially live. I think we should take a step back to see what we've done and how we've lived and how we've done and how we've made progress to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92702	Suddenly, the answer to the line dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92703	I thank my colleague Hrelja and for her support and for that if you followed well and I believe that I also mentioned the forest communities and forest economies that were once the bearers of the development of this region. We Gorans don't cry for indexes, we don't cry for being put into development, so let's all be as developed as we are. But I wonder how we are above the average of development, even above 100% of the average development of the Republic of Croatia, and there are fewer and fewer inhabitants in the Gorski kotar. To provide us with the possibility that we can live off the forest, that our forest contribution is more than 5%, that 15-20%, that we have more than utility fees from water, lakes, highways, gas pipelines and roads, what passes through the mountain cotters, we wouldn't cry for this law or anything. We're only looking for what we have, our resources, so that we can manage them and that we can benefit more from them. Then neither the government nor the Republic of Croatia, no one will have problems with the Gorski Kotar. And I believe that then all of you and everyone else will be more willing, more enthusiasm coming to that end and visiting him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92704	Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92705	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would refer to one part of this law which, in its provisions and also to the obligation to implement the European Council and Parliament's 2013 regulation, also establish the link of this Law on Regional Development to the Law on Spatial Planning, i.e. the Law on Spatial Planning in the Republic of Croatia. This law implements, i.e. in the Croatian legal system, a binding regulation No. 1301 of the 2013 European Parliament and of the Council on the European Regional Development Fund and on specific provisions for investment in growth and jobs and repealing the 2006 European Council Regulation. This Regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States, and the successful application of this Regulation in the Member States of the European Union allows for a regulated land planning and use system. This Regulation sets out the tasks of the European Regional Development Fund, the scope of its support for investment in growth and jobs and the objectives of European territorial cooperation. This Regulation does not regulate the planning of state development as it is left to national legislation, but also implies that the system of spatial planning in a Member State is such as to enable the implementation of the Regional Development Act, i.e. complete documentation governing the regional development of a country. Why is that why I wanted to answer the word "respectful sir deputy"? This law establishes and defines, among other things, an important part of the 8 parts of the law, which is the strategic planning of regional development. This bill sets out that Croatia will adopt as a basic planning document to the Regional Development Strategy. As far as I have information, I think the Ministry has instructed the counties that one document in which this strategic document, so the Regional Development Strategy should be adopted during 2015 if I am not mistaken, and that this document of the Regional Development Strategy should be the basis for the adoption of county strategic documents, county development strategies that should be adopted in 2016 if I am not mistaken. In addition, this law also plans strategies for urban development, so urban agglomerations for 4 major cities: Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, then development documents for larger urban areas representing cities in 35 thousand inhabitants and smaller urban areas, these are cities between 15 and 35 thousand inhabitants including all county centres. Since these regional development documents have not been adopted, they must be in close coordination with spatial-planned documents, at least so says Article 11(3) of this Regional Development Act, which says that they are the starting point for making these planning documents, which have not been adopted or perhaps you, Mr Deputy, can tell us later when these documents will be passed to you. They must, according to the proposed article of the Regional Development Act that we are discussing today, say the starting point for the development of regional development policy documents is national development and documents, and what is very important is spatial plans. So when one analysis of these documents is made, most of the developed members of the European Union recognise it as a strategic document of the country's development programme. This country development programme is at the same time a spatial-planned document and a development document that enables regional development. With us in the Republic of Croatia as a system is now put together on one side of spatial planning, as well as a system of regional development which we will establish by this law in Croatia, instead of a document that was well designed for the level of the Republic of Croatia, we are talking about a strategy of spatial development, which is proposed by the Government, that is, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, which is the document that is currently being drawn up. I don't know how much he's in line with this document that we're going to determine today that it's a strategic document for regional development. In addition, a state spatial development plan should be adopted which I do not know when it will be adopted. According to the law, it must be within 2 years of the law's entry into force, so it's somewhere at the end of next year, and a number of urban plans of state importance regulation. So what is being done to democratic states, the European Union member states, is covered by a single document that solves both spatial-plan elements and strategic development elements in a certain way. It's defined by a single strategic document. That's the so-called. It's a country development program. With us, this will be the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, the Strategy of Spatial Planning, the State Development Plan and many, I repeat numerous urban planning of the arrangements of importance for the state. I am telling you from my own experience that with these documents, with so many strategic documents of the national level, we will complicate the situation in the Republic of Croatia and when it comes to the spatial-planning arrangement, but Mr. Deputy and when it comes to strategic regional development documents because we have not yet adopted them and I don't even know when they will be adopted. I say, according to a document sent by the Ministry to the counties, that is the end of 2015, and this strategic document brought by the Government when it comes to the spatial arrangement is just in adoption, and after it is just ahead of the adoption of a state plan, etc. etc. So, what am I saying? I would like to say that you have rightly established this law the obligation to coordinate strategic development documents, regional development in the Republic of Croatia and to rely on spatial-planned documentation. But unfortunately, both documents haven't been made yet. Your document, the fact isn't, I don't know if it's made. A strategic document relating to the spatial arrangement is being drawn up. But when these documents are done and the spatial plans that come out of it seem to be very, very far away. And therefore, when you went into this law, it seems to me that it was necessary for the regional development of Croatia, well above all for the Croatian economy, for this one even development that these two documents were brought together. Or even better to represent one document, as I say the case in a number of developed EU countries. As soon as possible after the adoption of the Spatial Arrangement Strategy, when lower documents such as county development plans, such as urban development plans will be adopted. I really don't know if it will be an objective obstacle to solving, i.e. use and funds and EU funds, you know that, Mr. Deputy, better than I do. But I think it went the wrong way here and there should have been more proseness between this law and the adoption of documents based on this law and those documents stemming from the Law on Spatial Planning. Because as you predicted with this law, it's intertwined with each other. And lastly, I'd like to tell you one thing, I don't know if it was possible, and that's what the Cities Association wrote that the Development Index should link with specific geomorphological characteristics that would have a significant impact on the costs of building and maintaining roads, infrastructure, integration, etc. etc. You know that it was an initiative from the island council that certain islands that are not units of local self-government and small islands were inhabited and formed an integral part of the units of local self-government that according to the existing index of development in a very high group of developed local self-government units in Croatia should respect the specificities of these small islands, because I think that the existing Law on Islands It hasn't been solved or you'll have to change. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] Here I go, Madam Vice President. The island law, where this particularity of the island would be respected, or through this law, should identify that one position of the island that has not been developed but because it is not a single unit of local self - government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92706	Thank you very much. Comrade Luke Denon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92707	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy. Here we have today a full-day debate on the proposal for a law on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. And if, in some ways, all that is said here today, there is, of course, a need for such a law on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia to be passed. But as we have heard from most of these discussions, there is one small lack of this new bill proposal, which apparently in those controversial indices, that there has been this indexation something has missed. So I would just like to say that our obligation is to pass a law like this which obliges us through that regulation that all members, at least 5% of the European Regional Development Fund, must be directed towards sustainable urban development through strategies. It also envisions integrated measures to address economic, social, environmental, demographic and climate challenges. It says in that directive, so I'm not sure which indices were when this indexation was done whether all these examples entered that indexation. Because if they were then what we're talking about the most today, part of the local self-government unit from Gorski kotar would certainly not be where it is, but would certainly be in these indices if it hadn't been developed so strongly. And it's obvious that anyone who passes the mountain cotter and who's ever been there, when the indices are taken dry, they can say anything. But when you see it in person, surely no one can tell you to pass by the Gorski Kotar that it is a developed part of Croatia. Furthermore, as the proposal for this law puts it here, we also say and ask to ensure that the strategic objectives of regional development policy are as sound as possible and therefore necessary to provide adequate programming bases to facilitate the planning of specific measures and projects in the function of achieving the fundamental strategic objectives of regional development policy. And these bases must necessarily connect two complementary objectives. First, the reduction of regional inequalities which, of course, I agree through a special intervention aimed exclusively at less developed areas and then there are other areas with developmental specificities. Well, now that we've mentioned it here, it's not clear to me why then the Gorski kotar, which is another area with developmental specifics through these indices, is how it got to be then that the Gorski kotar turns out to be somehow the most developed. I don't think that's realistic and that we need to make a very small effort. Or add these indices here as it says here and then part of the units of the local self-government of the Gorski kotar will also fall under these measures that we are now passing by this law or something else do. Because I wouldn't want to bring it all down to nothing but something that's financial. Today, in my opening speech somewhere, I may have remembered wrongly, perhaps rightly, when the minister said that this was the law when it was done with these indices that 120 new units of local self-government would enter, mainly in Slavonia. I don't mind, though they deserve it, but that's some kind of a number because these numbers can't possibly work out. Somewhere that's 180 million kuna, if I remember correctly about Slavonia. Great. And do you know how unaccounted for by a mountain cotter or a local self-government unit how much would that cost? 30 million. So if it all comes down to this prozaic monetary value I think we should do it through these indices or I don't know how or in some other way that then the units of the local self-government in the Gorski Kotar are also included in this part as all these units that have come with these indices have to be supported. I don't think that's some kind of problem, and if that's the only problem we're arguing about right now, it's very simple. We've also heard here that the tensions of the central state and local self-government exist and that's normal, I understand that. The central state, of course, is in the interest of centralizing, and the local self-government, by its own vocalization, is that the more impact it has on the lives and values of its citizens. So look, I'm just going to say that when through the web of these laws that we've now voted on, these are tax laws, and these laws we're now discussing could be said to be a reform of something. You know me when I was still working in the Primorje-Goran County, those people who've been cutting grass for over 100 years then told me they're doing reforms in local self-government units. And they're doing it. They take one count, because it's about the count, the region, and then, over one election period, everything that needs to be changed is being tested on that one constituency, or region, and all the shortcomings. And better things and disadvantages are solved then. I understand that we don't have time for such a serious reform procedure, I understand. But try to understand that when something is done and done quickly and it is wrong that it can then be fixed that here is my unfortunate mountain cotter also through the criteria, through something else left alone and also to be in these assisted units of local self-government. Look, in all the laws that we've talked about, and now we're going to pass some other laws are also talking about compensatory measures. You know what that means? That means we've made a mistake somewhere, so we'll sort of compensate for it differently. It will never be compensated that we were wrong in one way with the same amount but it will always be less. So these compensatory measures should also be removed as soon as possible. I'm going to tell you a story now, and I hope that in a little while you, here you are, because you're here today, going through the Gorski Kotar. What do you think is the most valuable thing in that Gorski kotar? Forest, mountain, clean river? No, you know what's most valuable? The people in the mountain cotter. Why? Look, when you go through the Gorski Kotar and then you come among the people who are Croatian people I would say so you don't understand them as they speak. When they go from one village to another, they don't understand each other. And it's a mountain cotter. You know, me and you may be 50 years from now, God forbid, we're gonna get through the mountain cotter, but then those people who live there will understand. And that's not good. And that's why these measures we're taking right now are long-term and we need to make sure that these people stay there with such a way of expressing that I can't understand them tomorrow. And you can, you've seen here by the people of Gorski Kotar and when they were at this protest here to defend some of their rights that are primarily peaceful people. And they're hard to complain about. They have a proverb that is characteristic of the mountain cotter "It'll pass and that noise says fox as they rip her skin out." That's how they survived. And in any case, I think that this country and this central government must have an understanding for those 8, 9 or 10 units of local self-government in Gorski Kotar because they deserve it. Because it was not without reason that this Law on the Mountain Kotar, this one on mountainous and mountainous areas, was also adopted because they had been developed. So don't tell me that through this year as long as that law, as it is, has been in force, that they've evolved so strongly that these indices don't fit. Indexes have to change, have more hearing, and more I would say understanding of life in the Gorski kotar and what it says here, and that is the specificities that Gorski kotar has, and especially this, to make these criteria both social, environmental, demographic and climate challenges that lie ahead of the Gorski kotar daily and all year round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92708	Hope Turina-Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92709	Thank you very much. Comrade Denon, I have to say a few sentences on this topic. So I think we did make a mistake that we didn't go to the indexation office to change, which we didn't look at all the opportunities to recognize this Croatia as a country that is really so different that we can be proud of how different and geographical it is, and climate-friendly and however we want and we have areas that we have to protect them in some way, that we have to put them in a special category so that we can even expect that in 10, 20 or 30 years in those areas people will live at all. So with this trend of demographic situation in those areas, I'm afraid that some future generations that are in this House will be ashamed, and they will be ashamed because there will simply be no more people in these places because there will be no reason to be. These people live at 700, 800, 600 meters above sea level, for seven years I've been deputy mayor, living with them, solving their daily problems mostly with transportation, health care insurance, education insurance and everything else. So we made a mistake, we didn't do what some Slovenians did, our neighbors did, because the fact that in the first neighbouring place across from Chabra in Slovenia and the same local self-government units that used to be in the same country today have much more benefits for development, for the possibility of living than they have now, and what they will unfortunately have under this law even less than they have ever had before. So I think that we who come from that area that we know very well will have to further advocate, and I think I'm going to write some amendments about the indexation, about the mountain-mounted laws, because he's going to be next, so I'm going to say something about him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92710	The answer to Luke Denon's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92711	Thank you. If you're absolutely right, there's gonna be people living there one day like I said before, but we're gonna understand them and it's not gonna be good. But from your experience and from my personal experience when we lived and worked in that county where the Gorski Kotar was, you may remember that in those rural small households some people lived who had one cow. The county has made sure that a truck with a tanker comes into that cow’s household and picks it up for the PIC in Rijeka. So we tried it not to let Goran come to the square, but to make the square come to the Gorans and see how they live so that it can help them. And these measures can also be done. I don't know how criteria and indices say they're underdeveloped, I don't think they're developed. I don't think that's good, and that these indices need to be changed or complemented so that they're as underdeveloped as these, part of these Slavonian municipalities. No one will complain, no worries, nor the Slavonian municipalities that fall under this or the Gorski Kotar that will learn about it. And tell me, what does a village that's somehow developed make? It must have mail, priest, doctor, teacher, probably have to have in these modern times and pumps, gas stations becoming some kind of, TV signal, maybe a optical cable and dogs barking at passing caravans. That would make it seem like something's developed. Does everything in all local self-government units have that? Even the priest doesn't seem to be in all units of local self-government anymore. So much for development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92712	And colleague Milan Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92713	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's probably enough debate for all of you, even though it's an extremely important law. What the adoption of this law should mean is the resources in the state budget for the implementation of this law. Unfortunately, Mr. Deputy, you know very well. Regardless of the state and the state budget, both the six-year or seven-year crisis or the recession of the funds in your ministry have been depreciated. I thought I'd even give up the debate because I'm last and I don't think sugar comes at the end because it's not that kind of a topic, but my colleague Denon also encouraged me with his story about people. It's an extremely important story, and I'll settle my discussion. So, it's very important for the people of Gorski Kotar and I congratulate Gorans and colleagues on everything they've done on the Gori Kotar promotion through the abolition, some call it benefits, whatever benefits my people may have for the Gorski Kotar or for similar assisted areas. What the Gorski Kotar did was not built by the Personal-Senj County, and you probably know and have indicators regardless of the development index that it is both per capita and per area and on all other elements if not below, and then at least in the rank of the Gorski Kotar. And I am sorry that this brief debate of mine will remain unmarked because today they are not only in this House, but in Croatia but also in the environment of more important other topics. I absolutely support all these demands that... have been reasoned, 13 or 20 thousand people will feel very affected in Gorski Kotar, and in Licko-Senj County of 51 thousand inhabitants, it is over 32,000 inhabitants and no units of local administration and self-government will get rights or will not be supported, and they will lose as much as 6. And what, not only through today's debate, but also today, and one arrow, criticism of local administration units and self-government. Whether it works for certain individuals, and over 600 units of local administration and self-government, and we cannot judge individuals. Neither are local administration leaders nor self-government local sheriffs, believe me, it's more than 99% of the time the stablemen who have been given any obligations, the cut-off incomes, and let them manage as well as they can. The units of local administrations and self-government must be the holders of local and regional development with the assistance of both the ministry and the government. By passing a law like this, I don't mean to offend you and don't get me that way, neither you personally nor the law nor anyone else, but I'm going to quote a fellow who appeared at the beginning of today's law debate, it's really a hearing of laws, regulations and regulations that no one else will be able to follow alive. I think you should have considered a Law on Regional Development in which the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and the Law on Mountain Mountain Areas should be incorporated, and we now expect certain regulations and ways of probably indexing and I don't know how long it will take us to do this, whether it will go all the way in 2014. I'm jumping into my stomach, I said I would, I thought I'd be much shorter, but here, half the time, and that's something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92714	Thank you very much. A colleague of Nenad's dancing, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92715	Well, colleague Jurkovic, if your debate hadn't gone unnoticed, here's to tell you with one life truth that I often knew how to feel about myself when they asked me where you came from, I speak from Delnice, and says, and you're Personal. Saying so much means there are similarities between Gorana and you Lichana that I believe that in some fairer law there will be a place for you too. You say that you have the same 6 units of local self-government lost the status of assisted areas, in Gorski Kotar it is all 9 and at the level of the Primorje-Gorski County 14. Well, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92716	Replication response, Milan Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92717	Thank you, fellow Dancer. They'd better tell you they're personal than they're two-faced. And the fact is also because of the life and territorial similarities are mixed between the Personals and the Gorans, but the most unites and connects us, and does not separate this difficult life in those areas that are difficult in a minute or two to explain. The development index is one thing, the real state is something else. I'm sure and I know about Gorski Kotar's efforts as well as Lika, that those basic assumptions for economic development, social and social development in its space are made. But these are compared to the population of hundreds of kilometers of water, hundreds of kilometers of roads, hundreds of kilometers of telephone lines, and the post office, and the church in some places we can't even think about anymore because the population has been in the last 100 years, not halved, but smaller by more than 70%. It should therefore be understood and I believe that there will be, at least in most of our fellow MPs, and I believe, Mr. Deputy, through all today's debates, that you will have time to accept mostly well-meaningness, to install them in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92718	And the final word of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Yaksha Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92719	I thank the esteemed vice president. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, I thank first of all everyone who participated in the debate, who gave their comments, who some were very constructive, at least that's how we can evaluate them. This is a topic that a lot of people touch and which, of course, touches a lot of MPs, especially MPs who also act locally. People say, experts say reforms should be done in good times. When we say reform, then we usually think about reforms in which someone is taking something, it is a situation in Croatia, with us reforms really mean it because we are in such an economic and financial situation. So we can also call this one of these reforms, which is unfortunately brought into difficult times. I believe that there would be much less criticism and disdain over the changes to this legislative package that this happened in 2007, 2006, 2008. Unfortunately, it is not until 2014, only in 2014, that we decided on a truly long-standing injustice that took place in one part of the local units to correct and correct, we tried to at least correct it, although it is difficult to correct all these injustices that exist in the treatment of certain areas because it is very difficult, as we have seen from today's debate, to reach agreement on what areas should be encouraged. The assessment of the ministry, the assessment of the government, was that the development index adopted in 2010 in accordance with the Regional Development Strategy adopted in 2009 was indeed the best analytical apparatus we have. No analytical apparatus is perfect, so neither is the development index, we admit it. He's got his flaws, he's got his anomalies. This means that there are units that clearly show that the index as such is not perfect. However, any changes or additions, and we were hoping to get in this debate for more than a year, a public debate on the Regional Development Act that we would get concrete examples, concrete suggestions on how to change the development index for the better, but we did not welcome it, we know why. Because it's very difficult, because this development index didn't come overnight. He wasn't brought in in two months in 2010, he was brought in after 5 to 6 years of work, testing, simulation and then was brought in. It's not perfect, it was just an assessment of the best we've got. Now of course the situation with the development index is such that some units get into the system and I think that around that we all agree that these units really deserve extra support, I hope. It is not disputed that these 100 units that have not received any additional assistance should receive additional assistance. What is disputed is the fact that some units are losing some help from the state budget and the focus is certainly on Gorski Kotar. But you can see from these last statements how difficult it is to reach a unique conclusion here. It's not just Gorski Kotar theme that can and should be discussed. And significant parts of Lika-Senj County also remain without support. What we have been content with since the beginning of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is precisely the categorization of these areas. So we can't leave that categorization the way it is, she just has too many mistakes in her. That is the fundamental reason why we now approach these changes in the way we approach, to abolish certain incentive measures for mountainous and mountainous areas. Indeed, the fact that it remains for mountainous and mountainous areas in the current law, or if this proposal is adopted, is indeed symbolic measures. Because we say the next categorization of mountain-mounted areas is not good and let's make it better. We need time, we need more time. It's not simple. We can't just name the Gorski Kotar units, we can't, we need criteria. We still have to agree on the criteria because I say it's not just Gorski Kotar, it's parts like, it's parts of some other county that come into consideration when we're talking about real mountain-mountan areas that deserve help. It is simply so controversial for us that some who have categorization of mountain and mountain areas are currently receiving generous assistance in 2014. Why? Because by reducing these incentives, we're opening up a fiscal space in the state budget, to help these 100 poorest, these 100 weakest, these 100 worst ones that have never received help, that's what this is about. We must urgently interrupt the assistance of Dubrovnik, and Zadar, Karlovac, Matulji and Buzet because it is the only way to help these 100 units because we have no additional fiscal space. What we started with when we started making this package of laws, the first criterion was that there was no increase in the deficit of the state budget, so we had to do everything but on one condition, which is that there was no increase in the deficit of the state budget. And you will see that it will be a criterion for many other laws as well. We would love to help other units besides these 264 through these measures, but the issue is the fiscal capacity of the state budget. This does not mean that the specific units of Gorski Kotar are developed, what we say all the time is that the development index is a relative indicator. This does not mean that the situation in Gorski Kotar is good, we just say that as statistics show that there are areas in Croatia that are faced with major socioeconomic difficulties with larger ones. Bigger because we say bigger socioeconomic difficulties then we refer to these five key indicators. Many MPs have referred to EU legislation in relation to the basic EU agreements mentioning these formulations regarding specific geographical areas, such as remote islands, such as mountainous and mountainous areas. And that is why we in law propose the introduction of a new category called Areas of Developmental Specificities, and I believe that this new category will respond to all these challenges and difficulties that are visible from the application of the Development Index. We believe that this is a better way because simulations with a development index have not produced good results in including different parameters such as. The density of the population. In other words, if we put population density into the development index it will give good results in one part of the unit, and on the other part of the unit will give distorted results. When we listen to a colleague, for example. from northwestern Croatia, Varazdin County, Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska will all point to an indicator called budget income per capital and their 15% share in the development index and will say it is too little and therefore the development index is not objective. If we increased him, you know what would happen? Mountain Kotar would have turned out to be even more developed, the Lopar municipality would have turned out to be even more developed, the Istrian units would have turned out even more developed, we'd have tested it all, simulated it. What we got, or what it is, people who worked on it in 2010, what can be seen in the materials is simply the result of numerous simulations. We need indicators that are good for 556 units, that's what this is about, and it's not easy. That's why we suggested this time. But the same thing that the European Union is doing, don't forget, the European Union uses one key parameter that determines the regions that will be particularly assisted under cohesion policy, one parameter. Not altitude, not density, one parameter, that's gross domestic product per capita. Gross domestic product per capita. And we just said, we don't have a gross domestic product per capita at local level or we'll ever have it because we don't have that kind of statistics. And we said that the development index is the closest thing and something that still points out some criteria and some specificities that the GDP doesn't normally recognize. And we said that's the best exchange for GDP per capita. How does the European Union approach these specificities, these geographical specificities of individual regions? So it forms special programs for them. So it gives them special benefits under existing programmes. Like that. So if you live in the Azores, the Azores are a remote geographical area, then you will have the right to a higher level of co-financing from EU funds than you are, for example. in some province in Spain in the territory of Spain or Portugal itself, anyway. So these are some specific mechanisms. We suggest the same thing. Let us determine areas with developmental features, surely islands will be one of them, that is perfectly clear. I'm sure the mountain-mounted areas will be one of them, but new mountain-mountan areas. It can't be this one, we need to find better criteria. It's impossible to have this kind of categorization of mountain-mounted areas, it's not just, it's really not fair. What criterion will we apply, whether it will be a percentage of the population living above some altitude or some other criteria, I would like to open a debate about it. By summer 2015, the new Law on hill-mounted areas with new specific measures was adopted. The Greek Deputy Prime Minister has already announced that one of the measures will be safe for the new mountain and mountain areas to introduce an additional share in income tax. It is clear to us that local leaders are, above all, aspiring to all measures related to additional budgetary revenues. Although always, I repeat, do not forget, users of incentive measures are also local self-governments, i.e. their budgets but also citizens and companies. As far as citizens are concerned, you know that the amendments to the income tax law are an untaxable part raised from 2200 to 2600 kuna. And you also know that there has been an untaxable deduction of 2700 kuna in hill-mounted areas so far. So the only difference is the drop from 2700 to 2600. It is a fall, we admit, we are not pleased but we cannot talk about a significant loss of tax relief for citizens in mountainous and mountainous areas or in areas of special state concern that loses their status. But we're always kind of all focused on budget revenues. But then let's look at what's really going on with the budget revenues, where that money goes, where the lost incomes of local self-government units that lose their status go. By yesterday they had 90%, now new assisted areas have 88% but also those who lose the status of assisted areas will not have 88%, they will have 60%, they will not have 56.5 as they today have units outside the PPDS and BPP, they will have 60%, they will have 3.5% higher. And what happens to the rest? Kuna doesn't go into the state budget either. That's why I don't think we should use words like centralization. This is not about centralisation, there is no income, so the state budget doesn't get a single kuna, it just redistributes the amount between units of local self-government, county and other units of local self-government. Since the remainder of income from 60 to 100 goes to decentralised functions, this means it goes primarily to the county, since most units of local self-government are just the county that holds decentralised functions. The county receives additional budget revenues from former areas, mountain-mounted areas and former PPDS areas, which will no longer achieve the status of assisted areas, they leave the county. What's going on with the county stake? He jumps from 10 to 16.5. So yesterday was the share of the county 10% while you were a hill-mounted area, you're no longer hilly, or you're no longer assisted by the development index, the share of the county jumps to 16.5. That's why our appeal is to the mayors of such areas where we have a lot of so-called. A loser to get that money back in the field, to get it back to units that now have reduced incomes. That's possible. And of course we're aware that this will still be a coup against local budgets with everything I'm saying. That's why we offered that transition model. So a 3-year transitional support model. Loss won't happen overnight, but eventually it will. However, if the counties do their part of the job, if they really return that money to the field and using these transitional aids and using other opportunities for those areas that enter the categorisation of areas with developmental specificities we are convinced that in the end these areas can have more. For Gorski Kotar, almost nothing means these 24 million kunas received from the state budget. Even less so for the state budget, I agree, absolutely. Unfortunately, we have some criteria, we have laws we have to abide by. Okay. But let's look at one fact. The Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas has existed since 2003, the demographic disaster in Gorski Kotar continued at the same pace, despite the existence of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. What we offer the Gorski kotar and similar areas in the Republic of Croatia are programmes, development programs that will weigh several hundred million kunas, not 30 million kunas or 24 million kunas that they receive in local budgets. We offer a special development programme, co-financed by ministries and co-financed by funds. We offer technical assistance, we offer consultants who will prepare project proposals, as we now do for the islands. 8 million kunas just to prepare project proposals on islands. The same thing we offer Gorski kotar, the same thing we do. That's the way. What we advocate and what we claim is that the rescue of the Gorski Kotar lies in the programme-plan approach, in the projects. One speciality that you cannot see now in these bill proposals, but which will only be visible in the new Housing Law is the existence of a government obligation to introduce specific housing programmes for areas with demographic difficulties, or areas with developmental specificities. We'll have that for sure, we know it's an important element. If we are talking about saving the demographics of the Gorski Kotar, then this element is much more important than 24 million kunas allocated to 9 municipalities. That's what we want to change, the structure of interventions. Unfortunately, in the case of local self-government which will indeed bear one significant part of the burden... the amendment of the Income Tax Act must also be recognised, now I am not talking about Gorski kotar, now I am speaking in general, this is about the Finance Act because it is related to this law, it is indeed an assessment that there are many areas, or many opportunities for further rationalization. That's the same thing we want to say. When we looked at these measures, when we looked at compensation packages, transitional aids, we also saw what can be done from the level of local self-government to make this whole burden of discharging tax citizens the better, which is easier to formulate, to get better prepared. It is estimated that there is indeed enough of such space, especially when considering the opportunities brought by eu funds. What is regulated in this law and what we really think should be focused in the coming years is that there is a strong incentive of local self-government units to use eu funds and that in this law you have and in the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. The fact is that 1.5% of income tax is allocated to a special fund and the fact is that we are introducing in the Regional Development Act a permanent obligation of the competent ministry for the existence of specific funds to co-finance the preparation and implementation of eu projects. We believe that this is the lever that will help to make a significant part of the incomes that are now, without which units have left compensation, and in many cases to increase the incomes of local self-government units. Because as we have seen, the units of local self-government that have eu projects significantly increase their budgets and we really believe that this is the only way. Of course we would like the fiscal moment in Croatia to be better, to be able to implement the right fiscal decentralisation, to strengthen local self-government, but the situation is simply the way it is in such a situation the only way out and the only direction we can guide the units of local self-government are indeed projects. Projects primarily funded through the European Union funds. And if you look at the whole structure of the law, you'll see that logic is crucial throughout this whole story, along with this logic that finally, in some way, the incentive measures are put in place, to bind themselves to the development index. This other logic of eu funds is the key logic. In doing so, we leave this space for areas with developmental specialities. We acknowledge that the development index is not perfect, but we are also offering a way out and we are confident that the new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas will then be the law which will be adopted by the summer of 2015. One more thing about a public debate that I just need to underline, that what we're doing is being carried out by an emergency procedure, but it's not in a hurry. We've been discussing these things for over a year, for more than a year, looking for solutions. The problem is so complex that it includes more laws. It might be good to get rid of it with one law, but technically it would be very difficult. We stayed with this model to have a few laws that solve this overall problem. We believe that with all these amendments to the laws that are under way, which have already been voted and those that are yet to happen, we will indeed get one more coherent system of fostering less developed areas. Don't forget, the existing system offers a cemented model. PPDS remain forever PPDS, no entry, no exit. The existing model provides incentives for certain areas that are among the most developed areas in Croatia. This model we're offering, which we're proposing, which the government is proposing is based on indicators of whatever they are, mane whatever they are, we're going to look for better. But only when we find better can we really change things. We offer periodic, continuous evaluation of development, monitoring, we offer a report by the Croatian Parliament on the state of affairs in regional development regularly to see if the measures make sense, whether something needs to be changed. But we also offer that logic of projects. Tax on reliefs and incentives didn't save... The area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only true path that has proved successful in the EU as it has not saved southern Italy or many other areas is quality strategies and quality projects. Croatia is ahead of approval of operational programmes. This means we will soon receive a budget for the next seven years for the use of EU funds. ... It couldn't have been. [[You can't hear it.]] Believe me, things are standing now. You can be proud of the Croatian government, proud of being among the first group of countries to have operational programmes approved. It's too bad, I'm just sorry, I hope we get a chance to see you at the ministry once, show you what work and effort was behind it. There's nothing wrong with it. And that really all of you together can say bravo, not to the government, not to the government, but to the people who worked on it operationally. That group of people who have repeatedly suffered criticism, and they have done not a good but a great job for the country that entered the Union yesterday, I take off their hats. And I think we should also give recognition in Croatia for a partnership agreement, not that we were not the last country, but that we joined the group with the 9 last countries, and Ireland received a partnership agreement after Croatia. With operational programs, we'll be quick, we'll be faster. Trust me! That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92720	Replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92721	Well, here's Deputy Minister, we trust you. That's nice of you to tell us now, but you've confirmed everything we've been saying all along. You said, or you admitted that the development index wasn't perfect. Those are your words. You didn't bring a better one, you said the same thing because it's very difficult. Now in this part, we are also calling for this regulation, for the contract, for EU legislation and for the criteria already used in the EU. And here we are saying that each part of the Republic of Croatia itself is by itself specific from the island, from like, what you mentioned in the Varazdin County, our Slavonia beautiful and this mountain cotter. And you already know that, and you can already see that. All the indicators are there. The census was 2011. I agree with you that these models so far have not gained greater results in the sense of demographic recovery and what was. But at this point, we are these units of local self-government, and you yourself have confirmed that you have taken the funds of others from their budgets. Those liquid assets they needed for a model like this are as barely sustainable as it is. And I agree with you that projects should be prepared, but with this indexation, with a degree of development, it's insane to think that the locks and the city of Rijeka with the same number of 120% of each other's development. And I don't see any reason for such specialities, and we all know them, they're visible, they're visible, they can't get through this law, they can't be imposed. Because in the law of this Article 32, you have put two paragraphs. One point that indexation will continue is that the government will make decisions with its own regulations. We took the units, the funds. a the criteria, i.e. indexation as you yourself said is not ideal, is not [[Thank you very much.]] Fair to them and not done. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92722	We're taking care of the weather, and it's too late. We still have a lot to do. The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92723	In an article relating to the commitment of the EU Co-financing Fund to prepare and implement EU projects, you will see that this fund can benefit from assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities. In the socio-economic recovery programme, the second one, so from those two programmes introduced as a mandatory medium for regional development policy, you will see that this programme refers to assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities. Therefore, all development programmes in the Ministry of Regional Development, which mean financing for capital investment, will also be open to areas with developmental specificities. As far as measures are concerned, we have opened the mechanisms to the maximum in future areas with developmental specificities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92724	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92725	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Pugliz, in your presentation, you said our focus is on the Gorski Kotar. Of course I didn't understand you. I also know that you are thinking about other assisted areas in the Republic of Croatia, which is kind of in the public's focus. You know the fact that the situation is similar in the Dalmatian hinterland, in Lika, Banija, Kordun, Slavonia. I don't doubt that. But you see, as soon as you single someone out specifically in the Republic of Croatia, you already have an increase in tension in Croatian society, and that's why it is, and that's why I was saying this Regionalization Act when it comes to it, it's a direct danger of the law. In fact, when one region, one end, one municipality is more favored by worse criteria than another municipality. You say there are no criteria for certain units of local self-government. Local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is about 20, 21 years old. It is not possible that we do not already have certain criteria for almost every unit of local administration and self-government. It's just not possible. It's hard to believe. Now the question is whether there was enough time, are we some kind of thorough analysis, did the checks actually come up with the best indexation under this law, what you're actually saying? I don't think so. You've skipped certain things and you've actually improvised and as legislators with the law that we're going to adopt, which you're going to vote for, we're actually going to get a law that we're going to question on the ground at that time. And that's improvisation. And improvisation is, in fact, your biggest enemy of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92726	Thank you too, dear colleague. A new replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92727	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy, I listened very carefully to you, and let's finally clear these things up about the index. Has the EU told us how it must look and how it must have precisely variables, indicators, etc.? It's not. Do all EU countries have it? They do. Is it all the same? No, that's right. So we've had four years to somehow or to improve it, to make it flexible, so that I can respect some other specificities, but we're not doing it, but we're coming up with a ready-made proposal, so here's what we're based on. We can supplement it, we can. I don't know why we couldn't give that biggest, most important part of the Republic of Croatia into it in one different way than it is now through that population movement. That's what I was talking about. If we're demographic in some way a state that goes in a negative sense, if we just have the most affected areas there, so why don't we add it to this index we have? If someone in 30 years has lost 30% of the population and we reduce this index by 30. Or I don't know, if he lost 20% for 20, for 10. Is that someone defending us? No one's defending us. And you'll see that many will fall in those categories from the 4th to the 2nd group and in some ways you'll find out. And to the one who's grown up, let's add something to him if we have to add it to him. I'm not going to say that my community isn't developed, that's certainly not true, but let's say the island law doesn't touch it at all, this law doesn't touch it at all. There are rights that have their positions in the budget of the state. We just found out that we don't have any right to support, simply. These are our specificities. Has the EU banned us from the Island Act? It's not. The mountain-mounted area? It's not. We haven't negotiated them at all in pre-accession negotiations, we haven't. These are our specificities, such as Austria, Germany, France, every country and take care of the area. And no one can forbid us to worry about that area if we want to. And you said, here we're going to take 20 million because there's not a lot of them or us. And there's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92728	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the time has passed. Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92729	As we said, the development index was adopted in 2010. So, as far as concrete suggestions are concerned, it was really a long time ago. However, we have not received any concrete suggestions on how to precisely change the development index so far. ... Okay, here's a concrete proposal and we'll see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92730	Thank you very much. Don't make a deal out of the record because we won't know anything about what you suggested. Thank you very much. So we exhausted the debate about the final bill. ... I don't have anything written down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No problem. Replica, is he a colleague of the Dance? Here's a colleague of the Dance, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92731	Well, thank you. I'll be brief about this index. So there are solutions, a study of the impact analysis of the new Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, given the units of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar, which was done by the University of Rijeka, predicted a model, 7 models in one model of the index of development and kicked out the unemployment rate. And all units of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar have gained status or dropped below the 75% average. What's this model for? Well, that's because unemployment is small there. What's she little about? There are no people, it's all an old household. Young people are out, they do not return, they finish schools and stay to work in Zagreb and Rijeka. They removed that one rate and they got one fairer development index for that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92732	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92733	That's exactly the problem we're talking about, you understand. Everyone would like to tune in, construct a development index according to their local situation. Remove the unemployment rate? The unemployment rate must be one of the standard indicators of socioeconomic opportunities, or are we all wrong? That's the problem, that's the difficulty. And the unemployment rate is one of the biggest problems in this country, and you're telling us and suggesting we remove the unemployment rate as an indicator. We will then delete immediately from the assisted areas and Baranja and Banovina and a large part... etc. which precisely because of the high unemployment rate are in assisted areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the problem with the particular view. So we always say every indicator has to be tested and we have to get reliable values at the level of all 556 units. Or at least the vast majority of those units. This is just telling you how complicated this is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92734	Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion and replication and reply to the replica. ... What, is there anyone else? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I guess it's gone. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. Now let's vote on the points of the agenda. Final draft law on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 742, the debate on the final text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote on that proposal. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 3 votes abstention and 22 votes against, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of the motion to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is Deputy Minister of Honor, Jakša Puljiz. Deputy Minister, let's get this straight. Amendment No 1 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92736	Honorable MPs and MPs. In Article 3(1), point 8 is replaced by the following: Social economics, words are added: and demographics. The above amendment complements the meaning of which areas with developmental specificities,... areas with developmental specificities, in order to further highlight the demographic criteria in determining the area with developmental specificities. This complements the comments made during the parliamentary debate, which highlight demographic traits as one of the important factors in development and this and in... areas with developmental specificities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92737	I'm opening a debate on Amendment 1. Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're going to discuss it in the counseling clubs. Is there? Dear Representative Damir Cain, here you are. Let him go to the pay phone, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92738	Yeah, this is incomparably better than it's ever been before, but it's not good enough. I'm just saying that the gross social area, the mountain-mounted area of what I'm saying, is not a privilege. It's just a need. The mountain-mounted area is not a benefit. It's just an emergency. I agree that there have been many abuses in these areas of officials' wages. We knew the same thing there in 2002 when that law was passed that this law would not be eternal, but we were actually hoping for different criteria. These are a little better criteria, but not good enough criteria. We in Istria have 8 units that can be included in that mountainous mountainous area. So, it's the city of Buzet, it's Lupoglav, it's Lanisce, it's Cerovlje, it's Grožnjan, it's Oprtalj and what I forgot Gračinje. Uglier and Grapes, yes. It bothers me greatly on one side when we put only the incomes of local self-government units in the first place, when we do not put what is incomparably greater quality of this law, which is the return our citizens could count on, for example, my fellow citizens or incomes on, benefits that our economy achieved, which allowed for clear and low unemployment rates and so on. Normally, between citizens on the one hand and local self-government, I will always choose citizens. Between local self-government, municipalities, cities, the county will always be on the side of municipalities and cities. Between the county and the state always on the side of the county. Between the state and the EU, always on the side of the country. But then again, I'm apostrophe of precisely these demographic needs that, in some other way, might be more powerfully apostrophe. Because here's the first time I'm talking about Istria I want to apostrophe the opportunities in the municipality of Lanisce, which today, if I'm not wrong on the last list of 2011, has exactly 329 inhabitants. The question is also how much does one municipality make sense not more than 329 people, but probably 320 today, and according to that list 10 years earlier, it had 380 inhabitants. A similar situation is with Cerovlje municipality, a similar situation with the municipality of Oprtalj, Grožnjan, which were particularly evicted after World War II. All in all this is something better, but I think it's not good enough and I should, I don't know if there's any amendments by the MPs. This in some way strengthens, and it is best that the law as such is not accepted and that the existing one remains in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92739	Thank you very much. More interested in the issue of amendment number one is missing. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that by a majority of the 95 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of Amendment No. 1. We are now going to the Honorable Deputy Minister for Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the same law, regional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92740	In Article 14(6), point 15000 is replaced by the following: According to the above amendment, the size of the central settlement when establishing smaller urban areas, the lower limit of the size of the settlement is reduced to 10,000 inhabitants, which respects the observations made during the parliamentary debate, i.e. after the adoption of laws in the Government, which pointed to the existence of a series of local environments that can be characterised as holders of the development of the wider area, which are not included in the category of smaller urban areas under the current text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92741	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Stay there. To see it will be, I am opening a debate on Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No interested, I say. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let's vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 88 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 15 votes against the amendment of the two Governments of the Republic of Croatia, making it an integral part of the final draft of the law. Deputy Deputy Minister of Amendment No 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia on the same law. Article 33 is replaced by the
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92742	In Article 33(2), the words "before the start of the new EU multi-annual financial framework" are replaced by the words "every five years". That amendment shortens the period between the two evaluation procedures for local and regional (regional) self-government units based on the development index. The assessment of units according to the development index would take place every 5 years, not every 7 years. The applicant hereby noted the comments made during the parliamentary debate that the period of 5 years is more appropriate from the aspect of the dynamic change in socio-economic opportunities at local level which can significantly affect the change in the value of the development index.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92743	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate on Amendment number three. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please be clear, we are voting on amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 14 against Amendment No. 3 Governments of the Republic of Croatia, making it an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Four respected deputy ministers, same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92744	In Article 34(2), the words "In line with the duration of the EU's multiannual financial framework" are replaced by the words "Every 5 years according to the assessment provided for in Article 33 of this Law." These are related changes to previous changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92745	Thank you very much. I am opening a discussion on article No. 4 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I ask that we plead and vote on Amendment No. 4 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 16 votes against Amendment No. 4 Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 5 also the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the same law. I'm asking the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92746	In Article 35(2), the words ‘In line with the duration of the EU's multiannual financial framework’ are replaced by the words ‘Every 5 years in accordance with the assessment referred to in Article 33 of this Law’. Same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92747	I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 5. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 5 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 16 votes against Amendment No. 5 Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 6 Government of the Republic of Croatia to the same law, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92748	In Article 37(2), the words "In the year before the start of the new EU Multi-annual Financial Framework" are replaced by the words, "After the assessment referred to in Article 33 of this Law, and enters into force on 1 January of the following year." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92749	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 6 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 6 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 18 votes against Amendment No. 6 Governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 7 Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92750	In Article 50(2), the words "before the start of the new EU Multi-annual Financial Framework" are replaced by the words, "Before the evaluations set out in Article 33 of this Law are carried out." Same explanation as in the case of previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92751	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 7 Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I am finalising the debate on Amendment No. Seven. Please vote on Amendment No. 7 Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 17 votes against Amendment No. 7 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 8 Government of the Republic of Croatia to the same law, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92752	In Article 51(3), the words "until the end of the multiannual EU financial framework 2014-2020." They are replaced by the words "five years from the entry into force of this law." Same explanation as in the case of previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92753	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 8 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 16 votes against Amendment No. 8 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Now we're going to the amendment of the MPs, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. You have a list ahead of you, can we? Amendment 1 to the honourable representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92754	The Government does not accept Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92755	Explanation of the Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92756	The meaning of the concept is broad enough and comprehensively set to enable the use of the criteria of the consequences of war suffering and the fundamental care of the separation of a specific group of areas with developmental specificities. So there's no need to include terms and war-affected areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92757	The applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92758	Thank you very much. So we, with this amendment, wanted to single out the war on affected areas, because at the HDZ Club, we think, and this is the amendment and the Association of Cities of the Republic of Croatia, that the war should highlight affected areas as specific areas with developmental specificities, and we do not think that this part that speaks of economic features is enough that it will not be misused. And we don't understand why we are now, so through the amendment of the government we only accepted demographics, when war affected the area of something that is the specificity of this country that was created in the war. And we believe that even 19 years after the end of the war and 16 years after peaceful reintegration, these areas are not sufficiently developed and that this is the first government to take these areas money, which is embarrassing. And that is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment because we believe that the war affected areas should be areas of specific developmental specialities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92759	Thank you very much. I ask that the amendment be voted on by the honourable representative, Josip Boric, whom the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment No. 2 of Honored Representative Josip Boric as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92760	The government does not accept Amendment 2. In fact, the government has made an amendment that lower limit the size of the settlements to 10,000 inhabitants, which is why the observed remarks were made during the parliamentary debate and already explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92761	Appreciation of the respected applicant for the amendment, Josipa Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92762	Thank you very much. So we think it was necessary to delete this part of whose central settlements have more than 15,000 inhabitants so that it would remain that within the meaning of these urban areas cities can enter and cities all less than 35,000. And we think that this would contribute once we have already introduced urban agglomerations to better regional development of all areas. Now you're rediscovering cities that can do something, so now it's 10 grand and those who have 9 800 or 9 900 are not capable. I think it was smarter to make it possible for everyone to become part of these urban agglomerations and these areas and therefore asked for a vote on this amendment because we consider it logical. And you've admitted through your amendment that it should have been reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92763	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 2 of representatives of Josip Boric, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number three of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92764	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment, and the argument is the same as in the case of the previous amendment as it relates to the same articles and the same paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92765	Please give an indication of the esteemed representative of the amendment to Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92766	Thank you, Mr. President. All right, the vote will be the same as it was because it's the same amendment, but it's important to note that they're really putting into an unequal position cities with less than 35,000, or in this case less than 10,000 residents with central settlements. This was the request and decision of the City Association Assembly. And when Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Greekic here explained that urban centres will be able to work together strategies with local self-government surrounding units and directly run for EU funds, then we definitely come into a situation that surely those smaller cities that will fall out of urban centres will probably stop being cities in the future, have a problem and will not be in the same position. Therefore, I again request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92767	Please vote on amendment number three of the respected representative of Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 4 of the respected MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92768	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92769	Explanation, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92770	The exposure to serious permanent natural and demographic difficulties and other specified criteria will be included as a basis for the identification of the area with developmental specificities. In addition, it cannot be prejudged how to calculate the development index by the text of the law before a thorough analysis of the availability and reliability of the proposed data to be operationalised by those criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92771	There is no honourable representative of the applicant for the amendment. Please vote on the amendment of Tomislav Klaric, which is not accepted by the government. You got it. Here's your vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number five of the respected representative of the Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92772	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. L-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92773	Explanation of the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92774	A member of a specific geographical area, with the taxation of units of local self-government, cannot be a criterion for changing or adapting the development index to that area alone. By mid-2015, the government will develop a new system of categorisation of mountain-mounted areas and will propose a new coverage based on new categorisation, and a system of measures aimed at overcoming specific development problems in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92775	The esteemed representative of Nenad dances the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92776	Thank you. So what's going to be when I don't believe it someday, but the existing criteria for calculating the development index don't recognize the specificities of the Gorski kotar as an area of specific super-marine, relief, economic, and demographic and social characteristics. Such a new regulatory framework for regional development of the Republic of Croatia, together with the new Income Tax Act, will cause direct negative effects on the population, legal persons, local areas of the unit, local units of the Gorski Kotar. Therefore, specific targeted measures should encourage the development of the Gorski kotar and bring about a viable calculation of the development index. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92777	I ask you to vote on Amendment number five of the respected representative of the Nenad Dance, which the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority, this amendment. Amendment No. 6 to Honored Representative Milan Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92778	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Belonging to a particular county cannot be a criterion for changing the development index.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92779	The applicant of the amendment shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92780	Thank you. It's kind of clear to me that if you make exceptions that there are no rules. But Lika-Senj County is a special feature within the Croatian state. So 5.5 thousand square kilometers, 52,000 inhabitants, and what is most important in the last ten years has been stopped by the outflow of the population from the area of Lika-Senj County. During last week's debate, there have been talks about how when you go through Lika you see beautiful spaces, but rarely residents, rarely certain economic activities. By not accepting the specificity of Lika-Senj County soon, dear colleagues and colleagues, you will not be able to see the residents either. This is further centralization of space, this is, repeats the euthanasia of the space of special state care and this law will bring Lika back 50 years. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92781	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 6 of MPs Milan Jurkovic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of the respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92782	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment with reasons. The government has proposed an amendment shortening the period between the two evaluation procedures for local and regional self-government units based on the development index to 5 years. The applicant therefore noted the comments made during the parliamentary debate that the shorter period is more appropriate from the perspective of dynamics, the change in the social economic situation at local level, which can significantly affect the calculation of the development index.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92783	Appreciation of the respected applicant for the amendment, Nada Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92784	I will withdraw the amendment because the Government has partially respected with its amendments what we have proposed in the debate. In particular, with regard to indexation, i.e. the period necessary, in which indexation will be carried out, and also with regard to the criteria, a demographic criterion to be included in areas with developmental specificities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92785	Thank you very much. Amendment number seven has been withdrawn. Amendment number eight of Honored Representative Nenada Dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92786	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. In view of the non-admission of the amendments to Article 32, this amendment shall not be accepted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92787	I ask the honourable representative of the applicant for the amendment to be made manifest. Nenad dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92788	It would be as obvious as this previous amendment you did not accept, and perhaps it would be the best solution for Gorski Kotar to make 2, 3 skyscrapers somewhere in Rijeka, to move us all down and then have no problems with Gorski Kotar. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92789	I ask you to vote on Amendment number 8 of Honored Representatives of the Nenad Dance, which the government has not accepted. Thank you very much. Please. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment 9 of the respected representative Milan Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92790	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. In view of the non-admission of the amendments to Article 32, this amendment shall not be accepted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92791	Appreciation of the respected representative Milan Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92792	As my colleague says, the explanation is similar. Over 32,000 residents of Lika-Senj County of 52 will be affected by this law, all units of local self-government that still have certain opportunities to complete their budget through local taxes, taxes and certain municipal fees. The budget of Lika-Senj County will be lower by over 25%, whether you gentlemen do it on purpose or not, I'm inclined before this first. The Lika-Senj County has been abolished, not only has the Gospić-Senj diocese been abolished, I believe you can't do that. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92793	Please vote on amendment number nine of the respected representative Milan Jurkovic, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over, please result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number 10 of the IDS Representatives Club and Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92794	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. By accepting this amendment, the existing system of detachment of less developed areas, based on different methodologically unequal criteria, would be maintained in the separation of assisted areas. This would deviate from the application of a new development index-based system, which was one of the main reasons for the adoption of a new Regional Development Act, which follows the amendments to the relevant provisions of the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on areas of special state care which is unacceptable to the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92795	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92796	Thank you. Well, the goal is just to keep the mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas still in place so far. They have been able to help them reach some level of development, an average of more or less than average, and I believe that these funds that are being taken away would be a significant decline in the standard of these areas. So this index leaves the new ones, but the old hill-mountain should stay because the geomorphological forms of the region are definitely something that requires additional funding. This way, therefore, I do not go as before to certain areas, but to all Croatia. What was mountain-mounted so that it could remain as an assisted area regardless of the index and ask for a vote on this. I think it would be a significant aid to those areas that have just been able to reach the average with these funds. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92797	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the IDS Club and Furia Radina which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment number 11 of Honored Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92798	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Specific measures adapted to the development specificities of these areas will be identified in areas with developmental specificities. It will be established in the programme for the development of assisted areas and other areas with developmental specificities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92799	Dear Representative Josip Boric, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92800	Thank you very much, President. Well, I thought you'd accept this amendment because, I mean, you were talking about solidarity, about justice, so I really don't know how you're experiencing this solidarity and justice, that those areas that have special developmental abilities you take and some of the income tax and you don't want to give back to them any kind of economic activity that achieves a profit tax there to give back to them at least that part, but you said now that you're going to decide on your own at the government's session as much and to whom you're going to determine it. So why don't you write it in the law? I really don't understand this policy of regional development but maybe it's consistent with what the Prime Minister said and not to remember it after anything. I think we're going to remember you from this that the first government to help the areas means PPDS, mountainous areas and islands took money, so it takes their money to feed the central register. And then he invents some compensatory measures to give them back only part of what he takes and it represents us as justice, solidarity and as the best Regional Development Act so far. I mean, if this is the right path that the president of the country is talking about, we simply don't want to go and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92801	Thank you for your trust. Let's vote on amendment number 11 of the respected representative Josip Boric, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 12, SDSS's Honorable Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92802	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92803	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92804	The legislator of the bill respecting all specificities of the needs of communities where national minorities live is the view that the problems of these communities and areas in which members of national minorities live should not be addressed by the Regional Development Act, especially given the different needs and level of development in the Republic of Croatia in which members of national minorities live.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92805	On behalf of the club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92806	Dear Sir... /The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... it is quite clear to you as we do that among the first 20 municipalities with the lowest development index in the Republic of Croatia are the majority of municipalities in which members of the Serbian national minority live. It is also clear to you that in some of these communities the density of population is 2.4 inhabitants per square kilometre and unless an adequate additional mechanism is found along with those you propose and the guarantees proposed then it is not possible to comply with the provision of a constitutional law which says that no measures or measures are forced nor with those that are economic policies and economic and economic development policies will question the survival of national minorities in any area. Unless otherwise respected, development policy will continue to segregate these areas. And for this reason we are looking for us to withdraw the amendment provided that the Strategy on Regional Development mentions poorly populated areas already spoken of by some colleagues or rarely populated areas and areas that are communicably isolated and areas that are ethnically mixed. If you can guarantee that we will withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92807	Thank you very much. Did you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92808	I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92809	Then we'll vote, Your Honor. Please vote on amendment number 12 of the SDSS Representatives Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 13 of the SDSS Representative Club, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92810	The government does not accept the proposed amendment with the same explanation as for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92811	An indication of the representatives of the club of the respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92812	Now I see that my HDZ colleagues who are intruding from the fact that there are 9.2 inhabitants per square mile in Lika and that the Lika is falling by 50,000 inhabitants and in the next 5 years there will be 10 thousand less. The same trend threatens Osijek-Baranja County, which so far does not seem to be, is the same problem with parts of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, but obviously when it is necessary to mention minorities in the story then we will not do so, so the style between HDZ and SDP is clearly seen in the way of voting. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92813	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment 13 of the SDSS Representative Club which the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number 14 of the IDS reps club and MP Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92814	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment and the same argument is valid as in the first amendment of the imported applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92815	On behalf of the applicant of the amendment club. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92816	Thank you. Well, I think a similar amendment was a day before, it was a profit tax. However, we believe that the assisted areas due to the difficult working conditions of life deserve that part of the income of the age tax that went to the country. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92817	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 14 of the IDS and Furia Radina Clubs, which the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 15, Deputy Deputy Minister of Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92818	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. This is about specific types of aid aimed at strengthening the capacity of local units for investment in capital projects and financing expenditure on material and energy rather than non-intentional spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92819	Dear Representative Josip Boric, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92820	Thank you very much. So we disagree with the Government because the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which the Republic of Croatia ratified in Article 9(7), states, I read, quote: "Helping local units will not be meant to finance specific projects. The allocation of these funds will not jeopardise the fundamental freedom of decision-making policy of local units in the area of their own competence.". So we are trying to bring this law into line with the European Charter in HDZ. Because I don't really know what it's worth to ratify such documents in this House when then by laws that are in the hierarchy by me, we might simply degrade them under the European Charter. What are we playing here when we don't want to respect what it says in that European Charter, so what are we even going to call on it more when we're first, so you as a government don't want to respect it? So you still want to impose what anyone at local level can do with their resources. I don't think that's right, and I'm asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92821	Please vote on Amendment No. 15th Honored Representative Josip Boric, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority of the amendments. Amendment No. The 16th Honored Deputy Minister of Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92822	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. At this point, the Government is putting the fee on the exploitation of mineral raw materials from construction material on top of units of local self-government, units of regional self-government that can be agreed upon without jeopardising the situation in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92823	Please show the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic, the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92824	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm a little surprised by this argument, and unfortunately it was my thesis that was during the debate that you took where there is and you're offering a part of something that's not there. There's nothing. It's very clear. In Koprivnica-križevci County, 16 units of local self-government in the first and second groups. And it's famous, you know it's certainly well that all these units are located in Mura-Drava Regional Park. And the second in the cross-border biosphere reserve Mura-Drava-Dunav. No, none of them have, therefore, none of them, except for one, mineral, gravel of construction material, none of them, and they can't have, basically or have, on this basis. It means you've consciously made us offer something that's really not there. And he says it's a concession. What kind of concession? It's an immeasurable damage to our units of local self-government that are participating the harmful, the exploitation of hydrocarbon processes, the harmful. And on the other hand, we've already been taken on the basis of the hydrocarbon exploitation Regulation, and now we're being offered something that's not there. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92825	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. The 16th Honored Stjepan Milinkovic, whom the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the necessary majority of amendments No. 16. Now let's go to Amendment No. The 17th Honored Representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92826	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. According to the expert assessment of the resolution ministry, the amount of revenue from the sale of tickets that public institutions need to achieve is indicated without jeopardising their regular business of management of protected natural areas. Following that, it remains, in the case of the provision of the lower limit of annual revenues from the sale of 15 million kuna tickets as a prerequisite for the exercise of the right to compensation by a public institution responsible for the management of the natural area for less developed units in which protected natural areas are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92827	Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92828	Thank you very much. We haven't seen those professional explanations, I guess only the Ministry can see it. However, we believe that with regard to all protected natural areas it is a matter of limiting the management of local self-government units, regardless of the effects of a public institution with the basis of the management of that area. And we consider this amendment to correct inequality because if the protected natural area is in two units of local self-government and prevents both of them from developing, for example. on 35% of the unit's territory, one of them is entitled to compensation and the other local self-government does not exercise the right to compensation and we believe that this is an area in which this law can also be talked about in compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because why in one area that's protected, it means it covers two local self-governments, let's say 35% of the territory, one local self-government has the right to receive compensation and another local self-government shouldn't get, I think. What absurdities they are. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92829	Please vote on Amendment No. The 17th Honored Representative, Josip Boric, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm confirming that he hasn't received the amendment to the required majority. Amendment No. 18th Honored Representative Joseph Boric, so the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92830	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The cash compensation by public institutions responsible for managing natural areas is intended exclusively to strengthen the fiscal capacity of less developed areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92831	Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92832	Again, I say we disagree because with this amendment we prescribe that the right to compensation has all units of local self-government regardless of the development index if the protected natural area covers 40 or more percent of the territory of local self-government. I don't know what that development index would have to do. Either you're right or you're wrong. If there's a particular area that's affected, let's give them that money. I think why you insist on your own absolute brains, that I say so and you do not want to apply at least normal amendments that really make the difference between local self-governments that are covered by protected areas. I really don't want to understand that. Because there's going to be inequality, someone's going to have some rights, others don't have some rights, and now they're going to have a development index. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92833	Please vote on amendment number 18 of Honored Representative Josip Boric. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm determining he didn't get the required majority of this amendment. Amendment number 19, also Josip Boric, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92834	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Namely, the exact amount of the fee which can be up to 6.5% of the net revenue obtained in the current year from the sale of tickets will be determined after further analysis of the total revenues achieved, the financial opportunities of public institutions and the dedicated needs, or acceptable projects of local self-government units in which the protected natural areas for which the funds are allocated are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92835	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed applicant for the amendment, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92836	So the difference between us and you is that we're asking for it to be 6.5% and fixed, to make it impossible for the government to think about something else every year, and you say it can be 6.5, but it can be both 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and 5%, as you decide. So where's the independence in planning the incomes and expenditures of local self-government? Each year, they will obviously have to think about what the government will write to them in its state-level decisions. We think that the Regional Development Act is a very important law, that local self-government and regional self-government should be respected, especially areas that have been assisted, areas that have developmental capabilities, and now you've brought yourself into such a position to centralise the system through two programmes in which you decide independently through the articles of the laws that you have prescribed to implement these programmes to inform yourself, i.e. As these programs develop, you take money from local self-government, and now you don't even want to prescribe the exact amount of money they have on something but you will determine it from year to year, as you consider it. I really must say, in the end, this is me thinking the last amendment, that never the worse law that local self-government will really be combined with this law, amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, will lead to very rapid problems towards bankruptcy. Many will not survive while you move into your ministry and government. I think in the next 2015, the whole of Croatia will have a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92837	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number of the 19th Honored Representative, Josip Boric, which the government does not accept. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. We're going to Amendment 20 of the SDSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92838	The Government shall adopt the proposed amendment with the amendment referred to in paragraph 1. The amendment shall be adopted with the amendment and addition of paragraph 1 of Article 45a in such a way as to extend the proposed measures to areas with developmental specificities as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92839	Amendment holder, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92840	The SDSS representative's club agrees with this supplement of the government and we welcome your acceptance of this amendment, but we suspect that this will be effective without the necessary development mechanisms that we have proposed, which you have rejected in earlier amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92841	So you withdraw your amendment, this one accepts a solution?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92842	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92843	Thank you. We are going to Amendment 21 of Honored Representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92844	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. This article was amended by the Government Amendment No 7, in order to comply with the amendment to Article 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92845	I'd like representative Nada Turina-Đuric to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92846	We're withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92847	You're withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 30 votes against, the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government, together with the amendments adopted. Now we move on to - Final bill amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 741; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. We can put up with the amendments until the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law were implemented by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development of EU Funds. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Minister, Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92849	President-in-Office, respected MPs and MPs very briefly. I mean, since there's been a lot of mention of this law today. Therefore, these legal amendments are prescribed to delete Articles 7a and 7c of the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas relating to the benefits of which the State grants its revenue from profit tax and compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in mountainous and mountainous areas in favour of local self-government units. Thus, this further harmonisation of the incentive measures with the new categorisation of the area according to the development index is achieved. It is this most possible commentary and everything else we have already made quite a comment today during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92850	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to make their views known? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club Independent List, representative of the independent list Grubišić-Kain. They're gone. They lose the right to talk about this. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative of Nenad Plesa. Here's a colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92851	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs for how many of us we are here and Deputy Minister. Well, maybe we should have united this debate, the first and this one together, because it's practically the same thing, so I'm going to cut it short. It was said that the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas was shut down, and now it is not shut down, individual articles are excluded from it and moved to the Regional Development Act and then we get one law that remains on mountainous and mountainous areas, which of the 26 articles it had when it was adopted are 11 articles, of these 11 of Article 4 are final provisions. In the current law, Articles 7a and 7c are deleted, and the 7d article practically becomes or is invalid because it says that from Article 7d(3), taxpayers and paragraph 1 of this article will pay a profit tax at the rate of the prescribed tax rate. It means another less. In the current law, the same Article 21 tells itself that a natural and legal person with residence, i.e. based in a local self-government unit in a mountainous and mountainous area, who performs the work of wood processing and processing under equal conditions, has the right to the championship in obtaining different types and types of wood from wood intended for the forest in the mountainous and mountainous areas. One article to which all those who are dissatisfied with it are called, little... And all those who can't get enough... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For their work, they have an advantage on equal terms, in fact they have no advantage, so they could easily delete that article 21. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that there could be a revision of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area by some different kind of specificity of altitude, relief, economic opportunities, climate, social images, demographic image, population density, length of local roads and unclassified, I will tell you, for example, the County of Primorje-goranska where we have 14 individuals of local self-government who were in the status of mountain-mounted areas where, for example, Matulji municipality gets the help of 23 million kuna. This is all the help all 9 units of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar get. There we still have the Municipality of Vinodolska, which gets 3.3 million kuna, the municipality of Klan is still a little higher than the sea level of 3 million kuna, the municipality of Čavle in the hinterland of Rijeka 7.7 million kuna, the municipality of Jelenje adjacent municipalities of Čavle in the hinterland of Rijeka 7.1 million, all combined with those units of local self-government receive a total of 44.1 million kuna, and I said units of the local self-government of Gorski kotara of 22 million kuna, or more precisely 21 million 954 million. If the law had been a little bit more engrossed in the law, the means could be found and this law could be a better life than it is living so far because we probably wouldn't have to go to the law on, the new Regional Development Act. In these as far as I said, 11 articles remain very few benefits. The right to harvest and unmarked forest fruits according to regulations, because if we're going to help ourselves. The right to rent agricultural forest land, the advantage of exercising the right to rent a hunting ground, and the achievement of fishing rights in the forest area. And the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area says that the status of a mountain-mounted area within the meaning of this law cannot be achieved by a unit of local self-government that is on the island with its territory stretches along the seashore and has a population density greater than 20 inhabitants per km square, and then we have such municipalities, let's say that Senj is at sea. I don't want to be too long, but I still have to point out that we have 603 settlements in the mountainous regions of the Republic of Croatia, which are areas with more difficult conditions of survival. 603 settlements, 223 settlements in Gorski Kotar, which is 91% of the settlement and 96% of the population of Gorsko Kotar. For all areas, the mountain range, not only for Gorski Kotar, should be about 70 to 80 million kuna. In neighbouring countries, we have different benefits just to make people live in such areas, and I have said before in discussions that Gorski Kotar has excellent preconditions for forests and water, but the whole country has more benefits than we do, and if part of the cake is left behind, it would be easier to live because we live here because of the wealth that we are surrounded by, and if there are no people in those parts there will be no life. Young people are educated in high interest, but they have nowhere to go back, they have nowhere to work, they stay outside, so the demographic image is what it is, twice as many people as it is in the early 20th century, and over the last few years 50% is a depopulation, and by special calculations it says it's an extinct population. By passing laws like this and eliminating existing benefits... the disaster that hit us at the beginning of this year and saying what, both at the beginning and at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92852	Thank you too, dear fellow Dancer. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92853	Thank you very much. My colleague Dance, we're not even clear today what's happened in the last year. All the time, it's been said that this law will be abolished from 01.01.2015, and really when we see what happened, we're asking why it hasn't been abolished at all. When we read the assessment of the situation, it says, these changes want to achieve a fairer distribution of aid from the state budget to local budgets based on the index of development of the least developed areas. What do you need left in the law? Free harvesting of forest fruits, an advantage in the lease of agricultural and forest land, fishing rights fishing under equal conditions and rights primarily in the purchase of wood raw materials under equal conditions that will never be obtained because on equal terms you can get nothing, because it has gone... because you couldn't get what it says in the law, that's a fact. And now I'm interested, Deputy, what's left of this law anyway? You didn't have the courage to end it so that someone wouldn't tell you to break the Mountain Act like you said you'd abolish the PPDS Act and replace it with someone new. Or what happened, what are you planning on doing with this? Because let's say the Island Act has its own items, it doesn't touch at all the Regional Development Act, it has a budget, I don't know 350 million for maritime transport, 28 for road, 8 for water, etc., but this law, it gives them nothing, except what I said, free harvesting of forest fruits to the town of Senj, let's say. Now, I don't know what you needed, and when you wanted to, you could have transferred those measures to the Regional Development Act and we have at least one place. This really isn't worth anything anymore. And you denied yourself in the part where you said that the Regional Development Act abolished the double support system and now you've abolished it, and you left this law in this form. So who needs this? Then you better show seriousness and then bring it to an end because other than regional this income tax is an even better efficiency in terms of destroying local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92854	Thank you very much. You will receive a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92855	Thank you. Well, fellow Boric, I have nothing else to say to you but to agree on that. The only thing I can do is invite you to come pick blueberries and throw them away when they're in Gorski Kotar for a little bit, and it would really be best for you to pull this bill back and say, no, there's no law on mountainous mountainous areas anymore, it's been abolished. Because a law like this with seven articles left, I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92856	You're only asking us to read, not to frittata. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92857	Well, here's my colleague, Plesha, I've just withdrawn my debate that I've reported for the individual because it really doesn't make any sense to discuss this at all, and even what Mr. Boris mentioned, picking strawberries and asking if they will be able to do it because they're protected species, so then, they'll pay tickets all. I think this is just ridiculous. Either you pull it back at all or bring back those things that were in it until you figure it out. You told us yourself, and that's where you confessed earlier when you said indexation wasn't good. In that sense, you admitted, or you said, here's a quote that the development index isn't perfect, but it's not better. In this law, you maimed him so much that he had no need at all to discuss it at all, and you further mutilated the budgets of local self-government units in the sense of those funds that they had at least as much as they had. I agree only in that part that we can't keep here, I don't know, Matulja municipality or that PPDS that we can hold the city of Dubrovnik or some parts of that area that have evolved, that can function on their own. But this, in this form, kind of a mutilated law with the new law that you're proposing in regional development, I don't think it makes any sense to even discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92858	The answer to the line, the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92859	Thank you. Well, colleague Klaric, you pulled the argument, and I'm pulling the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92860	Okay. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate by the committee clubs. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here's my colleague Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92861	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. So since it's a package of laws we've already said a lot about this area of the hill-mounted area, I'd just like to point out some things about the amendments to this law. So the amendments to this law de facto delete articles, articles which only spoke about what these units of local self-government which fall within it as a certain benefit based on their position or criteria of belonging to the mountainous and mountainous area. Now what exactly do you do with that law? As colleagues have said except for these few items that talk about picking fruit and vegetables in Gorski Kotar, and so some of me would say a lot of prosaic topics, we think we should keep. So, what's the choice, actually, right now? You said that the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area remains and that the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area will be completed by summer this year with some new content, proposals in which to improve, how to assist these mountainous and mountainous areas. I'm sorry we didn't do this before we sent this whole package of laws into debate, because if we'd done a lot of today's debate, there wouldn't be. And if we hadn't talked about it, it's not true that we didn't talk about it because what I know and in the procedure itself is the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the local self-government units from the Gorski Kotar area, and others, there have been analyses. The Faculty of Economics of Rijeka has made a specific analysis of both the Regional Development Act and the proposals on how to index these areas, etc. And there have been conversations on many occasions as far as I know and with your ministry, well, and now for the last 2.3 weeks it's been intensely intensified, of course it's politically acquired a tense dimension. But let's just say we're in a situation right now to see what we can do. I'm afraid what I'm going to propose will actually cost the state more than what could have been done before the amendment of this law, by changing the criteria that units of local self-government would have the status of a mountain-mounted area and having the benefits of it, rather than what I'm about to suggest. But I have no choice, so I will suggest that, in this law, it is in one of the articles that we will leave 75% of our income to those units of local self-government in the first year of implementation of the Regional Development Act in 2015 because in that year we will amend this law and the law will probably come into force in early 2016 and then gradually reduce those who will not enter that part of the mountainous area. That seems only logical to me right now because otherwise it's really a question of whether this law as such must simply be withdrawn. In this respect, the CNS will personally give the amendment. We still have a few days to think about what we're wise to do about it. Namely, I don't know how the units of the local self-government mountain-mounted area were complicated for all of us that we in the units of local self-government leaders projected budget for next year, but I think it was particularly difficult for them because they didn't know and they don't know yet until all these laws are passed on to what and how and what income they will be. I cannot write possibly some evaluations and projections on the basis of the bill. So I don't think I'm going to talk about Gorski Kotar again about all these specialities, about all their difficulties, I think there's been time and there's been talk about it and it could have been done and now we've come into this situation that we have to justify ourselves and confront ourselves and with a healthy memory of how to say that just everything that's been so far isn't worth it, that we haven't done anything, and we're going to do it. You know, it's very hard to vote for all these laws based on promises. We didn't offer anything concrete. I'm glad to hear what the minister said and what you said and all those chances that are opening up through what you said it would be, but it's not right now. I mean, a lot of people have promised me more trust you than some others, but the fact that people who simply believe nothing in these places because we've tried to agree more times, we've talked more times about it being your proposal, but here I'm still hoping it might be a proposal from the government of the Republic of Croatia to do something that will guarantee in this law that these units of local self-government will survive this year until we propose a new Law on the mountainous area. In that sense, the HNS will, of course, support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92862	Dear MPs, we have two replicas of your exposure. She is one of the respected representatives of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92863	Thank you very much. Well colleagues Turina-Đurić I can suggest what you can do. Let's just say you can't vote on the law on regional development of the Republic of Croatia, so don't vote for this one, and then it won't go away, so something's gonna happen. Because this is an inconclusive debate if you don't understand. So this is a non-serious debate that we've been brought into with one of the behaviors of a government that doesn't really know what it's doing. Because after this local self-government can expect, it's not just the Gorski Kotar, it's 45 local self-government, 12 cities and 33 municipalities. It's not just the Gorski Kotar. And they don't have anything under this law anymore, I said what they have. So no speciality I can't get, I don't know by a regular rule book, by a simple rule book. You were the first to say, you were the first to come out yet the Regional Development Act wasn't in the procedure, you told me we'd vote against. That's what you said at a press conference in Rijeka. Today I hear on behalf of the club that you'll be in. So we've come to the stage that people who carry the greatest responsibility for the development of this country, for the management of the state, means two HNS parties, the SDP now agree that we're going to solve some percentages of local self-government income in 2015. You know what their only decision is after all this instead of budget? To make a nice collective decision to just abolish, at least those in the Gorski Kotar because they won't be able to plan anything at all, they don't even know what they're waiting for, let alone that someone with such a great Regional Development Act will compensate for everything they've been taken from them. And I need to show a little consistency, and that's why I'm appealing to the MPs to approach these problems not partyically, this is the question now whether to live in the right place or not at all. And you said you'd vote against that law first. If you vote against him, then this one doesn't make sense and he'll stay. Here's your... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92864	Replica response, Honored representative Nada Turina-Đuric, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92865	Look, I was well-intentioned of course in what I said and what you want to suggest to me or put in my mouth is something else entirely. I've said what I think, I'm a parliamentary representative, I've been elected counsel, I know what I'm saying, and I know what I'm thinking, and I know what I'm going to do in a certain situation when it's necessary to do. So I don't think your advice is necessary in that sense. They're not even correct, I'd say, but don't throw it at me. So I'd like you and your colleagues in the opposition to suggest something that's constructive. No, you're just saying something here that's actually destructive to me, which is that this law will no longer exist. I am deeply hoping that this law will continue to exist. This is one of the proposals, if he'll be accepted, we'll see. It may be accepted in some kind of modified form. And I hope together, given that the colleagues you have discussed are coming from the same constituency, that is, from the same area that I come from, that we will help together to stay and survive, and not to accuse each other or to discredit each other in some way in our thinking and thinking. I certainly have my thinking and thinking, and I've done it in the last two and three months, and I'd say a lot about talking through both agreement and communication to the best solutions. Well, still, even though it's already this late hour, I believe we can come to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92866	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92867	Here's my colleague Turina-Djuric, you said in your debate what we're saying. This law without those articles that were basic and on which Gorani and all those who were in the status of the mountain-mountain rebellion was without these maimed and the way it was proposed simply makes no sense to exist. And I answered the line for something else you said. You said about the budget units of local self-government. For 14 years we have been actively involved in the preparation, i.e. making the budget of units of local self-government, this is the first time in 14 years, I believe it has been the same for you, but throughout Croatia, that we have worked all units of local self-government for 2015 by heart. For the sake of our lack of guidance, by law we need them, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance to give in the 6th month, we don't have them today, and we have to pass the budgets by law, we have already convened council meetings, some of us have adopted them already. How we think about development when this basic thing that life means for the end, for people, we weren't able to get to the citizens from our government, from our ministries. And now we're talking about the law from which all those units that had to make their budget for 2014 in this law that we're discussing tonight will be passed because there are most of them, there are no funds that they had to plan because they didn't have to plan, they didn't have guidelines from the government. We talk all the time about this insecureness. About the fact that this Regional Development Act must not be adopted until all those criteria that you and we and all those who have discussed here are put in place. I don't know, I've given an amendment to the Regional Development Act just in terms of better indexation of the mountain cotter and mountainous area
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92868	Thank you very much. We'll get the amendment. Replica response, respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92869	Well, you've very seriously pointed out one thing here that, you've been mayor for a long time, so you know what budget-making guidelines look like and how long they've been read in our financial departments, and they're building the basics of the budget. And we all know that these guidelines usually say some percentage of the larger or smaller foundation that we are going to project or project the three-year budget of the units of local self-government, and it was never something that gave us a special opportunity to make our own budgets, very well we know what revenue we have and from these drafts of the law and the package of laws anyone who has any experience in managing local self-government could read what the budgets of the local self-government units expect. And since here, as mayor myself, I support this part of the tax reform proposal in which our citizens will finally benefit in some way, we cannot say that they will not. The fact that we're going to be at a certain loss and what we're going to have to do in the people's period, we all know how little we're going to re-organize, but maybe it's going to be some incentive for us to do a little differently and we all work together, and I don't think it's something that's going to hit most of us in particular. But here today we don't talk about it, here today we're talking about local units, that is, in the bill of this law and this last one about units of local self-government that are in a particularly difficult situation, which are certainly not, especially not Bakar and there's no such thing as the Queen regardless of all her problems. So we'll survive, we'll probably get our budget the day after tomorrow if everything's okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92870	Thank you very much. Says one sociologist: too much trust is certainly naivety, but a lack of trust is certainly evil. So talking about facts would be a good category. Let's move on with the debates by the committee clubs. It is up to the SDP club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Željko Mirkovic. Here's my colleague Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me introduce you at this late hour to a few things about this amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. I repeat again, these are amendments and additions to the law. I remember, I have enough games in my legs in 2002 when this law was passed. I can tell you from the example of my local unit where I was then acting as a council council council council council, and we had both a debate and outside the city council regarding the adoption of this law, that at the time the most sceptical of these laws was given by this right-hand side. I'm talking about the local self-government unit I'm from, from Vrbovski. It's symptomatic that also now at this point after 12 years again this right-hand side is the greatest advocate of that law. I also, when public debates were held and on the city council, said that I did not believe that any authority would have passed, suggested the adoption of a law that goes against certain territories or against a particular group of citizens. So I believe that this authority does not, and I am convinced that what we heard today and what has been said these days, that this new law, which the minister has indicated next year, which should enter into force in 2016, will compensate and some of the things that are now lost from this law at this very moment by amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act. I can also say, since I also acted as executive in the town of Vrbovski for a time, and I know how much this law has brought into the construction of the infrastructure of the town of Vrbovski, and so I know about similar situations in other units of the local self-government of Gorski Kotar. But another question arises, which would have been if it hadn't been for that law. We've really arranged that a lot, infrastructure, roads. I was just talking to that guy today, then he was mayor of the Primorje-goranska, how much we just say unit of local self-government Vrbovska has 20 cemeterys. We're for those 20 cemeterys, I don't know exactly, but I think that time was done by one 15 morgues. You know what that means for such a single unit of local self-government, not only do you need to do but you need to maintain those costs they require. I also say all the other water, here's the only one of us as a unit of local self-government we haven't yet set out to take off, but I hope that right through the European Union funds and that part will come to order. The Law on mountainous and mountainous areas therefore regulates encouraging measures for demographic recovery, economic growth and sustainable development and the creation of preconditions for resolving social opportunities and raising the standard of living in mountainous and mountainous areas. The mountain-mounted areas are defined as areas of interest and under special protection of the Republic of Croatia, and municipalities and cities with the status of mountain-mountan areas are taxed in law. By the Government Regulation, I repeat once again, the government's 2010 regulation on the development index, which stipulates that the development index is a composite indicator that counts as a weighted average of five components with defined shares in the total value of the index of development, which is the unemployment rate, per capita income, the budget income of units of local or regional self-government per capita, general population movement and education rate. Based on the 2013 Decision on the classification of units of local and regional self-government, which was adopted in accordance with the Development Index Regulation, the evaluation and classification of all units of local and regional self-government according to the Development Index in several categories has been introduced. The evaluation of the degree of development is carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds every three years and units of local self-government are classified into five groups, with only units of the first and second groups of development indices below 75% of the Croatian average gaining the status of the assisted area. And after the second evaluation and classification of units of local self-government according to the development index, it confirmed that a significant number of units in mountainous and mountainous areas according to the value of the development index does not meet the criteria for obtaining the status of assisted areas. The State shall waive its income from the profit tax to units of local self-government with the status of the assisted area. The State shall also make its share in the revenue from the fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials obtained in the area of units of local self-government, in assisted areas of concession equal to 50% of those units, or their counties. By transferring these two measures to the new Act on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, these amendments to the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas are deleted from this law. In doing so, the future right to these benefits will be achieved by units of local self-government from mountain-mounted areas whose development index is lower than 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments seek to achieve a fairer distribution of aid from the state budget to local budgets, which are the basis of the development index of the least developed areas. In the context of the adoption of the new Regional Development Act, the process of harmonising the incentive measures with the categorisation of local self-government units is continued on the basis of the development index. In addition to the assisted areas set out on the basis of the development index, the new law provides for the introduction of a new category of areas called developmental specificities. It is areas which, according to their natural-geographical, climate and other specific features that have a significant impact on development, can be isolated from other areas of the Republic of Croatia. Along the island, mountain and mountain areas will definitely represent one of those specific geographical areas that meet the criteria for gaining the status of the area with developmental specificities. The new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas according to information from the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, and today we could hear from both the mouth and the minister and his deputy plan to be adopted by the summer of 2015, and it would apply from 1.1.2016. In 2015, transitional support will be applied to local self-government units whose development index exceeds 75%. The transitional support was calculated on the basis of the aid received by local self-government units in 2013 from the state budget by means of an increased share in income tax and by the basis of revenue from the State budget to local units in the mountainous and mountainous areas. If the unit of local self-government has a development index between 75 % and 100% of the Republic of Croatia, then the transitional support in 2015 will be 65% of the value of the aid mentioned above received by the local self-government units in 2013. The new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, which is planned to be adopted by summer 2015, will contain specific measures to encourage the development of mountain-mounted areas. Finally, I would only mention once more, meaning that these amendments and additions to the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas of change, that Articles 1 and 2 are prescribed to delete articles 7a. And 7c. Law on mountain and mountainous areas, which apply to the benefits of which the State grants its income from profit tax and the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials achieved in mountainous and mountainous areas for the benefit of local self-government units, i.e. the units of local and regional self-government in which they are achieved. Once again, I am convinced that once the government has realized that the situation will develop in local self-government units that have been in assisted areas so far and can be looked at in particular as units of local self-government from the Gorski Kotar, where I also come from that change, that is, the new Law on mountainous areas will take those criteria specific to life in these areas and that life will still return to those areas. I repeat again. Despite all the provisions, that is to say, the benefits of this law for mountain municipalities over the past 10 years, we have lost 5,000 inhabitants again in the area of Gorski Kotar. The depopulation is large, the old population prevails, our schools are being shut down, we don't know all possible institutions in our local self-government units. We thought, i.e. we hoped to build the Rijeka highway – Zagreb that the development of this part of the Gorski Kotar would be launched. Unfortunately, that highway still only drives in one direction. We were also, there were some plans, here from my area where I came along the highway two resorts were supposed to be built. Unfortunately, the same variety of circumstances INA should have had one resting place, Zovko the other. Apparently Zovko lost the concession, someone else won. But most days today, there's nothing of those resorts. Economics, not only in Gorski Kotar, but it fell to the low branches as a whole, so we as units of local self-government, although it is not in the list and the description of our jobs we were forced to buy a sawmill and I am glad that we did it today because we found a private partner who entered the company employs 160 people. It works in three shifts and I don't know how to invest millions of euros in modernising total production. I remember, I say, there's already a lot of matches in the legs, when we once imported labour, when we didn't have enough labour in the Gorski kotar to take as much economy as we wanted. But unfortunately, I'm also saying today that I'm glad that some, I say, entrepreneurs have made up their mind and come into our midst. But I'm saying, we used to be like parents and us, and we scared our kids off on parole if you don't go to school, you're gonna go work on the sawmill. It's not an easy job. Lucky for you today, we have that children can still earn their bread. I hope that there will come a time when they will be able to choose other jobs, when they will not have to stay in the white world after they have finished certain schools, in larger cities, and I would end up with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92872	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two replicas, the respected representative Tomislav Klaric has a replica. Here I just wanted to say that the SDP club will accept this... /... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92874	... support, but you said when this law was passed that some right-hand side was skeptical, so now it's the right-hand side again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't seem to be coming from the Mountain Wheel. The other day in Mark's square were SDP and Tony's leaders from Lokava and Fužin's independent coalition with SDP and HNS. You heard the argument from Mr. Denona, you heard this. I don't know where you come from, and you're from the Mountain Wheel when you talk like that. You were saying what was good in this law. You mentioned how many morgues you built, how many miles of water you built. What are you going to do with it now? With this law that you've been talking about and that you said you'd vote where it's not. You said encouraging measures for demographic growth. Great! How? By having two of them harvest strawberries and forest fruits, what does this law allow them to do? Well, you're from Gorski Kotar, I expected from you as colleagues, as mayor, as a man who knows what has been passed by the law of his city that they had and are now being taken away from him. What's Vrbovska doing? The deputy minister said the beneficiaries of the benefits were citizens and businesses. So how did these few companies only get to Vrbovska if they didn't come because they had some privileges? I really expected the man who did it, who acted on that duty, who knows the problem of his end that he would not discuss it this way. Especially because all Gorans united. You heard Obersnel, he's SDP, you heard Zlatko Komadina who came with the Gorans. What are you talking about? About this law that you end up taking away the funds that you were talking about how good they were when they were because you were building plumbing, morgues, and I don't know what else. Here, I'm sorry about what I'm saying, but really.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92875	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Željko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92876	Thank you. Well, I would like to repeat once again that I am convinced that these measures are not sufficient or that they will do certain damage to the units of local self-government in Gorski Kotar that the government will be able to compensate for compensation measures and in some way return this lost and that, through the words of both European funds and tax revenues, that part of the Republic of Croatia will again be in some way in assisted areas or whatever it is called. I say one more time, and I repeat that I admit that these laws so far have brought you a lot to Gorski kotar but I pointed out in the beginning that you were skeptical when this law was passed, that you were against that adoption. Here's one anecdote I'll tell you when you mention picking the fruits of the forest. Then Mr. Arlovic asked me when you had some replicated him asking me what parties are you from? I said HDZ, and then he answered me and let them hire the HDZ youth to help read these fruits because they said that even then it was too heavy for the old population in Gorski Kotar. Therefore, I say I am convinced of this despite the fact that this law is now laid down by these amendments and amendments and that the new law that will be passed as announced by the Government, or the Minister, in the coming year, will nevertheless find certain solutions that will fix this existing call for damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92877	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92878	Thank you very much. I am convinced that this law will not bring anything to the Gorski Kotar or other local self-government. Even though I listened to you very carefully, you were talking about a law that no one has ever seen before, that's what the deputy promised you. The question is whether it will be or not. They show so far the experiences of the Ministry of Regional Development's work that it may not be anything. Secondly, then you talked about the Regional Development Act, that's where we've already absorbed the subject, and in the end two articles that are being abolished that are actually the essence of this law. And we have rightly warned that it is not good. We can't go through explanations, so here's the law, so he's causing people to move out, to accept as an explanation why this law should now be adopted in this form. Because it's not the policy's task to improve this departure from the mountain cotter but to try to find the best ways to keep people there even if they can somehow live. That's how I always understood regional policy. But when you guys from the Gorski Kotar stand up for it to end and what are we supposed to say now? I mean, I don't see too many reasons to move on to who's for something or not because this is really a question of whether people can live somewhere the way they deserve it or not. And I'm telling you, in a package of all these laws, we're going to be worse than we've ever been before, and this doesn't make sense, and this next year is going to be treated differently. We're gonna say something again. We're gonna go fix it some other way. It's a policy of mistakes and attempts that has so far shown that she has not produced good results. And you have to understand that. But I'm sorry that you from the Gorski Kotar are their representative and you're advocating for such a law on the mountainous and mountainous area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92879	Replica response, respected representative Željko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92880	Thank you. I don't know. I guess you misunderstood me. I do not advocate that people move further out of the Gorski kotar, although my work so far in the local self-government unit was to create a prerequisite for people to remain living still in the Gorski kotar, i.e. in the local self-government unit where I come from. I'm saying that with those funds that we've been getting these laws could have been done far more than they'll probably be now. But I am convinced during this year that these compensatory measures will be a new law that has been promised to make certain things come back, that there will be a solution that will once again give a certain incentive to the development of the Mountain Kotar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92881	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the DC and Group of Representatives, the respected representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. She's losing the right to talk about this. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Milan Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92882	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy. Well, I don't want to criticize just for criticism and to be honest, unlike my colleague Mirkovic, I don't have any knowledge of the new Law on Mountain and Mountain Spaces, but as a born optimist, I want to believe that something can happen. But what can I discuss now? This is the law of absurdity. Two of the most important articles have been abolished. I even think I'm making a joke about certain discussions, that I can improve it by amendment. So, in these hill-mounted areas other than forest fruits, other than strawberries and similar things that remain? Clean air and fresh water. So let's add one amendment, one article new that residents of these areas can freely consume clean air and clean water, anything else that is good or bad so far solved by the existing law, or existing laws, has helped these areas in a very good way in the overall development. And not only do old people live in these places, unfortunately there are more and more of them, and these laws are less and less likely to be younger people. I don't think the amendment I mentioned, Mr. Minister, can help, by abolishing Articles 7a and 7c by abolishing and certain rights of the population living in these areas, is enough. The full debate was held more or less in the previous Regional Development Act. Still, my optimism and my desire to believe that a new law can be fixed. And the current law was not respected in certain articles, we all know that, the best wood clusters know that, the wood growers know that where Article 21 gives priority under certain conditions. It is about the same as giving you a certain advantage under the same conditions as breathing fresh air and fresh water. And it's normal that the HDZ club can't support such a proposal to amend the Hill and Mountain Space Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92883	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the Club of Representatives Linic-Vuksic and Hodzic. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92884	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I will not feel well if this is the subject of voting in the Croatian Parliament. I mean, this text can't have the text of the law. This really isn't the law. This is what I would say is a panic reaction to the dissatisfaction of local self-government units, especially from the Gorski Kotar, and at that moment there is something that cannot be called by law. I'm really wondering who the lawyers wrote this. People, we Parliamentarians, will accept a text in which only the argument states in its first paragraphs that we are setting up encouraging measures for demographic recovery, economic growth, sustainable development and preconditions for resolving social opportunities. So many hard words, so many hard words, so many great goals and the text of the law doesn't talk about it, it doesn't talk about it. Let's understand this legal text has remained as a panic response to dissatisfaction. And we will pass this panic law tomorrow. My men, we show that Parliament is not a responsible enough place because this law has no purpose. Therefore, the simplest thing would be to close, to abolish that law, he has no purpose, he has no purpose. And I really think it's sad if we tell the citizens of Croatia that you live in a mountainous area we would like to solve everything for you, but by law we don't solve anything. These are the messages of this law. That's why I think that really the promoter should withdraw this law if we discuss it, I can understand them, that's why we're talking about mountain-mounted problems, about dissatisfaction, and we're going back to the basics, and the criteria for the development index are fundamentally poor. And basically we're going back to the previous debate and the whole I would say the argument in this law is going back to the Regional Development Act and the Development Index. And it's evident that based on the poorly selected criteria of the development index, it's the one that doesn't respect exactly what we want to solve, which is the age of the population, the vast space, the great distance, I'd say a small working-active environment. And that index didn't solve it, and that's why we have problems with this law. However, it is unfortunate that we have been actively working on this law for two years, throughout 2013 and the whole of 2014 and there have been solutions, there have been solutions. I am going to be able to change the criteria because these criteria have been established and the EU directives alone did not respect them, did not respect them. But regardless of whether we were sloppy in two years of debate, I think we could at least put some units of mountain-mountin into the Island Act, so it could be called the Island Act and the Gorski Kotar. I stand for Gorski Kotar because I come from that constituency even though we could probably get a piece of like into that part. And what does that mean? These units may not receive income tax fees, certain items of profit tax, but they could, for example, if we put them into that law, have a solution to investment in road infrastructure, winter maintenance, enhanced maintenance, and say transport of passengers on the route to Zagreb, Rijeka, especially the railway, as well as Jadrolinija. It could have been particularly subsidized, cheap tickets in the form of city transport across these cities, as we have to the islands, so let's say that all those who process wood mass in Gorski Kotar fall into the zero category, so they have the lowest prices, payment deadlines differently, and they would open jobs through that part. It's all regulated by some kind of island law, we could put in, I say, Gorski Kotar for sure, and probably part of Like and put in that part, and then the water resources are enormous, so whoever's involved in investing in small hydropower plants, I don't know, producing any water, too, determine that the investment won't pay municipal contributions, communal fees, won't pay, I'd say all those projects or the state will pay them environmental projects, justification of investments. So it was these laws that we had enough time to let it go to solve these additional incentives to fight for the workplace and in some way the good effects of the Island Act in this part of it apply to some units from the mountainous mountainous, some units. Because the basic problem is in the competent ministry, which is obviously, let's say the minister comes from Dalmatia and he's going to tell Knin it's not mountainous mountainous anymore and it's his basic trauma and then it won't be in Gorski Kotar either. He won't be anywhere else. Because that's the problem. So I come from Rijeka and I say... it can't be in mountainous mountainous, New Vinodolski you can't be in mountainous mountainous. I have the courage to say it and it's obvious that it can't be, but obviously it's the minister's problem coming from that part and he won't say. So he didn't even bother to solve the problems of mountainous mountainous areas, especially Gorski Kotar, in such a way as to extend the Island Act with the name of those units, try to taxively name them and then get a boost, not through tax laws, but by those that are far important to Gorski Kotar. Solve infrastructure, maintenance and infrastructure, transport of people, employment in the wood industry, water industry, and in fact I would say so to resolve and return younger people to those areas. So, the solution is, is time a problem? Gentlemen, we've been discussing for two years, two years, and we're aware that the island law will not be abolished, but we don't need Gorski Kotar. Why? The minister comes from Dalmatia, which would separate Gorski Kotar from Knin and slowly come to the fact that personal frustrations are the only problem why we do not seriously access such serious laws. Now, what's worse, except that we're throwing them out because they're no longer in those 75% of the average Croatian Index of Development, but now we're changing the basics for tax returns to those same units of local self-government, and now there's an additional blow, and that's the blow to punish them. Why? Because as the Deputy Prime Minister himself said, you've been working too hard, you've got bigger salaries than the state, you're irresponsible, you're getting along. Yes, these are messages related to the redistribution of the tax burden due to the raising of tax bases, but you also give those same words to one Participatory, flat mountain and other municipalities of Gorski Kotar. Did they deserve it? Well, they didn't deserve it. Two years of debate, my people, two years, not one year. 2 years, so we have to be ashamed that 100 units of local self-government that are 40 and 30 and 50%, we haven't resolved until today because 2 years we've been working on one bad package or vice versa, after 2 years we've thrown out a bad package. And they were such simple solutions. A different redistribution for mountain-mounted units, the income tax itself, and we could give them something more, and what's most important is that we should have introduced them into the Island Act by the incentives from part of the infrastructure and economic activity. So the obvious problem is how to do it now that we have a budget debate on Thursday, but we're talking about, we're going to do it half next year, we're doing it for two years, so we didn't do it. We can't believe and obviously that there's no seriousness in the messages being sent, but simply when we see the results of the ruse that we're going to make with such legal solutions, then we're going to ask ourselves, what now? But... That's right, there goes a year that may have tragic consequences, especially for local self-government in Gorski Kotar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, an unprofessional proposal, he'd better back off. We still have the possibility tomorrow to adopt a proposal and in the Law on Islands to solve the whole of Gorski Kotar and perhaps some more units of mountainous mountainous mountainous, perhaps and what it is, we will discuss tomorrow the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and by redistributing those taxes we can make an important correction to impact the units of Gorski Kotar downgrade and I think these are the most serious solutions is this solution a disgrace from the legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92885	Thank you very much. We have exhausted a list of registered clubs for discussion on this topic in the Croatian Parliament, a single debate of representatives for 10 minutes is in order. First up, he's a respected colleague of Luke Denon's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92886	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, I think that today's day-long debate is especially about this law that preceded these amendments and the additions of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area have told us everything more or less. What has to be done is that, by abolishing this law, part of the units of local self-government that I had so to say, even if you smiled at that privilege to be about mountain-mounted so that through these measures adopted by this law, they did not go back and remained according to these new criteria and indices have been redeveloped, and in reality, the units of local self-government that should, by changing or applying other indices, come into this position like these other units of local self-government. I believe I don't know how to judge people well, which way seems to me that in today's debate, you're a little uncomfortable a few times. I'm embarrassed when we have to say things like this, but I come from that constituency and I have to say it. So I'm a little in doubt, we're talking about going now with these changes and additions, but the Hill and Mountain Area Act is not going to touch it, so we're going to change it in a year, two, three days until we write a new law on mountainous and mountainous areas that will first and foremost resemble those of the island law because somehow we've agreed that after all, the units of Gorski Kotar are some kind of island. So we said we remain the law, not the law is abolished, but these amendments and additions make no sense for the law to remain for blueberries and as a good colleague said about fresh air. Let's stop him right now, there's no need to fool the people of Gorski Kotar, ourselves and do what common sense says is not good. It's my suggestion to stay complete, not to change it until it has matured this new law on mountain-mounted areas that will also respect all these specialities so that I don't count them anymore. Could they... change? They did. You know, in the previous debate, I didn't want to mention it because I don't think it's good to mention both HDZ and SDP here, and I don't know who not, but it's been kidnapped by the minister that these are the criteria and indices brought by HDZ. Are they good? Maybe they were good back then. So let's change them we had time to change these indices so that the vast majority of people and units of local self-government with these amendments to this whole legislation aren't too unhappy because too much dissatisfaction isn't good, and it could have been done. You're saying that we didn't propose, we did, we did, we did, and we talked to the Minister and the Ministry and the Unit of Local Self-Government and Administration like the County, so we cited examples of Slovenia, Austria, Italy, where they also have special laws that recognise the specificity of mountain-goran areas and specific criteria that determine the indices of development such as the share of the population over 65 years old in the total population, the mileage of roads that are unclassified from the population, the area of the local self-government unit over 2,000 km square, the density of population, the specificity of the parameters, demographic movements, and in some way we gave the opportunity to put into it the age coefficient, the age index, the vital coefficient for these young people who are there and other climate features. We are witnessing not to say today there is fog, and in Dubrovnik there are 18 degrees and people are bathing, so some climate characteristics are quite different than elsewhere. Transport isolation despite the highway passing through this Gorski Kotar and ecological sensitivity area, the availability of natural resources of national interest because there goes both the pipeline and the pipeline and the highway and the power lines all of this goes through, these are resources of national interest. Environmental sensitivity, too. ...that this criterion I can work under the Mountain Kotar's tank of drinking water, so we could have wanted it. Unfortunately, the indices seem to be the biggest distraction and the biggest distraction that this is a little bit more so that I would say sensitivity and understanding to part of the municipalities of Gorski Kotar that this can be overcome. Here I am also, as my colleague earlier said by the optimist, I think it can still be overcome if there is enough understanding and good will, of course, without in any way harming and harming the units of local self-government that are entering these assisted areas at the moment. Because I'm afraid you know the indices are very stretchy, and the indexes are some blame for the seventh, so they said don't lean out the window, so here I'm praying that in some way this law or leave itself entirely as it was said or let it be abolished because that blueberry really doesn't need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92887	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92888	Thank you very much. My colleague Denon fully agrees with you with everything you've said and now we don't have a lot of moments or options of reaction. The only reaction that could be to adopt this law. to be rejected so that this article that is now being abolished is still some help and then there will be a problem with that other law, if it is adopted. It means that this debate still makes sense because it's given some new government lmputations, i.e. To the ministry, something from the island law should also be applied to the Gorski Kotar. Here, allow free road transport for students, students, pensioners, elderly people. Because really the first move that was made was to stop their dialysis. We remember, everyone has to travel to Rijeka even though they had a center that was in Delnice. So it could also be through this law if you want to add some of the measures that we have there, you can get more favourable HBOR loans by 2%. Why can't we get support from employers in the Gorski Kotar, there really aren't too many of them there? So some kind of one or a half gross salary per employee per year. It's what's in the island law, and it doesn't touch the Regional Development Act at all, but some small positions. I always say, that's what I was saying and while we were in power, one big mistake was, the PPDS and the islands had their own administrations that implemented the law and worried that the law was being implemented. Unfortunately, mountain-mounted areas have always been attached, let's say the PPDS Act, i.e. Regional Development Administration, and has always been one position of 20 million kuna, which was capital aid to local self-government. We all know that the biggest cost of local self-government in the mountain cotter is snow, i.e. elemental accident, i.e. Let's say road maintenance. And even that state can react so that in some way through other measures, through this law, if it's going to stay to think until that fifth month, we don't know if it's going to be like that, that at least something comes back if there's nothing else we can do. Here, and it wouldn't cost much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92889	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92890	So as you yourself said through this whole day's debate from somewhere, what 11 to 12 hours and here until 9 o'clock tonight, so we presented both and the third set of possibilities, or the need in which this current situation can be overcome, which is that the units of Gorski kotar and I now explicitly speak only of them, not of other units of local self-government are twice not put in an awkward position. So through the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, through the abolition, not leaving the mountain-mounted law in force twice, I don't think I know how much they don't deserve by these indices. So at the end when we've reduced everything to some kind of money it turns out that for the new solutions offered by this law for these 100ths, 120 units of local self-government in other areas of Croatia 100 will be spent or compensated 180 million kunas and here we talk all day about 25, not those 30 I said but even less. Well, if the state of Croatia can't find those 25 million kunas somewhere to make up for them and stay on the same level as they are now and then listen, what more should be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92891	Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92892	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You mentioned indexed criteria to which the minister called and said they were passed during the Croatian Democratic Community government. True and true, and you said society is dynamic and these indices can and should change. However, this amendment to this law is, in fact, as counterpart Linic said, a panic fear was of Goran's reaction and should be said. Given the mountainous and mountainous areas and what you've been saying, this is happening to you in the Dalmatian hinterland, and in fact this law has been passed because of the difficult conditions in these areas. And now these changes that are related to only one article, which is that this part of the income tax is left to units of local self-government in the mountainous and mountainous area I will tell you on the example of the Dalmatian hinterland which you expect from that tax when almost no company works for you. So you didn't really leave anything, you didn't leave anything behind, you didn't give units to local self-government in the area. That is why the debate on the Regional Development Act was held all day, and we have warned that what is passed by this law is actually not good, that it has been too long, and that it is now under urgent procedure to extract funds from the European Union, or from these European Union funds, that this law is passed just before the end of the year, which is actually not good, and that there has been enough time to think about all this and even the indices or criteria related to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92893	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92894	Well, I wouldn't talk about it. It was time. There wasn't time. We are in a situation in which we are today to pass these laws but when we all know that one part of the units of local self-government that have had certain status so far with changes and additions as proposed and do nothing to fix it, I don't think it's good. Now we all see that's not good. But if we all see that it is not good to put one part of the Republic of Croatia back but where it was not good. Whether it's part of the mountain cotter, hill-mounted parts like that, it's also not controversial. So we're where we are, no matter if we've had time, if we could do it better, now we know what the amounts are about, we know what indices or what needs to be changed. Do you need to change the rate of income tax that these units are going to be in full, I don't know that, but now we've offered tonight and today a whole day of 20-odd solutions. Which are good, I don't know at this point, but let's see if something good comes out of this debate in the end, and we'll end up acting like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92895	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of clubs and a single list of representatives, replicas and replies to the replica. Proposer's closing statement, on behalf of Deputy Minister Jakša Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92896	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Since we've still got the strength to stay this late, listen to the debate, good for you. The debate was certainly constructive, sometimes I think we've crossed some boundaries, but well, I guess it's an integral part of every debate about such sensitive laws. But what I'm saying is, when we talk about solutions, about better solutions than what you're offered, don't forget the situation in the state budget, don't forget what we started when we started working on these changes to the legal package, and that's all the solutions have to be such that they don't increase the deficit of the state budget. What colleagues are proposing, and that is, if I understand well enough to leave the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas as it is, that means leaving the current system in which to help give some of the highly developed units that I think are indisputable, which we talked about today, which would mean that still from the state budget the funds are going. I'm just gonna name Matulje and Buzet. 23 million kuna from the state budget for the Matuls, if we don't change the law. If we don't change the law. You said let's not change the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. The existing categorization says Matulje mountain-mountan area, Buzet mountain-mountin area. 13 million and 700 thousand kuna for a municipality that has a slightly higher unemployment rate than the natural rate, somewhere around 7%, 6. So we're in a kind of trap. So what we're saying is we make a minor mistake, if we're going to talk about it, now we're going to do an end to these promotional measures for mountainous and mountainous areas that are as bad as they are now in the law, and we're going to make sure that there are no significant problems in the functioning of local self-government. This transitional aid has already been put into the state budget and then in the next six months we make a better law, respecting all the constructive proposals that we have today had the opportunity to hear. There's a lot of them. But in doing so again, all these proposals must not increase the deficit of the state budget. This means that if we are to introduce new measures such as measures of the Law on Islands, then we will have to put on the table a state budget and see from which items we will redistribute the funds for Gorski Kotar or for some other areas such as the areas in Ličko-Senj County. Then we can't say that the separation for the islands will continue to take place with this existing level, and that the state finds some additional means, however it knows and can be used for the Gorski Kotar, because it's simply a situation that we can't do any additional burden on the state budget. That's why we say all the time that this package means redistribution. And we say that the imperfection of the development index isn't perfect, that doesn't mean it's bad. No one said that by the government that he was bad. He's the best we have right now, but we said that the development index isn't enough and that's why we're going with the categorization of the area with developmental specificities. But it remains open so for all observations, suggestions on how to improve the development index itself. But that's not the point, the point is that the categorization of mountain-mounted areas that is now, is not good and needs to be changed. It's independent of the development index, it has nothing to do with the development index. Just one example for Chabar would like to share with you, so what happens in Chabra, which may be one of the ones in the most difficult position, given where they are, how isolated they are. Probably the most isolated unit in the Republic of Croatia and certainly needs a certain type of support and we are sure that Chabar will enter the areas with developmental specialities as such. But to know what happens to the Chabra budget in 2015, so this is a comparison with 2013 where we have the final data. 11.7 million kunas were Chabra's business revenues. From that, the state left the city of Chabra 3 million kuna through the profit tax and income tax. The transitional aid for the town of Chabar is 65% out of 3 million kuna, meaning 2 million kuna. The town of Chabar will have an increased share of income tax that jumps from 56.5% to 60% on the basis of amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government units. There's another 190 thousand kuna just because of the 3.5%. The final effect is -866,000. The town of Chabar will have -866 thousand kuna in 2015. But at the same time, the Primorje-Gorski County records plus 486 thousand. Because that's what we're saying, there's a redistribution of income. A certain portion of the Cabra city's income goes to the Primorje-Gorski County. And we repeat, we appeal to the mayors to return that money in 2015 and then that total loss for the town of Chabar will be much smaller. Much smaller. I think the same thing should be considered, that it should be fair when we talk about it. But I repeat, the fundamental problem of this whole story is the poor categorization of mountain-mounted areas, and what we propose and what we promise to come to the Croatian Parliament by summer 2015 with a much better, much better quality categorization and then to tie the measures accordingly to the budgetary possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92897	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have replicas. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92898	Dear Deputy Minister, when you spoke of the benefits of the mountain-mountan mountain, you mentioned Matulji, Buzet as some examples. Take off Matulji and Buzet, Mr. Linic said take off Novi Vinodolski too. It doesn't make sense that they're there if they have that status, and they've gone beyond that development criterion in what is real. So don't touch the Chabar, the Locks, the Marble, the Straight Mountain, the Skrad. All those units of local self-government exactly what Mirkovic told you in front of the SDP club, what they were doing with the funds they had under the existing law, which they won't be able to do now because you took them. As for the county and the additional burden on the state budget, which additional burden on the state budget is if people remain what they had, if you lift that status, I don't know Matulji, Buzet, or I don't know those who have been redeveloped on realistic grounds. What is this burden on the state budget? State deficit. So you're not going to solve it with any measures, no laws until it finally starts to invest, until the construction sector rises, until the construction company builds a company, digs in with a bagger, until the ceramic man sets up the tiles, until the plumber sets up. It's the essence of life and all these investments. We can talk about European resources here, they can launch these projects, they can develop. But they can't essentially erase this illogicality that you're proposing and this law that more maimed like this is simply the best thing to do is to withdraw. And the regional development of categorization, indexation, what we are talking about, and European standards when they talk about mountainous, border areas, areas that have hundreds of kilometers of unclassified roads that need to be maintained together. Winter service, so it's got to go to somebody, somebody's got to pay for it. Local self-government units can't. We've taken these funds from them, taken their income tax money, and waited for some law in six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92899	Thank you very much. Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92900	Maybe you didn't get me right. So the question of categorization is not something we do with our left hand. We can't just overwrite the Matuls. We can't just overwrite Buzet. And we can't leave someone just like that. That's what we're saying, that's the point of the criteria and that's the point when we say that this is a bad categorization because the criteria weren't transparent, they weren't clear, they weren't well calculated. I'm just telling you that if we want to fix the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, it's not overnight. We cannot just overwrite certain municipalities, and leave some without clear criteria, and that takes time. But we have to make these changes, because these changes that we propose in the Law on Mountain Areas are opening up opportunities for us to introduce incentives for those hundred units that have been waiting 20 years to enter the system. That's what this is about. Each of these measures, which would have been left in the Law on hill-mounted areas, would have meant less for those hundreds of units, for 45 new units in Slavonia. Now you tell me what to do in that equation? Should we cut these 100, then, and less suffering from the existing mountain-mountan areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92901	New replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92902	Mr. Deputy Minister, for two years, the ministry with the entire team has been working on these laws for two years. And now you're telling us here we can't do it overnight. Two years of public debate, working on it all. So I'm not going to talk now about the criteria that you went to determine the development index. But I do have an island law, and we know how it's financed and where the funds come from. And what was the problem in those two years, not yesterday, two years, or if you want 720, 730 days you had enough time to find the criteria by which you would say that the old population, small population, poverty, small pensions, a little work-active, whatever criteria you could list cities and municipalities under the Law on Mountains say they are looking for a special solution. By these criteria, we will transfer them to the Island Law. But when you talk about the island law, it's not an extra expense to the state budget. It's a certain redistribution, so it has to be a little bit more deployed in the roads for these special towns and municipalities of the hill-mounted mountains that you had to choose because you were two years old. So you could also find that Croatian forests will not export the damn tree, they will not export. It must be given to any processing, final processing under the most favourable conditions. Well, I'm sorry, it's still better than to export a tree to Germany, Austria, Italy. You could also say that water will be given in such a way that someone should not do studies like this, studies like that, pay for enormous funds if he wants a small hydropower plant, etc. But in the Gorski kotar, in Lika, not elsewhere. Therefore, for two years you had time to choose and then go on quite different incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92903	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92904	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy, I disagree with you that you can't. Let me remind you, we're all talking about New Vinodolski. The new Vinodolski is not in the hill-mounted area. Why? On the proposal of the Assembly Committee on Local Self-Government when the conditions were met after the census you were a ministry that you said you couldn't enter, you were developed. Did you say that as a ministry in your memo? I'm talking about it here on behalf of the club. So you've determined that someone can't even have conditions, and the condition was they have fewer inhabitants than 20 per square mile. And now you're saying that you can't delete the Matulas from Article 3 because you caught on to him to take everyone else because it's unfair. They got 20 million, and they shouldn't because they're developed. And then we take everyone linearly who needs and who has and who doesn't have to justify Matulya Community. So if you can't classify New Vindolski because it was the Ministry's position I think then the Ministry's position will remain in this law if I'm not mistaken, you can change it. And it won't bother anyone, I believe it won't bother you, will it? It won't bother you. So you can do whatever you want and always the state could and politics could, she can explain everything. And no one will complain about it. But to leave a piece of shit like this, I can't believe it. Because the islands have 135 thousand inhabitants, for road transport and for support to island employers 42 million. And here we have 26 grand, we have 5 times less. So even 10 million would not have to be set aside for that, if we're going to start dealing with it properly, it means analytically based on facts. And let's not say we can't when we know we can. You've had 750 million this year, 100 you've rebalanced back to the state, and all the time you're saying you don't have any money. You got it, you got 100 million back, and you didn't spend it. You could have given 20 to the Gorski kotar, 20 to the whole mountainous area, 30 islands. So you can, but you won't. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92905	Thank you very much. Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92906	No, we can't just wipe with the left hand of a community that's coming in, that's staying. No, we can't and we don't want to do that, no, no. We'll wipe out the Matuls with our left hand, and tell me what we're going to do with the visual municipalities that the good part meets the mountain-mounted criteria because they're simply above certain altitudes? What do we do with them? Put them in with your left hand, too? We can't do that. We have to bring the criteria. We have to do it that way. As far as only one more sentence is concerned, he would comment on the previous presentation of MP Linic. Yes, surely we can do a lot more for the Gorski kotar if we better direct investment from public companies. There is a real supply of opportunities for the development of the mountain cotter which has not been used enough. It may not be something that needs to be settled by law, perhaps it is, well we'll talk about it in the coming months, but it's certainly a much greater potential to help Gorski Kotar than it is to increase the share of income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92907	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replicas. That's what the debate on the text of the law is over with. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending the Law on mountain-mounted areas, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 741, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club and the Independent Representative Furi Radin and the HNS Representatives' Club. I would like a representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Jakshu Puljiza to be shown about the amendment of the IDS and Furi Radin Club. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92909	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92910	An explanation, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92911	The promoter remains at the transition to a new system of detachment of less developed areas based on the development index, binding all measures to encourage less developed areas, belonging to the local self-government unit of assisted areas, i.e. areas lagging more than 25% behind the average of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the measures for the reduction of profit tax revenue in favour of less developed units are also transferred to the new Regional Development Act and linked to the Index of Development. In this regard, we stress that 10 units of local self-government from mountainous and mountainous areas that have the status of assisted areas will continue to seek to benefit from this assistance. For units that lose the right to the same, a three-year transitional period shall be provided in which a gradual aid right is gradually granted. The government has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on the implementation of the State budget for 2015, which increases the intensity of the transitional aid by 5% by the third group from 65 to 70 and by the fourth group from 40 to 45%
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92912	Amendment holder, Honored Representative Valter Bjemunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92913	Well, you said 10 kept, but 36 didn't. It is a direct blow to the standard of these people with the Law on Regional Design and the abolition of this profit tax, therefore in measures such as it has been so far, this standard will fall significantly. These areas, thanks to these funds, have come to some average standard, and removing it will put them back where they were. In the mountain-mounted area, these are not ski trails so that there are people in winter. It's uninhabited areas, it's a weak traffic connection, there's no phone anywhere, and these people are barely living with these means that they get what they see as more and more people leaving these places. I think this is the way in which poor neighborhoods are taken money in a way that goes into the state register instead of them managing that money, it's definitely going towards breaking these people's standards. I believe that this proposal of yours and the refusal of amendments as well as the previous law is in no way good and I ask for a vote, to see that these people are still as helpful as they can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92914	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the IDS and Furia Radina Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. The amendment has not received the required majority. We are going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Amendment number one, the Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92915	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment is not in line with one of the basic reasons why the redefined existing legal framework was approached, which is a complete transition to the new categorisation of territorial units towards the degree of development and the binding of aid intensity with the development index. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia remains with its proposal, a legal solution whereby units of local self-government from mountainous and mountainous areas that acquire the status of assisted areas exercise the right to revenue from the profit tax achieved in their area under the Regional Development Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92916	On behalf of the club, respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92917	First of all, there's obviously been some mistake. I made the amendment myself, not the HNS club. But probably because I personally submitted the first to regional development. However, the idea was with this amendment that this transitional period to be submitted should be submitted by local self-government units in the mountainous and mountainous areas in a easier way, i.e. the reduction of those funds for that part of the local self-government units is still prolonged. I would, however, ask, given that it is primarily about the Gorski Kotar vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92918	Are you asking for a vote? I didn't understand. Is he asking for a vote? I'd like to make a statement on the amendment here in the title of the club-respected MPs, which is why I'm reading you from a club of representatives of the HNS that the government doesn't accept. Voting's over, please score? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two of the same club representatives, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92919	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Namely, this amendment binds itself to the previous amendment so that the same arguments do not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92920	Appreciation of the respected representative, Nada Turina-Djuric, on behalf of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92921	I would still like to vote on this amendment, although of course it will have no purpose since it did not go first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92922	Please vote on amendment number two of the HNS representatives the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 32 votes against the Law amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Now let's go to the next one. This is - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 750; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure discussed the final draft law were implemented by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, Deputy Minister, Jaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92924	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special State Care, we believe, will improve the procedure for resolving housing requirements, which has been implemented since 1.05.2013 when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Special State Care Act has been implemented in the first instance in the offices of the State Administration in the counties and the competent administrative body of the City of Zagreb. And in order to bring these proceedings to an end. The reason for these amendments to the law is, in addition, the adoption of the Law on Regional Development and thus the need to delete Articles 22 and 25 in the Law on areas of special state care. As regards this first reason, after taking over the responsibility for the resolution in the first degree on the right to housing of the administration of the county districts, they expressed their objections to the conductability of the Law on the areas of special state care and were asked to submit their proposals to amend and supplement laws which were then partially introduced into the text of this proposal. This proposal therefore proposes amendments and additions to administrative action in the administrative area of housing to improve it and achieve greater efficiency in the process. Also, some changes and additions refer to the nomotechnical regulation of the laws' statements. It is therefore proposed to prescribe in this proposal that in places where the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is not equipped with a family home or an apartment whose surface is consistent with the areas referred to in Articles 9b(1) and 2. The PPDS Act may and may not be more detachable from that area. Then the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, of course with the prior consent of the party, provides for residence care in this case. Furthermore, this bill proposes to add that the lists of championships are sorted according to municipalities and cities. It is also proposed to shorten the time limit for the submission of applications for housing so that the deadline is until 15 March, instead of 31 March, and accordingly to move the deadline for publication of established lists of championships by 30.3. instead of 30.4. and the deadline for publication of the Executive Lists of Championships until 15 May instead of 31 May. It is also proposed to extend the deadline for the statement of objections so that the deadline is 15 days. Furthermore, it is also proposed to prescribe that the Offices of State Administration in Countys and the competent administrative body of the City of Zagreb are obliged to submit a report on the implementation of housing care to the State Department for Reconstruction and Housing. It is proposed to specify which documentation is most frequently required and which is most frequently requested in accordance with Article 12(3), in addition to the one prescribed in Article 12(2). It is also proposed to lay down that certain categories of applicants who are resident through a regional housing programme where they are not able, for particular reasons, to attach the documentation required in Articles 12 and 12 of paragraphs 3 and 4 and 5 and relating to real estate in other countries, to ensure that they fulfil the conditions laid down in those provisions, with exceptional regard to my application of a certified declaration under full criminal and material responsibility. In addition, in the process of laying down the right to housing by giving the building material for repairing the family home or apartment, it is proposed to allow for the extraordinary exercise of that right to certain categories of applicants who are providing housing through regional housing, pardon, further proposing to prescribe housing options outside the championship list in particular circumstances such as severe damage to housing facilities due to fires, floods and other weather accidents, and due to the difficult health and social opportunities of applicants or family members of applicants. Furthermore, this draft law proposes to delete Article 23(2), (3) and (4) and in the transitional and final provisions of this legislative proposal that the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing take over from the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds part of the business relating to the technical realisation of the purchase, renovation and construction of housing, pardon from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, part of the tasks relating to the technical realisation of the purchase, reconstruction and construction of housing units for the purpose of implementing housing programmes and, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the areas of the Special State of Care, as well as equipment, food and other documentation, means of work, financial resources and rights and obligations relatively undertaken obligations both by state officials and subsistence. In the transitional and final provisions of this legislative solution, it is proposed to prescribe that a powerful solution and consent which are not executively amended or abolished and replace new provisions of this law, depending on the nature of the matter and the consequences that would arise by changing or abolishing the situation in the meantime. Furthermore, it is proposed to provide in transitional and final provisions that the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing will require the Office of State Administration in Countys and the competent administrative authority of the City of Zagreb to establish, under official duty, whether persons staying in dwellings in state-owned housing managed by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care under the Act of the Authority of the State Administration, the local and regional self-government units or public undertakings have the right to housing under the Law on the areas of special state care unless their right is regulated by some specific law. And as regards harmonisation with the Regional Development Act, it is a matter of eradicating provisions relating to the retention of income from profit tax and the transfer of income from the exploitation of mineral raw materials. These provisions are transposed into the Regional Development Act by analogy as it was done in the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92925	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to be going after the representatives' clubs. It is next to the club of Independent Representatives Linić, Vukšić and Hodzic on behalf of the club Slavko Linic. Here's my colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92926	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. The question remains whether or not this law is necessary. Why? It is obvious that the Regional Development Act has taken over the basic criteria and that is the development index, and that is why we want to finance these specific areas. And obviously, it would be far more appropriate to propose a new Law on the right to housing where we see that we have changed the competent authority, that we change certain criteria and that we want to be far more responsible and specifically concerned only with housing. And I don't think that housing should be tied to all the problems we've had on the areas of special state care. But obviously, even though we had two years at our disposal, we haven't seriously approached such problems, because if we had the index to solve it, the index in the field of special state care has nevertheless given us a certain advantage, we see, unfortunately, that we have far greater imbalances in these areas, so we have far more units than it was until yesterday, so it doesn't feel that impact, but obviously we haven't made a new law and that basically the new House Care Act is something that is going to die today, and this bill is going to die too. And if we could've done it by now and discussed it today, we did. Thus, a law that we can support but clearly does not solve what they mean by the problems of areas of special state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92927	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists, the honourable representative Mladen Novak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92928	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy with an associate. To be honest, in the debate, I was most encouraged by the report of the Committee on Legislatives, and that point 4 of that report, in which it stands - an observation is made that the proposer finds, in an appropriate manner, his amendment in Article 19 where the decision and consent are not carried out. It is legally inadmissible and endangers the legal certainty of citizens to change, abolish or replace powerful solutions and consent with the discretionary assessment of the competent authorities. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because, although it is not directly related to the modification of these articles that apply here, but the immigrants from BiH who have changed the Law on Areas of Special State Care in 2011 have practically lost the opportunity, i.e. the right to settle their housing issue, i.e. those people who were situated in cities and now lists them in order, I find it interesting that those who are normally located primarily in the Sisak-Moslavina County area. The second example is the inhabitants of the village..., I must admit that I have never heard of that village from Kosovo before. The residents who are situated in the current exile settlement of Mala Gorica. I was there the other night, I must admit that I, that I should come to see it, really no story can tell enough what it looks like there. But these same people were invited to Croatia, they were up in the 7th month of '99. They addressed the late President Tudjman and the Croatian government and sought the opportunity to take care of them in Croatia. And '99. On 28 October, the Prime Minister of the Government, Zlatko Mateša, makes, or signs, the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the APPN Agency to take care of these people and to grant them houses for use, i.e. ten years without compensation, means they only have to be 10 years in those houses with the right to acquire ownership of those properties at the end of that deadline. However, the situation is very different now. These people are in the exile settlement of Mala Gorica, soon to move them, or they are announced to move them to the village..., unfinished. In their words, unfinished houses with rent. Now I'm asking you, if they're moving them to rent, then why would someone go to a village that honestly isn't exactly in the usual traffic directions. If they already have to pay the rent, then these people will surely choose a city settlement and avoid the costs of transportation among other things. On the other hand, in this new neighborhood... there's no school, it's mostly younger people who have a couple of kids, which is what we're holding them back, which is what we're motivateing them to stay except for once we've cheated them neatly. Whom, I don't understand who's going to be empty because they won't be living in the area, so they're going to have to pay the rent, and then another transport to the first one, let's say, some places where they can make their way to their jobs. The problem is, now it connects to another topic, are their identity cards that all read, or have in them..., no number. And now it's not about what they may not be entitled to vote, but they won't exercise the right to a child's allowance, and they're mostly families with two, three, but mostly five, six, and even one family with ten children. I don't know if you're aware that even this investment that's been made in the village... that there's simply no such force that seems to force them to live where they have no elemental conditions. And on the other hand, we have a situation in that same area of Sisak-Moslavina County, that we have a number of housing units that are allegedly bought, but simply not assigned. So then we have a situation that a man lives, or family lives in a house where, believe it or not, he's still ground floor, and 500 meters away from him is a house that's in a far better condition, normally, the tooth of time has made its own, but that house can't get. I don't know if the stories are true, but you can hear the stories of individuals being assigned two, three houses all the time. Is that, is someone working to check it, is it possible to determine the truthfulness of these allegations because, according to this text of the law... according to all the amendments to this law so far, it has never been tried to solve this problem and your, let's say, organisational change that you are proposing here a very convenient explanation for why it is proposed, for the reason that the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estates has never taken over the work relating to the technical realization of procurement, etc., etc. I believe that no one has ever taken responsibility for that either, and now that it's about taking over a job now it's more and more groundless to say whether anyone will be responsible for something that no longer exists. This debate of mine is not too much about the amendment or the articles that you have spoken, but it is very much about those life problems that arise from this law. And now I have to mention that this is really the package that we're discussing today, and most of all, the area I come from is affected by that criterion or by the indexation that was mentioned several times today, the unemployment criterion. We have a situation that even the town of Sisak has nothing more to do, people are leaving. And we have or not exclusively not, but we have an old population that remains or those who work in the state administration and what still works. On the other hand, Linic had just before spoken possible criteria that had not been mentioned, can you believe that, for example, one of the criteria that might need to be taken into account is still the indetermination of an area. Do you believe that until last school year, the children went to school through a minefield. I thank CROMAC for making the action and demining that part of the area, but we haven't solved anything with it because the public transport owned by the town of Sisak, the founder of the school city of Sisak, simply doesn't want to reroute the buses that way. To talk about areas of special state concern, and it was originally intended if I remember this law well enough to lead, let's say further concern about areas that were killed by war. This area was killed by war is still another county by the number of mines that are there, couldn't it also be one of the criteria that might have been considered? As for this part itself, we can accept what my predecessor said, and it doesn't matter if it's all in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92929	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92930	If we had talked earlier about what you said, maybe you wouldn't have answered the word, and maybe I wouldn't have spoken for the line if there were 14 of us, and probably if we had talked about it ourselves, we'd have done it so much better. We're limited in time. Anyway, what I think, and you've come up with these issued solutions, or these amendments and the additions to the PPDS Act, I'm not sure that this applies to these people that you're talking about right now, and maybe it does, I don't know maybe I'm wrong. But I know that a lot of people got a solution on housing when Croatia was to enter the EU or after the negotiations were concluded, so they had to be satisfied with taking care of refugees and exiles, or refugees who left these areas, so they were just printed solutions without a solution to be assigned to them by some housing unit. And as for the other things you've been talking about, I don't think... he can just assign objects he has because they're state facilities that are probably run under the AUDI, and the other thing is that I don't know if anyone in Croatia can get state property, I mean, first of all, housing, and not pay rent. It may be, but let's just say it's just the defenders of some particular group or disabled person, but the welfare center pays them. But I'm not sure that people who came out of the Republic of Croatia are perhaps Croatian citizens on call to get some object not to pay the rent. So I'm not sure about this whole story that it's about that, but maybe before that we talked about this discussion or this replica, it wouldn't have happened. But unfortunately, I'm not happy either when we're having discussions late, but this just probably means more to us for the record, and it doesn't do anything else, so maybe... which is the essence of these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92931	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92932	Thank you very much. My colleague, we talked about something else a little while ago, so we agreed that sometimes in these late hours, they're more quality discussions than they are to say Alan Fordowski in the morning, that when it's important for the media to pass on. What we have today is from the Office of the Government... and it is decadently said that it is from Kosovo villages and now, among other things, the Kosovo village of the Yearbook and I read from that document two days ago I was with these people, so this definitely fits the truth. Now why did they end up like that? In the meantime, they were getting some sort of solution to this first or first solution that they got based on this conclusion of the government is really all like this. After six months they got it and they signed it, after six months they got some completely different solutions that they didn't sign anywhere, but they got it in the mail. And as for these divisions of houses that you said, you can't just be assigned, look here I would a little quote Mr. Linic, it's not just like that it's not even been about these two years what Mr. Linic is saying, here it's about a proud year, the proud year has a man in one house looking at the other, knows that it's been bought, nothing happens to her, it still fails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92933	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy, Here's counterpart Novak started with a story, a sad story from Sisak-Moslavina County, unfortunately it's not the only story in Croatia with similar words. I'm just going to take an example to say that in the small municipality of Antunovac near Osijek you have an entire settlement built by the state to take care of returnees who have not been legalized, who have received... the situation in which they had to invest a lot and now if the holder of the household law dies, they have no right to buy that house, nor to get the funds they have invested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But tonight we are discussing the law, or amendments to the Law on Areas of Special State Care, so that I can return to the subject. The main objective of these amendments and the addition of the laws is to improve the procedures for resolving housing requirements and to make these procedures more efficient. I will remind you that the mentioned items have been implemented in the first degree in the offices of the state administration in the county and city of Zagreb since 1 May 2013. Thus, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Specific State Care, which was prescribed by the abovementioned amendments, entered into force. After taking over responsibilities, they implemented the resolution in the first instance of the Office of State Administration in the counties made their remarks on the feasibility of the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and proposed some solutions that should improve and facilitate their work in the mentioned field of work. Their comments and suggestions are included in part in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, which I am particularly pleased with. I believe that it is always necessary to listen to the profession, especially the one involved in implementing certain legal rules, because they are always given quality suggestions and clear remarks on certain things and problems and concerns in practice. So other than the regulation of nomotechnical expression, which is also the practice of amending and supplementing all the laws that we are mainly discussing here, the main set of amendments and additions concern precisely the management of housing and with the aim of improving and achieving the effectiveness of procedures. When we are already talking about nomotechnics in this bill, it is proposed to prescribe that, in places where the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is available to any apartment, there is a family home whose area is in line with the area referred to in Article 9b of this Act, there may be greater deviations from that area and that housing in this case the approval is granted by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care and that, of course, the consent of the party is also required. This legislative act also contains a proposal to add that the lists of championships are sorted according to municipalities and cities. It is also proposed to shorten the time limit for submission of applications for housing. That deadline would be until 15 February, instead of being until 31 March and the deadlines for publication of the established lists of championships by 30 March instead of 30 April would be moved. As well as the deadline for publication of the executive lists of the championship by May 15th instead of May 31st. Furthermore, it is proposed to extend the deadline for the statement of objections so that the total deadline is 15 days. The proposal also provides for state administrations in the counties and the competent administrative authorities of the city of Zagreb in charge of the State Department for Reconstruction and Housing Care to submit a report on the implementation of housing care which will enable us, as a legislator, to understand the implementation and to mean the speed of efficiency of the mentioned. It is also a proposal to prescribe which documentation is most often required and which is most often required in accordance with Article 12. According to this proposal, the law of a particular category of applicants who are residently provided through a regional housing programme in the event where, for particularly justified reasons, they cannot attach the requested documentation and which, above all, refers to properties in other countries, may be accompanied by a certified declaration guaranteeing, under full criminal responsibility and material responsibility, that they fulfil the conditions. In addition, in the process of establishing the right to housing, the donation of building materials for the repair of the family home may also, in exceptional cases, be made possible by the exercise of that right to certain categories of applicants and, for particular reasons, cannot offer the requested documentation or proof that they fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 12 of this Act. In this case, they are obliged, as in the previous case, to propose, upon request, a certified declaration so that, under full criminal and material responsibility, they guarantee that they meet those conditions. In special situations such as severe damage to housing due to fires, floods or other accidents, as well as severe health and social opportunities for applicants or members of the family of applicants for this proposal, the law provides for the possibility of housing outside the list of championships. As the Deputy Minister has already said, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is taking over from the Ministry of Regional Development and European Union funds some of the jobs relating to technical realisation and procurement, purchases of pardons, reconstruction and construction of housing units, and equipment, archive and other documentation, as well as proportionate financial resources and rights and obligations of relatively undertaken businesses. The transitional and final provisions of this Act propose that a powerful solution and consent which so far has not been made to amend or abolish and replace new provisions of this Act, of course, depends on the nature of things and the consequences that would arise by changing or abolishing, assuming, in the meantime, that the changed circumstances have occurred. Also, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing will require the Office of State Administration in the County and City of Zagreb to establish, under official duty, whether persons currently staying in state-owned dwellings which it manages to mention on the basis of acts, so the authorities of the state administration, units of local self-government and local self-government or public enterprises have the right to housing under this law. Due to all of the above, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on areas of special state concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92935	A group of Independent Representatives was contacted by Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her right. Also on behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Milan Jurkovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, Madam President. I do not want to engage in explaining these technical and nomotechnical matters, although I personally believe that or that the observations of the Office of State Administration will be countyal as a proposal from the field of good solution and that some things I hope can be fixed. What bothers me or offends me in this law is the re-indexation, the re-negotiation of the rights of individual units of local administration and self-government, but that I no longer enter into this late hour. What would be in the PPDS Act, all of these are war-affected areas, and other than housing, which is certainly extremely important, and when a resident can't live off, I'm going back to water and air, but I need a job and a certain infrastructure. You have announced the adoption of the Housing Law, so I ask you whether through this law or through some other law within your ministry in the PPDS Law, additional incentive measures should also be implemented for reviving the economy, encouraging investment and employment in order to stop young people and educated people from leaving these areas without talking about attracting others. One survey, I don't know if it's true, about the mood of Croats, about the job being searched in the European Union countries or around the world, says 47% accept such a solution. This is not good for Croatia and let's try to change it. I've tried to be as brief as possible, not repeat myself on all those questions that have been said, including minions. Mr. Novosel is from the county that's second, I'm from the county that's the first, unfortunately, to get ahead of that kind of thing, but for tonight, I think that's enough. I thank you and you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92937	Thank you. Does the proposing representative want to speak in a final manner? Yeah. Dear Jaksa Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92938	Honorable Vice President, respected MPs and MPs, only MPs. Just one announcement actually I want to share with you, and that is that this really is about one transitional solution to this amendment and addition. Next year, as we are going to the new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, we are going to the new Law on Housing, with a new approach to housing, with new criteria, with new opportunities and we are counting on this Housekeeping Act as such to be a very important law, a very important link in the overall regional development policy. So not only are we going to complete all of these existing demands that mainly arise as a consequence of the war, but we want to actually create one long-term basis for housing issues for less developed areas and other areas with specific difficulties, such as demographically threatened areas where we just believe that models, existing housing models or new housing models can be a very important lever for promoting the development and stopping the depopulation of these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92939	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we'd end up with today. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. by including a new agenda point in our schedule. I thank you all. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92940	We are going to, decide on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas of Special State Care, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 750. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the proposed Deputy Minister of Regional Development and the Jaksu Puljiza to show the amendment number one to Articles 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92941	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-25-0.u92942	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. What's the score? I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, no abstentions, 31 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on areas of special state concern in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, first of all, on the basis of Article 226 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposed the addition of the agenda to one point. This is the proposal for a declaration in connection with the decision of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the temporary release of indictees Vojislav Seselj on the loose. The promoter is representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. Do any of the MPs have objections to including this point in the agenda? I find there are no objections. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, the agenda is complemented by this. If we could agree to read the declaration, because it is the fruit of harmonisation in the Croatian Parliament of all the clubs of the representatives. We could vote her right now. This would not only save time, but would achieve the objective of the declaration because it would be immediately announced and could arrive at the European Parliament starting tomorrow. If we can make a deal like that, then we'd be reading the Declaration right away. If we don't, then at the end of the day, when we're done with two points that are on the agenda, we'll open a debate on the Declaration. And it is envisaged, an agreement was reached among the promoters who agreed that only representatives of clubs speak about the Declaration because it is logical because the Declaration was created by representatives of clubs in the Croatian Parliament. I suggest the variant of reading the Declaration, saying right away, and doing the work in spirit as we started working on the Declaration. If there are no objections, can we? Yes, there is. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
