ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95477	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia established Croatia's obligation to join the Agreement on the European Economic Area. The European Economic Area Agreement was concluded in Portugal in '92. and entered into force on 1 January '94. The current parties to this Agreement are all EU Member States and the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Iceland and the Principality of Liechtenstein as members of the EFTA States. The Swiss Confederation has a special status. In September 2012, the Republic of Croatia submitted a request for the accession of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and the decision of the EU Council of September 2012 gave power to the European Commission. This is the procedure laid down for the conduct of negotiations on behalf of the EU and its Member States with the EFTA States and regarding the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Croatia's accession negotiations officially started in March 2013. 4 rounds of negotiations were held between March and December 2013 during which the text of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in this European Economic Area was agreed. The agreement was initialled in December 2013. It was signed on 11 April 2014 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 11 June 2014. This agreement is temporary, and this is particularly important for us, because since then we have been able to run with projects on the funds involved in this agreement and which these non-EU countries provide for EU member states since they are de facto participating in the European common market. Therefore, it shall apply provisionally from 12 April 2014. The agreement is an international contract. It is therefore concluded between the EU, EU Member States, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Amendments at the level of the whole agreement have also been initiated, and any amendments initiated concern the de facto inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in this Agreement between the three countries and the EU Member States and the modification of the expressions in order to include Croatia in that list of the Member States which are parties to this Agreement. The government proposes the adoption of this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of an Emergency Procedure Agreement by uniting first and second readings, since it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to complete the formal confirmation procedure of this Agreement as soon as possible so that not only does it formally take effect but also all the provisions relating to the implementation of those projects proposed here by the three countries which are member states of economic space, and not EU members, so that these projects can be started and implemented in Croatia. The 2009-2014 financial mechanism that regulates relations between these three countries and the Member States in this particular case Croatia includes a net of 8 million euros. From this financial mechanism, for the purpose of achieving the priorities selected to finance the almost 9m euros for the period 2009-2014 focus on NGOs programmes, local and regional social inclusion initiatives, reduction of inequalities. In particular, from the Norwegian Fund, a project to rebuild the Court of Justice in Karlovac and an educational project of judicial cooperation with the Council of Europe, schools in Vukovar, the NAVIS Centre in Sibenik and a part of the funds intended to finance a social trialogue, so to speak between the government, employers and social partners, so to speak. These are all projects which, when these funds are defined, which Member States of the European Economic Area and not EU member states are joining with one new country in this type of agreement or agreement relationship are specific not only amounts but also projects that will be financed from these amounts. So this is in that form negotiated. And what is before you today is actually confirming this Agreement on the accession of Croatia to the European Economic Area with all the condenses that I have described here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95478	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95479	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Pusic. I've been thinking about whether we should even discuss this proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, but I don't understand some things, so I came here publicly asking, probably not understanding others. And before that, nothing is disputed in the very Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, but the question of why the Croatian Parliament confirms the agreement means by law at the end of the year, meaning at the very end of the year, when the agreement was initialled almost a year ago, slightly less, when the agreement was actually applied and what was the purpose at all. Is it the purpose of our parliamentary representatives to raise our hands for what is already obvious? No one certainly has any opposition to what the Deputy Prime Minister has said, meaning for those funds that are being made by accessing the European Economic Area by means of non-EU non-EU members, members of the EFTA that have been created as a counterweight to the European Economic Community, but is simply a matter of the function of the Parliament. If this is a European practice that ultimately confirms an agreement which is already in practice and that agreement that has been initialled in the spring, an agreement which has long been negotiated, which Mr Plenkovic also asked by reading and preparing for this debate in the European Parliament, which is with the agreement, in which it is, but he asked the same question a year and a few days ago. The issue is open, without any ill-intention, I hope that the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister will not understand it, whether it is European practice and for which reason I repeat again at the end of 2014 when this agreement refers to the period from 2009 to 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95480	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the Independent Representatives Club, too, and the respected representative Grubisic and Cain. In the name of the club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95481	The Honorable President, Madam Minister, of course, the honourable gentlemen of the MPs that this contract, the pardoned agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, should be accepted, should be ratified in one word. It was interesting, however, that a Sunday interview by the Croatian ambassador to Brussels said that the real effects of Croatia's entry into the EU can be expected, or rather we can see, only there in 2023/2024. A year. I even dare say that more than once, that's what I said about this parliamentary speaker that no country in the first year of EU entry, and I stress that I am not a Eurosceptic, has suffered a greater blow to the national economy than the Republic of Croatia. I'm sure that the gross social product in this country would grow, not permanently. Someone will say it's strange, that it doesn't fit the truth, but I don't think I'm far from the truth, from the same. We pay 4 billion kuna in Brussels annually. Use very, very small or better said in the first year there was no at all. From 1.6.2013 to 1.6.2014, we paid 537m euros and withdrew 575m euros plus 38m euros. However, what is the most controversial priorities for us determines Brussels rather than ourselves. On 31.12.2013, a total of 1 billion 254.6m euros were allocated, and of that money we withdrew 418m euros for IPA 1, for nuclear security and membership fees, means that they kept the money to themselves, 160.7m euros, for IPA 2 over the border cooperation 10.8m euros, for transport 58.9m euros, for environmental protection we withdrew 59.2m euros, for regional competitiveness 38.6m euros, for the development of human potential 44.7m euros, for rural development of 44.8m euros. And what's he saying? That in some ways the EU pre-finances itself with our means, rather than financing us. We clearly didn't have a choice. It will be interesting now to see what this 315 billion-euro Junceker fund is going to win. The fact is and it is commendable that the Republic of Croatia has run 68 projects, a total of 19.2 billion euros. These are the meanings of these projects from LNG, the Adriatic-Ionian gas pipeline, the Kosinj Hydropower plant, the Plomin 3 Termoelectric Power Plant, I read that the most expensive electricity is from the Termo Power Plant Plomin, i.e. the coal power plant, and the Split airport is also running and I'm not counting any further. Otherwise, a total of 28 EU countries ran a billion and 300m euros for the 325m euros mentioned. France is seeking, asking for as much as 145 billion euros, Germany 89 billion euros, Italy 82m euros and not counting further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95482	Comrade Cain, may I ask you a question? Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95483	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95484	Have you read the law and listened to the first Deputy Prime Minister on the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95485	I listened, I listened to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95486	No, not if it is just you tell me, I am one and the other is enough for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95487	I did read each other. Yeah, well, I guess you didn't doubt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95488	Okay. Well, I did doubt that's why I said so. Because what you're saying, I had to doubt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95489	You think? Now you've got me distracted. But let's go now like you would say about these articles. So first, let's say Article 2 and that's the same thing, and this agreement so that someone doesn't think it's not going to cost the Republic of Croatia, although here in the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law, it says that there is no need to provide additional funds, but it should be mentioned. Here is Article 2 of the additional financial contribution of EUR 5 million for the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 July 2013 to 30 April 2014. Those funds shall be made available for reservation in one tranche from the date of entry into force of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area or of the Agreement on the provisional application of that Agreement. Or on page 77, that just says Mr. President that I read this agreement very carefully, he says: "The additional financial contribution is 4.6m euros for the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 July 2013 to including 30 April 2014. These funds shall be made available for reservation in one tranche from the date of entry into force of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Council." Yeah, I'd love to be wrong, but the fact is that in this first year of EU accession, God doesn't really know how to help us, and when we speak, I dare even say that we have come back somewhere in the year before 2007. All in all, I am not talking about the average available household income, which is significantly lower than the European average, so from 972 euros to 850 euros in 2008, and in 28 European countries, the average income of the household was 2161 euros, and as we currently stand, I think it will be worse than better. All in all, it is clear that no one will be against ratification of the agreement in the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, but at all these moments and what Europe has brought us, as we stand, we need to speak openly. So, and where there are certain regional self-governments, where I see that, out of regional competitiveness, the County of Istria draws only 0.82%, from the development of human potentials of 2.74%, from cross-border cooperation almost nothing, 200 000 euros, from traffic absolutely nothing, and there is no higher priority than the arrangement of the railway from Buzet down to Pula, Luka Pula, or Bršica, we stand something better at environmental protection, in the next 3 years we will use some other projects to drain in Poreč 67.2m euros, and hopefully we will realise some other projects. All in all, in order not to owe, I read this agreement as my predecessor, but the same thing is to be acknowledged that there is no God knows what to say about the agreement itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95490	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Excuse me, colleague Caine, for doubting your hard work. Honored representative Daniel Mondekar on behalf of the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95491	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, in short, allow me perhaps for a minute to look at the related topic, I think that the issue of Croatian EU membership exceeds the issue of EU funds, far exceeds the issue of only EU funds and I think that some problems in Croatia, and that related to Europe are far beyond the economic crisis itself, that this is, that the causes are much, much deeper and wider. It will certainly need to sit down at some point and discuss the effects of membership on Croatia. Croatia has made certain commitments by entering the EU, this Assembly almost certainly should have a central place in such discussions, but looking at the experiences of other members, seeing how the EU works, looking at relations between Member States, looking at relations on the single market, competitiveness, etc., Croatia will need to say it clearly 3 to 5 years to get into certain systems and ways of working the EU, I mean here primarily on the formal system and a whole series of those informal processes that are happening in the EU. As far as the European Economic Area is concerned, this law should be really briefly said, the SDP club of course supports, as I see all clubs, the European Economic Area, which was created in '94, was created by an agreement signed by the then 12 countries of the economic community with the EFT to create a single market in which freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital would be respected. In fact, the main reason was that the EFTA countries were included in the single market without entering the EU, at that time and in the late 1980s and early 1990s it was considered that over-expansion could endanger the creation of a single market and even for some time the foundations of creating a common currency were considered. Today, 27 of the 28 EU member states are in the European Economic Area, which is why we are doing so that Croatia, as translated,... participates, so Croatia is fully participating together with 3 out of 4 EFTA countries, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, while Switzerland, as you know, has a different status and according to the information published by the European Parliament, is that Switzerland has some 120 different EU contracts, including that there is a problem of course around 4 freedom foundations, we had a referendum recently in Switzerland that shows actually this problem. The European Economic Area, in short, is intended to extend the EU's internal market to the Member States of the European Free Trade Association. These countries do not want to join the EU, or they may not have done so potentially yet. This is the European economic, in fact, space is more than the usual free trade agreement because it extends all the rights and obligations of the EU internal market to the EFTA States, with the exception of Switzerland, it embodys 4 freedoms of the internal market, free movement of goods, persons, services and capital and related policies, competition, transport, energy and economic and monetary cooperation. The agreement contains horizontal policies, strictly related to 4 freedoms, hence social policy, including health and safety protection at work, labour law and equal treatment towards men and women, consumer protection policy, environmental policy, statistics and society rights, and a series of accompanying policies such as those related to research and technological development that are not based on the EU acquis. The Agreement on the European Economic Area is not established, the agreement does not establish binding provisions in all sectors of the internal market or other policies covered by EU contracts. The binding provisions do not concern the common agricultural policy of fisheries policy, customs union, trade policy, common foreign and security policy, and the areas of justice and internal affairs and economic and monetary union. I that there is no longer a procedure for such a contract to be ratified and for why it takes some time, the special status certainly has Switzerland and possibly for MPs who may be more interested and about this topic to deal with there is also a separate approach related to the Nordic or Northern countries. Once again, I thank and repeat the SDP Club supports the adoption of this agreement. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95492	Thank you, too, for voting in favour of the proposal. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95493	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of European Affairs and Foreign Affairs, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will therefore support the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. It seems quite clear to me that all clubs will support this agreement because this agreement is essentially a ratification of what we have actually voted for when we say that we are entering the EU, when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia said that we are entering the EU, we accept not only the single market, the single market for the economy, the single market for the flow of people, services, goods, but the single market for high standards, high goals, the development of Croatia with the EU, which has always been not only the beginning of civilization, culture, progress, democracy, but also today remained independent of recessions and problems affecting the whole world, not only the EU. Increasing the single market with this agreement, increasing the possibilities of certain programmes, certain funds, harmonising primarily with the Norwegian Republic of Iceland and the Principality of Liechtenstein, is not something that lasted even though this law is as a temporary agreement in office since February or March of this year. The entry into the EU and the European Economic Area in the right sense of the word has brought progress to the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the economy and numbers, and that is what is key and what is important as a complement and proof of the true role and of the EU and the real way and the approach of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with all the criticisms that exist that the recession is. But indicators suggest that by joining the EU, we were able to achieve and raise exports. And this is when we talk about EU countries 8 months 2013 or 8 months 2014 export increases from 13.9% from 28.4 billion to 32.4 billion kuna. The EFTA countries that are most and most related at this time to this proposal of the European Economic Area Act, the increase in exports to EFTA countries 26.4% from 701 million to 886 million kuna exports in 8 months this year compared to 2013. And what many thought would not be successful is that this government will not realise and achieve the conditions and competitiveness of the Croatian economy by entering the EU in relation to CEFTA countries. We have an increase in exports to CEFTA countries in 8 months this year by 13.5% compared to 2013 with 9 billion not that we jumped, we grew to 10.3 billion kuna. And then when we talk about both recession and problems and macro-environmental growth in the EU, but in Croatia exports and industrial production, especially in EU countries and our environment has grown. And this is that indicator not only of which the EU's entry and participation in the European Economic Area, but also of how this government and economic diplomacy clearly demonstrates and realises the space of the developing economy not quickly enough because we do not want to or do not know it, but because the conditions are such that it takes time. But what is crucial is, are the indicators such that exports are growing? They did. Are the indicators such that industrial production is growing? They did. Therefore, this agreement and this law are only one part of that project, which is the exit from recession, the growth of the industrial production economy, the growth of employment on which we are obviously on a good path slower than expected but certainly and clearly from 2015 it will be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95494	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative of Plesa, Nenad Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95495	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Treaty of Accession of the EU's Republic of Croatia's commitment to access the European Economic Area, which also states in Article 128. The Agreement on a European Economic Area where the obligation of each EU member to become a party to this Agreement is explicitly prescribed. Otherwise, the European Economic Area Agreement was concluded on 2 May 1992, between 12 members of the European Union and six members of the European Free Trade Association and the EFTA. The aim is to extend EU legislation to internal market areas in the EFTA States and the Republic of Croatia submitted its request in 9 months 2012 for accession and negotiations began in 15.3.2013. The Agreement was initialled on 20.12.2013 and signed on 11.4. this year as well as the protocols accompanying this Agreement, which are the additional Protocol on the Agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the European Union on the Norwegian financing of the mechanism for the period 2009-2014 for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, the Additional Protocol on the Agreement between the European Economic Community of Iceland on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the Additional Protocol on the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Norway. The Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area has been provisionally applied since 12 April 2014, in accordance with the agreements in the form of an Exchange of Letters or the day following the date on which the last Exchange of Letters on its provisional application was completed. No amendments and additions to this Agreement are possible anymore. The provisions of the Agreement shall be binding on new parties under the same conditions as on the already existing Contracting Parties. The Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area is an international contract concluded between the Member States of the European Union, Iceland, the Principality of Lichtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia, which decides that the Republic of Croatia becomes a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. For the Republic of Croatia, the agreement is extremely important within its membership in the European Union and brings a number of customs authorisations, a single market clause, a protocol and related to financial services, technical regulations, environmental standards. The funds for the members of the European Union and the financial mechanism from 2009 to 2014 were included as we heard 8 billion and 850 thousand euros, I hope that, because this is already the end of 2014, that these funds have been spent. And let's just say an example of this agreement would be because it's paraphrasing in the end... the date on which the period applies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian Labourists will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95496	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, is next. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95497	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Madam Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues. Well, it is undoubtedly good and useful for the Republic of Croatia that, apart from being here after years of effort and negotiations just over a year ago, we have become a full member of the European Union to enter a common European economic space. At the same time, it should be said, however, that since it was later signed on April 11th 2014, so I don't see too much sense that we here in the House are discussing something already signed and it's hard to discuss this document that I have read, Mr. President, it's not that there's much to read, but it doesn't matter, it's something quite different. And that is, yes, it is useful and it is certain that this accession, as well as the European Union, opens up space even more and brings great potential to the Republic of Croatia. However, to take advantage of the potential of something as always in life, you need to be able to be quick, you need to be smart. And I have somehow not seen for the past few years since we were just before we entered the European Union, so we have entered the European Union, so here we are for a year and a half a full member that we are capable, fast and smart. Therefore, it is doubtless that Croatia has entered even though a truly large potential in the entire economic space, European, of our geostrategic position, which is individually perhaps one of the greatest potentials that Croatia has but let's say to use it, you need to build a low-level rail that you will connect to, say, Rijeka and Vukovar. Is that gonna happen? He won't. The government of the Republic of Croatia has given up the low-level railway because it will actually construct an old route. Do we have energy potential, or become an energy hub, no matter what happens to the southern course, we do. What's going on? Nothing. We've been talking about LNG for years. I won't even talk about industry, so everyone smart saves what they have first, so then they're trying to create new industries, new jobs. We, as we heard here this morning at the break when it comes to the Immunological Institute, and it's not the only company, we're not able to preserve what we have value. And the most valuable thing in the Immunological Institute is the knowledge of these people and soybeans that were not spoken of today when it comes to vaccines. Whether or not you're talking about whether or not someone's taking care of it. Why? Probably nobody cares. But it is not only Immunological, we can talk about Gredel, we can talk about Dalekvod, although the Dalekvod will probably be saved because a Croatian bank was very interested in saving the company. We can talk about Dioki has all the Croatian industrial sectors that I don't think it's clear to this government that they should be saved under extraordinary circumstances. About tourism and agricultural potential I think there is no need to talk here in the Croatian Parliament, you have all talked enough about it, we are all aware of our public before all this potential in tourism. But here are two projects that were announced, and then when I was in 2011, we launched the Brijuni Riviera or the Coopers. And today, nothing. There is now no colleague Jelusic, two weeks ago accused me of spreading false pessimism, so that I do not spread false pessimism I will only read some data from Eurostat, not even the State Statistics Institute and some available information on the Internet, let's say the World Economic Forum that we are actually standing today and where we are, above all, those members of the European Union and the wider economic space we are discussing today. So let's start with economic growth. We are the only country in the European Union other than Greece that is actually in the default would say the cracks in bankruptcy, which six years in a row is in crisis. As far as unemployment is concerned, the only one worse than us in the European Union and beyond, therefore to the European Economic Area, is Greece and Spain. We're on this particular 16%, they're at 24% about each other. When it comes to investment, it is interesting, in EUROSTAT, the only European country that has not provided data in terms of investments is Croatia. Whether it's a matter of general interest in the institutional sectors or the state, or entrepreneurs, or households. When it comes to public debt, we are here somewhere at the very top of all those who are lowly developed, and when you compare those of us who have a particularly high public debt with those with whom we are relatively at the bottom of the European Union, they have a double and more lower public debt. We boast of industrial production that will likely grow 0.9% in a year, but at the same time our neighbours, let's say, Hungarians have a growth in industrial production over 9% over the past year, Romanians 9%, Slovenians almost 4%, Slovaks 5%. The European Economic Forum has set us up, so we fell from 75th to 77th place in competitiveness. The only European Economic Area country behind us is Greece, with Greece coming to 81st place from 91st in the past year. All the other states are far ahead of us on that list. When you look further at Croatia separately, just after the analysis of the World Economic Forum, then you see that the biggest problems in Croatia are ineffectiveness of state bureaucracy and instability of politics. That's what we're all talking about. What does the prime minister have to say, the prime minister said there will be no reform in the next year, as if we had seen some reforms seriously over the past few years. As a result, economic analysts say, when you take the state guarantees within 4 years of the government's mandate, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia will grow to over 10 billion euros. At an economy of 45 billion euros, I don't think there's anything to say, any further comment is too much. So, is there any serious Croatian potential within the European economic space, yes. The result is there, the potential is there. Who's responsible for this difference? Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. And we will support the agreement of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95498	Thank you, too. We have reports of replicas. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95499	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, of course, I'm glad you support this agreement, but your debate was in general a criticism of the government and economic policy, so I'm going to repeat once again that industrial production and exports are growing enormously this year, 7% to 13%, both industrial production and exports. I remind you that you know how to criticize, solve anything, you haven't solved it. And why didn't you solve it? And you don't ask who left us all this together to solve it just like that. When we talk about state guarantees, about the growth of public debt, so let's be honest, let's be honest and let's be honest and real, public debt existed in 2009 and 2010, but certain methodologies changed, and then what existed as a debt, what is now entering as a public debt, as a Croatian highway, was then not registered as a public debt. So nothing in many matters has changed, but it has changed what you say about energy. So Croatia becomes energy independent, Croatia is part of Transadriatic pipe or pipeline, Croatia is part of the European LNG project. This is a European project, not just a Croatian project. Croatia is investigating hydrocarbons, Croatia is now trying to return what was donated by the HDZ government, which is INA. The Croatian Government has recorded complete assets, the Croatian Government has started competitions and bathers and all other valuable tourist assets, and until now when you were in power it was not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95500	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95501	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, so I'm really trying to be well-intentioned, not to say anything more, but let's start by holding numbers, statistics, concrete facts first. That's one thing. And secondly, I think that our citizens after 3 years of the term of office of any government and these absolutely don't care what it was and what could have been 5 years ago, they want to know what it is today, what it is today, what it will be tomorrow and what will be the day after tomorrow. So what we've seen for the past three years, I won't say it again, but I'll give you a few answers. So first, when we talk about the famous statistics, then it is up to you to calculate this last export that was calculated in the Republic of Croatia which is great to grow exports, but does not grow at that rate unfortunately. We'd all like that to be the case. The methodology you were talking about when you were talking about public debt has changed. So don't once say the methodology has been changed, the second time hasn't changed. So it's just not like that. We'd all like to grow really 13% of exports but it's not like that, and it's hard to increase exports 13% in case you have industrial production that grows 1%. So I guess that's how much you know. About energy, I hear they're going to be discussing Omble again. Ombla started the project before the government's mandate, so it was suspended, so the interest was paid, so what happens now? So after a million euros of paid cost by HEP, now again, of course, Ombla should be launched. The tide lasts for three years. So what projects are we talking about? At this rate, for as long as it takes, it would take decades for this government to create something and do something in this country. Well, we don't have that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95502	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Đuro Popiè, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95503	Thank you very much. Dear Domagoj, it is good that you mentioned in your presentation and actual real data that actually depicts a sad picture of the Croatian economy today after 3 years of the rule of this coalition. Because there's really nothing else to talk about. What happened? Why is such a situation and realistically showing people what it is, and of course everything with the goal of changing the situation dramatically. And in your answer, you said in your reply why unfortunately this fact of this famous export growth is not true. That's the export in nothing I'd say, so there's unfortunately nothing spectacular about the growth of industrial production of 1%. We have nothing to export to make export real 13%. However, what is even more tragic and more fundamentally, even though counterpart Mondekar said that it is not in any way the most important subject. It's funds, European funds. So the whole point between this unique economic space and all that Europe does is to manage these common money and the ability to absorb funds in quality and smart. Well, here we are, in fact, in the most catastrophic state. At the end of 2014, the competition for structural funds is gone, we are denied programmes, we have no regulations and we have no information when we will finally be able to start applying to competitions that should be absorbed from over 10 billion euros from 2014 to 2020 into the Croatian economy. It's not there. That's not in the announcements when it's actually going to happen, and that just means that Thank you. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95504	Replica reply, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95505	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you're right. I didn't, I didn't mention European funds on purpose. We talk about it all the time. However, what is crucial. I think that we should finally all in this assembly, for starters, maybe it would be worth something and the Croatian government really should face reality. I'm getting harder and harder to talk with the heat, and I'm more and more sad as the most normal citizen of this country who's been trying to do something for himself for 25 years. So, like many others in Croatia, whatever, it doesn't matter. So in these three years, with all the potential that it is absolutely represents EU accession, and today we are discussing entering economic space. It just doesn't happen. Comrade Gjurkovic, you forgot three years ago the words of Prime Minister Milanovic "Hic Rhodus, hit the salt!" I'll probably do it a hundred more times, that's what was said. So let's stick with that one! No one happier than all of us here in the assembly and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that this government is successful, capable and that we are competing here with ideas and that we are fighting in another way, not that we are rolling here with data that are terrible and can't be scarier.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95506	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the HDSSB's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95507	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Foreign Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that in the last two, three discussions we have gone a little bit from the topic of foreign policy to the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, which we all know is what it is and we all see and we all feel the situation. Here, colleagues mentioned all the projects, the facilities, the companies and all the stuff that gets stuck and unfortunately doesn't go. But what we have here today is the subject of this law, and in fact an international treaty, the international agreement is, by its weight, stronger than any law. This material states that the law must be confirmed by Parliament’s decision, or the Croatian Parliament, as stated on page 6. Therefore, the Agreement shall apply from 12 April 2014 on a provisional basis, i.e. from the date following the date on which the last Exchange of Letters on the provisional application of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and the provisional application of the Additional Protocol with the Agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the EU on the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009/2014. So it ends. It is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible to complete the formal confirmation procedure which we are actually doing right now by giving consent to this law, by raising hands or by pressing green, we are actually confirming this Agreement which is not at all controversial for any of the clubs that spoke here. What we were looking for in, it seems to me two weeks ago in a parliamentary debate, one fierce tone is that we are also discussing our foreign policy in total. Therefore, it is not the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Economic Area, but rather the overall foreign policy that interests our citizens, but also our representatives. The European Economic Area, an agreement with Liechtenstein, therefore the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and Iceland which are members of the EFTA States or as the European Free Trade Union can be said in the translation is something signed by all EU countries, and so is Croatia's new arrival from 1 July of last year. In the ministry, while we are already talking about the ministry and its activities, the Foreign Ministry, we know that some of us did not know exactly, perhaps eight months ago, talk about the function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in economic diplomacy, which should bring both certain results and on the economic plan of the Republic of Croatia. Well, then, this debate of HDZ colleagues also makes some sense, in terms of improving, above all, attracting investment in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that somewhere I have read, perhaps the minister will confirm or deny that about 200 people, of course, are party employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in terms of action in economic diplomacy, so newly employed in the economic diplomacy of the Republic of Croatia. We would like, among other things, to discuss foreign policy some two weeks ago, to hear and learn the results and results of this economic diplomacy, especially if they are positive, so affirmative, that we welcome these successes of our economic diplomacy. Unfortunately, here I think we still don't have that kind of report. We hope it will be soon. Ms. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister spoke of projects the Kingdom of Norway has supported in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that the money of the Kingdom of Norway, so financial aid, is being given to the building of the Palace of Justice or the County Court in the city of Karlovac, is that right, if I remember correctly? And it still seems to me like kindergarten some, even though they say a gifted horse doesn't look at his teeth, even though someone here said it's tiny like this literally, right, but I say to a gifted horse he doesn't look at his teeth. But what I have already mentioned in the palace of justice and kindergarten is then very interesting walking on foot to Vukovar Hospital, on the street of the city of Vukovar in Zagreb. We have the Ministry of Justice, a real palace, literally a palace that says nice Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice. And right on the left, so 5 meters from the ministry we have a child's kindergarten. Well, perhaps it would be good for our diplomacy to be economical when we already have such diplomacy to restore and kindergartens and even the palaces of justice to think a little bit about investing in money from either the Kingdom of Norway, the money that is welcome to the Republic of Croatia, every crown of Norway, or any currency, that this kindergarten next to the Palace of Justice, the pardon of the Ministry of Justice, is being restored. You can look at it, I recorded it, but unfortunately I can't show you now on your cell phone what the difference between a kindergarten in Zagreb and the Ministry of Justice, next to each other on the same street, so. So, the minister has decidedly said that in these agreements between the Kingdom of Norway, and that is important that there are exact amounts and the purpose of the funds which the Kingdom of Norway has otherwise donated and has in the agreement since before, until Croatia was not yet a member of the EU, that these agreements and projects are completed, which is to be welcomed in any case. The HDSSB club as well as others in view of the situation in which we are and that this law is therefore affirmative in terms of Croatia's EU membership and agreement with the EFTA countries which are therefore within the same economic circle in Europe will be for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95508	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95509	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you said your colleague Grubisic that we had turned to economic issues. Well, we've strayed for the simple reason that we're too often in the Croatian Parliament and the wider in Croatian society, we're dealing with the form, not the essence. And I suppose the essence of this agreement is progress, the improvement of Croatia's economy and Croatian citizens, that should be the essence. And to do that, you have to be faster, more capable and smarter than others. If you're dumber, slower and less capable, then you'll be behind others and that's what's happening to us. And so we finally have to accept reality, and our reality is both economic and social. When you accept reality, then you can finally start to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95510	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95511	Thank you very much. So we know from the Olympic principles Altius, citius, fortius about it, therefore we do not need to specifically quote it as an economic situation. But I'm saying only the subject is foreign policy and the laws are about foreign policy issues, right? And as for the economy and the situation in the economy and the situation in general in, therefore, the financial and the population and the citizens and the economic operators here we agree both you and I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95512	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Respect Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95513	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, everyone who participated. Several comments, or answers to your comments and comments. Several participants in the debate mentioned the fact that only now is ratification being debated because of course it is ratification such as regular procedure. So this procedure is in line with the ratification of international contracts of this kind. Why now? We started these negotiations after the end of the negotiations and before joining the EU, and after the end of the negotiations on EU accession, so early autumn or late summer 2012. We started them because it just came together so that the financial perspectives went until 2013, i.e. the new perspective is 2014-2020 and de facto we were in a pretty time-constraint to get to negotiate and implement this agreement before the deadline was up. Therefore, before the deadline of 2014 in which these funds could still be used from the previous phase. The whole, as I have initially said, given Croatia's membership as a new element, a new moment in the whole of Europe's economic space, the amendment of this agreement must be confirmed by the introduction of Croatia and European documents, and in the documents of the Member States, and simply at this moment this ratification process is ongoing and we ratify it now in the Croatian Parliament. When the entire ratification procedure is completed he can also formally enter into force and our goal is to take effect, of course, as soon as possible. But the reason is that it is not, that this procedure is not happening we are in Croatia. It was said here that Croatian EU membership was a blow to the national economy. I think it's, as you might say, a little excessive, even for such pre-election needs that it's a little excessive. As much as we look at statistics and whatever methodology we use, the difference may be in numbers, but exports are growing, especially in the countries of Europe's economic space. Yeah, just for the public's sake, 'cause, of course, in the Parliament, everybody knows that I can explain exactly what it's about. So it's a free trade space. Areas where our producers do not pay customs duties, do not pay fees that those who are not part of that economic space pay when they export, or when they sell on that market. Therefore, it is logical that exports have also increased because conditions are more favourable and industrial production has increased. You can say that she was in a catastrophic bad state so that's why she grew up, it's also possible. Much of the industry was destroyed in the '90s and after that. But the fact is that industrial production has grown, energy, for example. one of the branches where it is explicitly spoken by our American partners very publicly, that by 2012, Croatia did not exist on the European energy map. ... for energy, energy diplomacy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It didn't exist on Europe's energy map let alone the world. In the short few weeks and Vice-President Biden and Foreign Minister Kerry in the US-EU talks, and at the conference in Istanbul Joe Biden, Croatia is a strategic point and is developing at a strategic point in Europe's security. It's a fact that you don't even need to be in Croatia to see, so you can see all the way from America what you'd say, that fact. And that fact stems from the other three facts at the very least which, some have not even been talked about, some have been talked about, but the fear was nothing, and now it is. So, one LNG that's been discussed a lot now is, among other things, that it's entered the list of strategic energy projects, priority EU energy projects. And in the fact that the funds for the final feasibility study were obtained and that it was run as a project for the Junceker 300 billion euros in the new investment swing of Europe. The second project is a Trans-Adriatic gas pipeline with a detachment towards Croatia, so from Albania to Croatia, the azer gas in Europe is a project that did not exist, where Croatia has just contributed to its diplomacy and to opting for this direction of the Trans-Adriatic pipeline and not the upper route through... She has also contributed now and very actively to the fact that once a decision has been made to go this way towards Albania, then across Italy, that a leg is withdrawn along our part of the Adriatic coast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the third is the exploration and exploitation of gas in the Adriatic. So three key moments of energy independence, but of course not only Croatia, but then potentially from here to Hungary and Poland, on the other hand, Slovenia and Austria, and on the third hand potentially with these new decisions and countries of Southeast Europe. So, serious projects, serious talkers and really serious shifts. And I think that criticism, where criticism falls absolutely, but we need to be able to be together proud of our country, and of our successes, and of our role and visibility both in international relations, and in the energy policy that everyone knows is practically equal to international relations, i.e. equal foreign policy. And when something's good, let's not bury ourselves in the ground. You should criticise what's not good, but what's good, you should have space and strength to say, is, well, let's further develop it together with one normal consensus, I don't mind if something is good and smart that we do it together no matter where it comes from. And it is not in my opinion quite appropriate for Croatia to be said to be too stupid, so either it is said to me personally that I am too stupid to do some of the things that concern our foreign policy. I don't think that's what the results show, so if you ask any of the EU ministers we communicate with at least once a month or beyond, you'll see that this assessment doesn't match what these people think and I don't think it's necessary or somehow appropriate in this situation. So, I don't think we're some kind of god knows what kind of genius we are, but there are no geniuses here in my opinion, but we're not stupid, fellow Milosevic, I don't think we are. That we have results that show this and also an international reputation that shows the opinion of our colleagues who will be happy to tell you that. As for, therefore, our companies in the meantime and Gredelj and Brodogranja, in this particular case, Uljanik, but Spliti Škver, and Viaduct and Ericsson, Nikola Tesla, have all, in cooperation with our diplomacy, realised or in the process of realising some projects, there are not only difficulties and obstacles on the Croatian market, there are them everywhere. There are different kinds of protectionism, administrative barriers everywhere, and that's what we do. I happen to have a brief report here about economic diplomacy because we're preparing it for an ambassador's conference this week. But not to go into too much detail now, I have here, just to tell you that since 1 October 2013, when we started this project, support from economic diplomacy has requested something over 1300 Croatian exporters. So, exporting companies, and through our institutions and consultations and our business, we have provided over 3500 different types of services, information, contacts, partnerships with partners, etc., so that it really has the effect of these things happening in Central Asia, so in..., Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan are, of course, the result of the quality of our companies, their products, but believe me, to a large extent, the realization of this has contributed to economic diplomacy. There are no 200 new employees of economic diplomacy than the State Office for International Trade has moved to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, so the Office for Foreign Trade, however, has reduced the number of people, so that in total, no matter what we say, we have merged, or we have taken over the office, is now about 200 people less than when... we were 100 and 70 people, I think, less than when we took over the ministry. By going into retirement and by the principle of one for two, so two people leave the ministry, one new young man can be accepted based on that. I agree that it should change and fix many things, including in kindergarten, but in this case, as for Norwegians, and they were interested, and I must say in this particular case and limited resources for school in Vukovar, we thought somehow that this was more appropriate at this point. And as for the debate on foreign policy, it would be a great honor and pleasure for me, and I love to discuss foreign policy very much, if I could come to the Parliament, and with great pleasure here to discuss all aspects of foreign policy. For the time being, this has been made possible on several occasions, I can no longer remember how much, within the framework of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the European Committee. So there we discussed the concept of foreign policy, the results of foreign policy and certain segments of foreign policy, whether geographically, such as relations with the Russian Federation, whether they are thematic, such as energy, so in the Assembly, I have to say the Foreign Political Committee and the European Committee are very regular organizers, and I will be very pleased if the Parliament invites me, with great pleasure to discuss the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95514	Dear Vice President, you suggest a topic, material, we'll put it on the agenda. Welcome to the subject and the material. We're open here. With the material, of course. Thank you very much. Yeah, okay. We don't need a sufflage without a tile, and we're going to the replicas. The first replica, the Đuro Popiac, was respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95515	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you've spent a lot of time explaining what you've done in the field of energy. I'll tell you for a while, you didn't do anything. So, to say that Croatia did not exist on the energy map of Europe is actually pointless, forgive me for being rude. Did you build 2,000 kilometers of gas pipelines? Did you build any interconnections towards neighboring countries? The last one was built and opened in 2011 towards Hungary, which has just enabled Croatia to join European energy flows. Have you built any power lines or trans-stations or energy connections in the energy grid system towards neighbouring countries? You're not. The last one was made in 2011 towards Hungary and this enabled the integration of the Croatian electricity sector with the single energy sector of Europe. It was done before you. Did you maybe create any kind of power source in two years? You didn't, none. Did you happen to build one kilometer of pipeline? You're not. What has been completed long before you started, and this is the capacity storage facility in Sisak and Omis. Are you possibly responsible for oil dropping to $60, these are new oil discoveries in the Croatian Adriatic and on the continent? Please don't. All that Croatia today's heritage is the result of geopolitical position and movement on the world market and world circumstances in the area of gas energy. Please do not take, of course everything in Croatia has not started or ended with any government or with you. So at least you appealed to admit what you found.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95516	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica honoured Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95517	Thank you very much. So you can build whatever you want if you don't have anything to run through it. So one thing is that there's no corruption, another thing is that they're starting projects that weren't even dreamt about, and the third thing is that it's not my quote, so that's not my statement, that's one of the most powerful factors on the world's energy scene and energy policy, which is the United States. So I'm sorry, but they haven't noticed you before, what do we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95518	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95519	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Reverend Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, perhaps you didn't listen well first when I spoke. And the second I can testify to you here colleagues in the Parliament for the past three or four years I've never called anyone stupid in politics. In fact, I've never personally offended or humiliated anyone here, ever, ever, that's the first. Although for the past four years, there have been no moments and times and my personal situations that some have not earned it, but I don't think it's good in public space. With the full respect of our international partners without whom absolutely cannot use our geostrategic potential and our geopolitical position, but can we do anything ourselves, can this government do anything by itself? Here's what I'm asking you for is one project to tell me which is of the geostrategic significance that this government is capable of taking, I'd really like to hear it. I'll just remind you all of the LNG project, so that's what we've been talking about for years. Yeah, there was talk during HDZ. Two years ago, the highest Croatian delegation went to Qatar, since then for the last year, the Katharci newspaper read them what happens on the Croatian-Katar route on the LNG issue. You know who owns the country where the LNG terminal should be formed? We're all talking big words, let's go down into a very rigid reality, land owner for LNG terminal is HYPO bank that owns the Austrian bank that currently sells that same HYPO bank. Who's gonna own it tomorrow? We don't know. Is anyone in our country, and I suppose that's the government's responsibility and the rest of the ministry doing something to talk about this land? No, you still believe me from many countries east and west today you can take that land for a third of the price of what's estimated, only no one is unfortunately dealing with it. And speaking of nonsense, let me see this is not personal, so I do not see any project that Croatia is able to put on the map of the world such as the river-Zagreb railway put Rijeka on the map of the world as a new point of entry of goods into the EU and exports to central Europe and give up the lowline, that it is stupid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95520	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected by First Vice-President and Prime Minister Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95521	Thank you very much. So I don't understand what it means that Croatia is able to do one project itself, is Croatia able to become a key factor in the energy security of this part of Europe itself? It is not, no, it needs co-workers, it needs partners, it needs countries with which to cooperate both in the region and outside the region, of course it is. Did Qatar or any other country put a monopoly on any of our energy projects? No, we can co-operate with a whole range of countries and we will cooperate and cooperate with a whole series of countries. And as far as land is concerned, contrary to what you think, so the government is working on it and solving the problem including the possibility of facilitating the solution through the Strategic Investments Act, and LNG is a strategic investment in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95522	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95523	Dear Vice President and Minister. You said if we invited you to the Parliament that you would be very happy to respond, we invited you, the entire opposition, all the clubs of the opposition asked the President of the Parliament to be put on the agenda, even I think HDZ left a written trail on it. So we're looking, but the government is deaf to it. So, here we call you, so you didn't get what's even written... It means that you do not treat the opposition as part of the Parliament, an important part of the assembly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want it to be members of the government, but the government doesn't want to question foreign policy, the government is pleased. And you said yourself that you're satisfied about it there won't be any debates about foreign policy so it's just for the clean. Secondly, you talked about whether it was a blow, whether Croatia's entry into the European Union is a blow to the economy. Here I fully agree with you, the impact on the economy is a Croatian constant. The impact on the economy began in the '90s when it began to rob itself during the transformation, that was when everything that was worth destroying began to be destroyed. The rest are just the most tough ones, what we failed, anyway, the impact on the economy is still happening today we were just talking today morning into a small segment concerning science, which is the Immunological Institute. So what works fantasticly is what we want to suppress. The other thing is, the free market, you mentioned earlier on about the free market that we have become part of the European Union's free market. When it comes to small states without large corporations and without a strong banking system that we don't have, we're just beating each other we have strong banks. The free market is a blow to small ones, it is a blow to small but not only to Croatia but also to all other countries. We are prey like prey and Greece, such as the prey of many other countries of large corporations but it is certainly a topic for a longer, more complex debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95524	Thank you very much. The first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Vesna Pusic were respected in response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95525	Thank you, Mr. President. So I don't even know if you think that the debate on committees that otherwise the note was open to all MPs, that the debate on committees of parliaments is not a debate in the Parliament. This debate is constantly happening. We are constantly discussing, I am here and at least once every two months on the Committees of Foreign and European and we are discussing Croatian foreign policy and various foreign and European topics. And as far as I know from my three mandates, any parliamentary representative can also participate if he is interested in foreign policy on that. And all the parliamentary majority decides for the government is the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95526	Please work again now to the public if the Government that written report Parliament will discuss a written report on foreign policy. And this is also a debate on foreign policy, this is also a debate on foreign policy only segmentary. We're going to a new replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95527	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, it is not good macroeconomic indicators to use ad hoc one way or another. As for the growth of Croatian exports, therefore all economic analysts know it's about transport and not about exports. And some small exports have changed due to the methodology. Sometimes small exports didn't count, and that's a fact. Can't a country that has a drop in employment, which has a drop in industrial production, what's exporting it? What was produced by exporting? And as for energy, see, in order for Croatia to be able to directly obtain gas from a European practical direction, there must be an interconnection from Russia because it could not be done without it. That, until there was no connection with the Hungarian border, was simply not, that's a fact. Another thing, in order for Croatia to be able to use its gas from the northern Adriatic, a Fažana-Lučko highway must be built and that the Trans-Adriatic pipeline was not mentioned because I think you can say something like that. So the diameter of the master pipeline to Split changed and increased precisely because of tomorrow being part of the Trans-Adriatic pipeline. That's what the paperwork says. And as for energy policy, that's what Croatian citizens felt, 35% more expensive gas, 25% more expensive electricity, and I don't want to talk about Syria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95528	Reply to the replica of Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95529	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So as far as the Trans-Adriatic gas pipeline is concerned, that decision is... brought about that direction, that it would go that way and not to Bukov's West was passed in 6 months 2013. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, look around and you'll see... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95530	Comrade Shuker, you had a replica, listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95531	... No, no, no, the decision to go to the Trans-Adriatic pipeline and not Bukov West was made by the consortium in 6 months 2013. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Shucker, when you do that and when you talk about it, you should know. And for this reason, we called all foreign ministers on the path of the Trans-Adriatic pipeline in Dubrovnik, together with representatives... So the consortium that eventually made that decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, and even to this day, it is a question of how we are working, and we will have to make a great deal of effort to get from an Albanian point where the gas is crossing over to Italy to pull it back on our side of the Adriatic. I'm optimistic and I mean, so the coast of the Adriatic, and I think we're gonna make it, but it's far from done. And I repeat, the decision on direction was made in the 6th month of 2013. So there's no talking about knowing it then and having your own infrastructure to use your own resources is one thing, and being a point on Europe's energy map and Europe's security card is something else. That's what our job is about, but you don't have to be mad at it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95532	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95533	Well, it would be good for you to look forward to such good news and that it is more important to you than time. So maybe you prefer to hear the truth than time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95534	Vice President, Madam Vice President, stick to the time. Comrade Shuker, you don't have to if you don't agree to the answer, you don't have to yell out of the bench. ... Branko Bacic, replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95535	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honored Deputy Prime Minister. The debate on energy policy in the context of Croatia's accession to the economic space of Europe involves, among other things, respecting the norms of this economic space, even when it is not in our favor, especially when the regulation that defines this area is in our favor. You mentioned one of the three projects that will contribute to Croatian energy efficiency, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. Well, on this very project, we showed the sloppyness or ignorance of the Croatian government. In fact, it has been approached by researching and calling competitions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons without a strategic environmental impact assessment. By half January, Croatia's government must issue permits to companies that have shown their interest in hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. Meanwhile, a strategic environmental impact assessment was commissioned, which will be completed only in March. This strategic assessment will determine whether research and exploitation can be accessed in some fields. What can happen is that one of the fields that six world companies have shown their interest can be subsequently determined that they will not be able to explore, let alone exploit, hydrocarbons. Thus, the project or government does not know or have any other reasons that are not available to us, which the government has bypassed in this process of research and exploitation. Therefore, when we talk about this procedure that is very important for the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, the Government has shown that it must not be done because it can indeed be done to the Croatian Government and the Republic of Croatia if, after the research and exploitation permits are issued in January, we must give up this strategic assessment because it will tell us not to do so in this field.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95536	Thank you. Replica response, Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95537	It will all be over in time and should not plant a leg on Croatia at every turn. This is an important project for Croatia, it will go, will give us energy security, will give us political security and will give us a role in both Europe and the region. Don't plant your leg. There will be problems and various other countries will appear here. Everything will be here in time, as should Croatia will go forward on this point, whatever is said. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95538	Can we move on? Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95539	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have said that on boards you present Croatia's views in terms of foreign policy, but committees do not reach the public, or matter from the board does not reach the public. Have you seen anywhere in the media that what was on the board has been transmitted to the public? Here's the public interested in whether we're an anti-ISIL country or a member of the Caliphate. So the Caliphate included us, it is the most northwestern land of Caliphate, Croatia. That's a map of potassium. But at the same time, we're a member of the anti-ISIL. Well, clearly, the people should know what they live in, where they live, in the Caliphate or not in the Caliphate. But what we're interested in, and that's what you say that Croatia was a black hole before your government an energy black hole. There is no Croatia, there is no light or electricity, we have nothing, we live as in... the Federation, there in that republic of the Federal. So it's not true that it is. And besides, you know exactly who he is and when and how much he's sold the Caliphate sources in Syria oil, so this government has sold for what it's worth. In Syria, INA's oil sources. Furthermore, when you talk about the Trans-Adriatic pipeline, it's just an idea. What do you think you're doing? In a year, your government will no longer be here in Croatia, therefore in power, but we have released the idea of a Trans-Adriatic pipeline. That's how you let go of the idea in other energy things we didn't realize. The first metre, cubic metres of gas, if it is in the Adriatic Sea, will be exploited after 5 to 6 years of research. No cubic meter of gas was excavated during this government, no power-generating facility was built, not one meter of gas pipeline, as one of the colleagues said. What are you talking about that something's been accomplished now? What are the energy achievements in Croatia during your government?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95540	Thank you very much. Replica response, Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95541	So I must inform you that Croatia is not responsible for the war in Syria, we had nothing to do with it. Thus, this situation, mentioned earlier, was somewhat affected by the war in Syria. As for the idea, of course whatever government comes after the election and the next and the ones behind it. Some projects that are rational and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, if not completely irrational, will continue to work. On TAP at this time, therefore, the Trans-Adriatic pipeline Croatia cannot operate except diplomatically and except for the preparing part that will be called or called IAP, which is the Adriatic-Ionian part that connects us to which PLINACRO is working at the moment. So, the Sokar firm that works on it in Azerbaijan, it's an azer gas, and it has a special department to co-operate with PLINACRO on the development of this part of Albania and towards us. But we cannot work on a pipeline between Azerbaijan, Turkey, Greece, Albania and Italy. It is not really in our jurisdiction, but of course we can and have contributed to the decision to choose that direction, not the direction that would bypass this part of southern Europe. That's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95542	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95543	Final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 735. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 117 votes in favour, 1 abstention was passed by the Law confirming the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95544	Now we're going to have a united debate on the next three points. It is - The final proposal for a law confirming the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 760; - Proposal for a Law confirming the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Great Britain, of the other part, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 761; - Proposal for a Law confirming the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 762; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy, and their reports were received at the session. Introducing the first Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Ms Vesna Pusic will explain the bill's proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95545	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So this is ratification and I think that Croatia is the 11th member state on the agenda of ratification of the Association Agreement. It is three EU Association Agreements, on the one hand, and the EU and Georgia, i.e. the EU and Ukraine. It's a new form of de facto relationship or definition of relationship. This Association Agreement shall contain, at the same time, those provisions relating to the launch of the free trade process, i.e. the free trade agreement between the EU and the Member States. In the case of Ukraine, the provisions relating to free trade are suspended in force until 1 January 2016. It is the first contracts of that kind based on a kind of political integration between the European Union and the Eastern Partnership countries. It is also a relatively new concept, as you know in relations between Europe and Eastern, neighbourhood, Eastern partnership. The accession is aimed at supporting reforms, primarily in the judiciary and public administration, the economy, good governance and sectoral co-operation in approximately 28 areas. So a lot of areas. The emphasis is also on respecting common values such as human rights, democracy, fundamental freedom, and the free market. And here, if I can get a small fuss note to join, that is, going out to the free European market did not particularly hurt small companies. In reverse and Croatian small companies have prospered, and there is also a special programme of assistance for small and medium-sized enterprises. Increased cooperation in the area of foreign and security policy and the energy policy that has already been discussed here has been envisaged. The accession is therefore aimed at strengthening cooperation in the field of justice, freedom and security, and at strengthening the role of rights and respect for fundamental freedoms. Parts relating to justice of freedom and security also contain provisions on mobility, i.e. on visa liberalisation. And, for example, as of April 28th this year, citizens of Rohit travel without visas across the EU. Georgia has entered the second phase of the visa liberalisation action plan. And if there hadn't been a crisis and conflict in Ukraine, the process would have probably already been over. In the case of Ukraine, it is considered that this could end by next summer. These agreements will allow better conditions for the expansion and deepening of economic and trade relations between EU countries and these three countries. The application of the agreement requires the modernisation of the entire state structure and Georgia and Georgia and Ukraine and, to a large extent, without a perspective, the formal perspective of membership, the adaptation to the acquis of the EU. In some cases and such things as phytosanitary standards in food processing, etc., which enables free export to the European market. The implementation of reforms in all these areas will be achieved through co-operation between the EU and partner countries. And that is why the agreements ahead of you also provide for the establishment of an institutional framework for accession, which includes the establishment of councils and committees for accession and subcommittees. The first EU-Georgia Association Council meeting was held on 17 November this year. The same meeting between the EU Association Council and Lucius was postponed on application because, 10 days ago, Moldova had parliamentary elections and in those elections, and I must say fortunately, the pro-European current, so that the current that was in favour of European reforms for this agreement for the accession process through the EU-Agreement Agreement, and thus the project remains on the agenda but still needs to be set a new date for the Council's maintenance. The EU-Ukraine Association Council is also scheduled for 15 December. The provisional application of these agreements shall take place from 1 September 2014 to Georgia and Moldova because the agreements have been signed, therefore initialled for Georgia and Moldova between the EU and Georgia and on the sidelines of the Wilnius summit last year, however, as you remember at that time, Ukraine President Janukovic refused to sign the agreement so that the provisional application of the political part of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement began on 1 November 2014, and the application of that trade section as I said was delayed until 1 January 2016. We expect that by confirming these agreements, progress will be made in intensifying all types of relations, primarily between the EU countries and these three countries. Both between these three countries and the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia, with all three countries in some aspects of their adaptation to European standards, is cooperating through its Centre of Excellence, which we have specifically established to transfer our experience in adapting to European standards to some countries that do the same for any reason. I suggest that all three agreements here be confirmed and ratified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95546	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Bozinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95547	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Here I would say that, and also on the trail of those previous discussions, this is a good topic to discuss foreign policy in the assembly. Of course, not questioning the fact that these are important agreements, that Croatia signed them and that there is no reason why the Croatian Parliament should not ratify them, however. These agreements, however much they act as some kind of bureaucratic mechanism, have a very important content, but I would also say a political message. First of all, in this part of the content, this has already been the case in the opening letter, it is the creation of a single framework for political dialogue between the EU and these countries, for reforms, for the rule of law, for the judiciary, for anti-corruption, for conflict resolution, for agriculture, for financial services. So, a whole series of areas, I think there's 28 of them somewhere. They also have a new mechanism called a deep and comprehensive free trade zone in which these countries will learn, which in practice means that those companies from these three countries, those companies, those business entities that build European standards will open up a European market, a market of 500 million people and vice versa. All those business circles, investors who want to trade or invest in this part of the world, will be able, and that means business entities from Croatia. What these agreements do, he would say specifically to political documents, is exactly the path that has occurred to them, because that path has revealed some dilemmas, some doubts, and some conflicts that exist in today's Europe. First of all, this chronology was already mentioned here in part, so it was expected that this would be an agreement that would be signed in December 2013 in Vilnius, it did not occur when we talk about Ukraine because the then and former president of Ukraine refused to do so, but he did not just refuse, he refused to put pressure on a neighbouring country that opposed it. The rest would already be said in recent history. Following this, events in Majdan followed, the invasion and annexion of Crimea by the Russian Federation, and then the EU practically comes from the knowledge of the scales of the problems and the dangers that are happening and that threatens Europe, and is signing its kind of political agreement in April or March 2014. Why does it matter? Because this is the way and the problems that led to the signing of this agreement, that is, the whole context has not disappeared today. So, these tensions exist today, these obstacles that were mentioned the other day by the Chancellors of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mrs Merkel, above all by Russia, exist today. Therefore, the implementation of these agreements will be both complicated and long-term. However, we must be aware that this is about two concepts, a conflict of concepts, an EU concept that is shaped in the policy of the Eastern Partnership and the concept that still sees Europe as a sphere of one's interests. The first concept is a concept based on democratic values, in the values of the rule of law, human rights. It is a concept where the entire EU structure has grown and it is a concept to be talked about, not only but it needs to be protected and advocated on every possible occasion, even today in the debate before the Croatian Parliament. Because the opposite is the autocratic tendencies, the tendencies of some who still live decades back and who want to oppose that concept of autocraticism that cannot pass, cannot go away because it is not attractive and is not based on universal values, and is not based on the prejudice to the well-being of those countries with which the EU has signed these agreements that are now being implemented. This is important because I think that as the situation develops, regardless of what is said earlier, I am not sure that the question of the perspective of membership is an ad act, of course the EU uses in each official document something that has worked very well, and it is called so-called. Creative ambiguity. Eastern Partnership policy is not a step towards membership, and that is clear, however, it is neither an alternative to membership. And I am sure that if events take place this way that the EU will not have many reasons and motives, especially if these countries advance on their own, to build their institutions, to implement democratic and European standards, they will not have much motive to reject potential membership requirements because Europe itself by the end or by the middle of this century will have less than 5% of the world's population. So, with them too, it won't be a big gain, but simply if the EU wants to remain a player on the international stage, it will also have those ideas. And these demands have to start taking into account the trail of what the president of Ukraine of Porošenko recently said, it is Europe will be whole or will be partially whole, it is she who should give an answer to that. What makes this really important for the Republic of Croatia? Of course, we are a member of the EU, under these same standards, accepting and sharing these same values have become a member of that bloc of countries, and it is in our interest to develop democracy at the eastern borders of the EU, to develop human rights, rule of law and for political reasons, both for security reasons and of course for economic reasons. So this is not, although it could be said at first sight that the greatest content of these agreements is economical, or economic, this is both a security issue and a question of the political future of the continent on which we live, and now we are in a situation of course also advocates of the values that the EU is built on, which we share, and which are in our interest to promote and protect, wherever they have citizens' support above all, because this is about the rights of the citizens of Ukraine, the right citizens of Georgia, the right citizens, to choose with whom they wish to share their future. Do they want to see their future for themselves, for this generation, for the next generations in the EU or somewhere else? I think that their commitment is quite clear, and it is up to us and Croatia to help them because strengthening these processes in Eastern Europe means reducing the potential for some of the negative effects of this to be poured into our neighborhood, then perhaps they would understand more clearly that these processes, that everything that is happening is very connected because the same actors are involved in creating an atmosphere in Eastern Europe, but also in a region that is close to us. So, by supporting the active, and now we have a legal and legitimate framework to be very active in this, we are actually defending that these geopolitical, security and economic doubts that exist today in this part of the world are not being shed near us. Here, thank you very much and of course, this agreement should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95548	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95549	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam foreign ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Everything here is clear and everything is already said, and from the presentation of Minister Pusic, as well as the presentations of colleagues from Bozinović, otherwise appreciated and to say to the distinguished expert and parliamentary representative in connection with such topics in parliamentary debates and beyond. It is clear, in fact, that it is an EU accession agreement, so EU countries and three countries, so, East Europe, Insistance, Georgia and Ukraine, whose situation and relations, mainly at the eastern borders of Ukraine, we currently know a lot, and yet some things and even the crash of that plane... are not known enough. Here, parts went to Holland for questioning. What's a little bit of arousal to me in the title of these legislative proposals is to mention the European Atomic Energy Community of their Member States, and obviously these countries of Eastern Europe are members of the European Atomic Energy Community, and I don't know exactly why this is the way the law is defined. Although, as Mr Bozinovic has numbered himself, it is an association agreement consisting of Ukraine 7 chapters in which all and the general principles have been aligned, the objectives of enhanced political dialogue, the area of freedom, security, justice, etc., that I do not list all 7 chapters of which were always in the accession agreement, with the fact that it is clearly indicated that here, so it is not clear why there was no signing in... although this does not mean after the completion and application of this agreement that any country will automatically become a member of the EU, it says here. Because of this, I say, I do not understand the influence of the neighbouring great country to through the former president of Ukraine and to break up, or deny that agreement for which it was interesting on November 29th last year in... the goal of signing. But, well, it wasn't signed then, and now we have this bill on confirming these agreements between all three states, both Insects and Georgia and Ukraine. By the way, speaking of the European Atomic Energy Community countries, I have to say that we're getting a little bit informed that Ukraine has 15 nuclear power plants, 2 are on track, so far there's not a single one in the building, but there are 2 more in the plan. Otherwise, we know it's Russian technology and that, in relation to some, it used to be called Western technology, that the safety of such nuclear power plants is for a few, let's say, percentages are less than some others, and yet what depends on more power than in Japan is security, but there's an earthquake and a tsunami, etc., so we have an atomic nuclear incident, to say. In any case, the HDSSB club also agrees that these agreements between the EU, whose Croatia is a full member and these Eastern European countries, Rohit, Georgia, were the elections in Moldova the other day, Georgia and Ukraine signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95550	On behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95551	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, respected colleagues and colleagues. So the proposal for three laws that could be said is often seen in terms where we confirm certain agreements that are within the EU. But I have to admit on behalf of the HNS Club that this isn't something we often see, these are extremely, extremely important laws. I think that, in the opening statement of the Deputy Prime Minister and colleagues from the clubs of the past, the importance of these laws and the importance not only of us in the Croatian Parliament but also of our active policy and role of Croatia, with a policy related to Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, we help these countries, not only in the implementation of these laws, but also in that fundamentally important and humane definition of the peace of stability, the development of fundamental human rights of democracy. It is certain that, by also attaching to the first item of the agenda of today's debate in the Croatian Parliament concerning the validation of the Agreement in participation in the European Economic Area, the economy plays a particularly exceptional role in linking in the first row of states, peoples, economies to enable better and more favourable life, which should then be entrenched through human rights, through democracy, through that basic self-determination and every country and decision in which direction, in which way but the basis of the implementation of those fundamental democratic freedoms and democratic elections and the rights of citizens to express themselves. So, as the EU itself, the European Community was originally created, and this is the basis for cooperation in the economy, also here in the economy and in the 28 areas and in general in the way and in the assistance of both tomorrow and through the funds and through education to help policy, so that Croatia does not bring and confirm these agreements in this segment, but is actively involved. What is important is that Croatia is clearly active already, without us confirming the agreement but this is only one additional power and support to the government that in this segment it is included that at this moment in Ukraine, which is at the most complex situation at the moment, in Ukraine when we look at the data of the mutual trade relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Ukraine in recent years we see that our exports did not know in 2012 some 350 million kuna, that it fell to 98 because of these conditions and the situation which in Ukraine so far stepped down and that 8 months of this 2014 was somewhere on some 150 million kuna. So both this agreement and, in particular, the economic activities that essentially provide for that life, that fundamental driver and development, and the possibility that when both employment and existence are resolved, it is easier to act politically and support and help to develop both fundamental and human rights and democratisation of society in those countries. And of course, this freedom of trade, the possibility of exchange of goods, services, and here we have discussed how it was also presented in the opening part with the liberalisation of the visa regime, the possibility of travel, the arrivals from these countries ensure that the breath is politically specific to those countries and by Croatia that citizens of these countries know not only that they are not forgotten but that they have support, that we want to help them to join the EU in the long term, but in any case join free countries, countries and free trade and free communication and expressions. So on behalf of the HNS Club, we support the adoption of, of course, the proposals of these laws on the validation of the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95552	The final word of Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95553	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So since it was mentioned in the debate and thank you very much to everyone who participated. The Ukrainian agreement, which was not signed on the sidelines of the Wilnush Summit about a year ago, was signed in parts in chapters 1, 2 and 7 of March this year, and in the remaining chapters 3, 4, 5 and 6 was signed on 27 June this year, so it has a little later entry into force and, of course, as the government in Ukraine has known, so that it is clear that the Ukrainian side has signed the agreement. I agree with everyone who said this is even though it looks like some sort of technical thing, that it's a historic moment. And if there is a moment that could really be discussed not only about foreign policy but at all about the vision of international relations, which means approaching Eastern Partnership countries in this way, with a new type of relationship and visa-based freedom of movement of people and a comprehensive, profound, and what it's called, and a comprehensive free trade agreement, so economic and 28 sectors in which it cooperates. What does that mean? What is that going to produce in the next five years? That's the real basis in my opinion for a good conversation about the vision of international relations. Just to remind you, a year and a half ago, no one thought that such an agreement could be controversial in relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation. Since the fall of last year, this is a topic that has become in fact, so NATO has been a controversial topic in relations, the European Union absolutely does not. After the summer of last year, the topic of such agreements with the European Union has become, at one time, questionable or questionable. Is this kind of approach possible, whether it leads to some deepening between us as the West, deepening the crisis or conflict between us and the Russian Federation or vice versa, that's how we connect? It's an area, and it can be both. Of course, it's our opinion that there's room for it to be a way of connecting, but it requires leadership and requires one, I'd say a bolder vision of international relations. But it certainly is a historic moment whose controversies we will see in the years to come. I agree with all who have debated and with, if not too much harm, within his club Mr. Representative Bozinovic in his assessment of the importance of this moment and this agreement. I agree that he has consequences not only far-reaching but that Croatia is here if I may make it clear and loud on the right side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95554	Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95555	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister, I hope that this debate today, especially the first one with the President of the Croatian Parliament, will not harm you within the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this part, I just wanted to refer to what you said that NATO was a controversial topic, the European Union by summer this year did not Not last year. [[Last year.]] He thinks that, finally, when we clear the dust a little bit, when we move the sand a little bit, we will see that NATO is not really the problem as such, nor the European Union as such, the problem is that they represent and why they pose a threat to some autocratic regimes. I'll try to back it up for you and the facts. The invasion of Georgia and the declaration of two provinces there and recognition by the great neighbour that these two independent states happened not only in the evening of NATO's summit in 2009 but occurred at a time when Poland first launched the idea of an Eastern partnership that would become the official policy of the European Union in 2009. And despite NATO being mentioned as that threat, the fact is that what happened in 2014 too, so this attack of anexia of Crimea is actually in consequence or that trigger for that was just the decision to sign an agreement with the European Union. These are the two concepts of values I'm talking about and I think it's very much related or inseparably. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95556	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill's proposals on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95557	The final proposal of the Law confirming the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 760. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final proposal and I'm asking you to vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 116 for and 1 abstention and nothing against the votes passed by Law P.Z. No. In 760, in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95586	We will now discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 677; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. And you received reports at the session. Introductoryly, the bill will be explained by Deputy Culture Minister Mr Berislav Šipus. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95587	I would like to thank Madam Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs and MPs. The Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods shall, above all, be harmonised here with Directive 2014/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the recovery of cultural objects illegally exported from the territory of the Member State and amending Regulation No 1024 one amendment. It is therefore further aligned with the Law on concessions, the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning. The mode of control of the transport of mobile cultural goods is also prescribed, means natural and legal persons carrying out the activity of transport to mobile cultural goods and objects, are now entered in the register run by the Ministry of Culture. Other countries in the European Union, for example Greece, France, the Netherlands, Italy, also have such a monitoring system. The period of validity of the provision, which also reduces the number of debtors of payment of the monumental rent, which is otherwise prescribed in Article 114a of the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods until 31 December 2015. Furthermore, we have a erasure of the provision which, by virtue of the confirmation of the competent authority on the implementation of the safeguard measures, can exercise the right to compensation in order to limit the right of ownership, since the certificate cannot decide on that compensation which is in accordance with the caselaw. The provisions on the award of concessions with the Law on concessions are harmonised and the time to which the concession on cultural goods is granted is extended. It was 50 years ago, and now it's 99 years old. It is arranged to establish specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods in the process of issuing a local permit, a building permit, that means compliance with the Construction Act. Specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods for the construction of simple and other buildings and works within a cultural and historical unit are also laid down, on individual cultural goods, as well as on the area of the spatial borders of cultural goods for which no building permit is required. It's also a alignment with the Construction Act. The competent authority shall be in accordance with the procedure in which the investor or contractor takes the action or procedure on cultural goods for which a building permit is required, and prior approval or confirmation of the main project, or if he takes action or procedure on a culturally good counter-building permit, prior approval or confirmed main project. The competent authority shall also be governed if the supervised person does not act in accordance with the decision of the inspector. It's a compliance with the Law on Administrative Disputes. The obligation to enter the land book and the land-book catalogue of cultural goods and land-book particles within the spatial borders of cultural goods is prescribed, i.e. It is specified in terms of the different treatment of land-booking departments, and given that some departments' land-books have entered the property of cultural goods, and some have not. Delivery and delivery of solutions on the definition of cultural goods through public publication is also specified when other forms of delivery are impossible or.... And this is about precision, meaning that the delivery and way of delivery of a solution to determine the properties of cultural goods, given the inability to deliver personal solutions to cultural goods owners within a cultural and historical unit. A provision under which the approval of the competent authority for the implementation of the safeguard measures may give rise to the right to compensation for the restriction of the right of ownership, since the certificate cannot decide on that compensation as well as on the appropriate case-law. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95588	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95589	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Deputy Deputy Deputy Minister with associate Mr Jelic of the Ministry's Legal Service. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, whose first reading we had the opportunity to discuss here in this assembly in July. Then if you remember a proposal from the Ministry of Culture set out to go through an emergency procedure in just one reading. It is good that he was then accepted by the Ministry of Culture of the Proposal to still go with this law in two readings because no amendments to the provisions have been introduced in this law, only those amendments to the provisions concerning compliance with the European Union Directive, but there have been other amendments and additions. In fact, there begins the biggest law problem that we will have the opportunity to see because after 7 or 8 amendments or additions to this law you need a guide so that you can apply it and understand it. I believe that his insight in his overall has, there are also problems in his examination of Jelic, who probably worked on all the changes and additions, of them 9. In this respect, it would be explicitly directed to draw up the consolidated text of the law as soon as possible. It is also good to welcome at the HDZ club to withdraw from the first reading of the law, to withdraw some of the provisions that went in order, for example, for the Minister of Culture to appoint all members of the Cultural Goods Council. We think it's a good thing it's been kicked out of another reading. Also, some of the other remarks that have been observed in this second law - reading have been somewhat better. We know that it is not ideal for you to have in the council a director of the National University Library, when you have a president of the Croatian Restaurant Institute because it always opens up those discussions about a potential, potential conflict of interest that we call it, although if someone advocates for their institution, I think it is not something that would imply a conflict of interest, but it can be solved in a much more elegant and different way, and that is the way there is a legal possibility, which is the acceptance of multi-annual projects precisely from these institutions. It means that in talks with the ministry at some thematic council session, the institutions propose a specific body of projects of considerable national importance, which will be financed over 3 years and automatically then representatives of these institutions who have concentrated expertise and knowledge more about such matters on the council do not practically discuss it than every 3 years if these projects become... strategic in this regard. We also welcome, for example, the recently completed project of the library inpleternica. We think it's a good job and we'd love to have opportunities to congratulate very quickly on the completion of the library in Požega. We would also like to congratulate the completion of a museum in Metkovic that is not finished, the museum... in Losinj, we would like to see the beginning of the works related to the State Archives in Kerestinc. We would like to finally see something about the beginning of the works of the Croatian Museum of History, a country that has entered the European Union that we do not have an adequate central national historical museum, and we would very much like it not to go through the public-private partnership system, because through a public-private partnership system, as mentioned in the cults of the Ministry of Culture, this project will cost us three times more, and we believe that both for the State Archives of Kerestinec and for the Croatian historical museum, with proper documentation prepared and there is a possibility that these funds will be found in European funds. Perhaps when we talk about these amendments and the additions of this law, we should also remember the budgets of the Ministry of Culture for the following year. A nominal increase is seen and a nominal increase is also seen in things that should concern the restoration of either movable or immovable cultural heritage. In three years, we believe that this government and the current position in the Ministry of Culture are too little. I'll remind you of an extremely good project... Hanna, he practically started in 2011. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Out of the targeted, individual heritage restoration projects that attract EU funds, we are now seeing a project on Cres in the Moise Palace which was also drawn in 2010 and 2011 programmes through the Council of Europe Programme, which refers to the rehabilitation of the archaeological, architectural heritage of Southeast Europe. So we can't see any other projects right now. It is mentioned that it will be Ricardo Bencic in Rijeka, a administrative building, an old administrative building of sugarcane. Certain funds are provided here under operational programmes of effective human potential and also in the item for immovable cultural goods. However, programmes should still be developed for all of this and adequate project documentation should be prepared to do so. It's sad to go with that in the third year of office, and we could go in the first. So both Cres and Bencic could be halfway done. That's the main structural problem. The main structural problem also related to this law is that it is still on the digital register that has been created and that there is a potential investor who wants to take a particular cultural good in the concession cannot see what it can, which it cannot. If there is a digital register that has enough data in it and it exists, it was made in 2011, in 2012, it was promoted, it exists. In principle, it lists all cultural goods. And there's one section that talks about what to do with that cultural good would possibly be bold or not dared to. If I'm a potential investor who wants to take one of Zagorje's cocks, one fort on Hvar in a concession, may I introduce the electricity I can make there? Do you mind if I put the catering facilities there? How to conduct a sanitary node? Then, if it existed, the long-term concession system would make sense. This, in our deep conviction, can and must be done by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage Protection. Of course they can't do it in the first year for a hundred objects, but let them do it in every county for one. For one first year in every county. That's 20 objects. To find a long-term concessionaire in the first year for ten of them, you've already done something. As long as an investor who goes into a concession of such an object doesn't really know what to do with it or if he can. As long as it's still a threat to him around the corner, while there's no clarification of the platform regrets the god of introducing changes and additions to this law. Moreover, the service of the state administration in this sense would be much more transparent in this way, because if the service and the resolution Ministry of Culture publishes transparently what is or may not, what is expected in this sense would be more and more transparent and much more effective. Less cases would be on the Cultural Goods Council, because the Cultural Goods Council wouldn't have to make those border situations, so to speak, make decisions that can be in some way both presidential. So, in that sense, this second reading of amendments to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is better than the first proposal we had here in our first reading. However, we would also love at the Croatian Democratic Community club to see and discuss on the professional bodies of the Ministry at the Croatian Restaurant Institute all of what we are saying. Because we believe that if these additional remarks were respected, that the law would be better and that it would in practice prove adequate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95590	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Đurđica Plancic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95591	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, we discussed it at the 13th session and adopted it on 15 July 2014. The SDP club supported the law-making process by assessing the proposed changes and complementing a significant step in trying to improve the law, making it as life-threatening as possible and making protection of cultural goods as efficient and efficient as possible. We also assessed the positive desire to facilitate the modification of these goods into an economic function which is primarily achieved by its compliance with the Law on concessions and the extension of the time on which that concession can be given. In addition, compliance with the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning has been carried out and other issues have been addressed which have been shown in practice insufficiently or inadequately arranged. In particular, I would set out a more detailed regulation of the obligations and procedures of investors when accessing procedures on cultural goods as well as the conduct of competent authorities in the event that the investor or contractor takes actions without the required documents for construction or against the same which was actually intended to spot such action. The law is complemented by new provisions that regulate the control of the transport of mobile cultural goods in order to prevent illegal trade in those goods. All of these SDP interventions were supported. And now I'd like to stay and look back at the changes that have taken place in relation to the first-reading bill. In the first instance, the final proposal is in line with Directive 2014/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 on the return of cultural objects illegally exported from the territory of the EU Member State and amending the EU Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Articles which are subject to the procedure and conditions for the return of those cases have been illegally exported from the territory of the EU Member State if they are located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the return of those cases which have been unlawfully exported from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Respecting the comments made in the debate as well as the opinions of the relevant parliamentary committees, the Proposer gave up the earlier proposed amendments in the composition and manner of appointment of members and responsibilities of the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods. Thus, the council in the current composition will continue to work and will continue to be competent to give a preliminary opinion in the process of establishing the end of the cultural good quality. The final proposal for a law does not propose any exemption from the obligation to establish legal publishing rights as a means of ensuring the collection of funds invested from public sources. Furthermore, further complemented and more clearly formulated provisions on the right to purchase and concession conditions within the protected area of nature have been updated. In particular, I would like to commend the addition of the provisions which specify and define the construction and validation of the conservation elaborate and the establishment of specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods in the process of issuing a local and construction permit. The final proposal also included a provision extending the current method of payment of indirect monumental rent and will continue to pay the monumental rent by 31 December 2015 only legal and natural persons carrying out certain profitable activities while, in order to facilitate business conditions, many economic operators will continue to be exempt from this obligation. As I said at first we appreciate the proposed changes and complements significant progress in caring for cultural goods, so our club will support its adoption. The SDP Club also supports the proposed amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, which refers to the fact that it gives an appropriate importance to a specific profession of landscape architecture. The participation of landscape architects in the development of conservative elaborates is considered very important, and in our opinion it should be mandatory when it comes to monuments of park architecture which, fortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, have a great deal. Finally, it is difficult to disagree with the assessment that we have a good and comprehensive law, and that there is much work to be done on its application in practice. In particular, we think about equating practices in the handling of competent authorities in all procedures and better and more efficient coordination of different public administration bodies. Generally to raise the responsibility of all participants in the process of protecting our exceptional cultural treasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95592	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95593	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of our Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague. The HNS Club will support the proposed law, i.e. the addition of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. We have also talked about the reasons behind this, not long ago, by citing the problems that we are facing and which, among other things, change the law, which are different rules concerning the same or very similar things, namely the different implementation of the same provisions in practice or in different parts of our country. This proposal for a law in the whole of Croatia will implement the same thing as is actually only fair and correct and correct. It is correct and logical to align this law with other laws and other regulations that we will do with its adoption and adoption. We bring it into line, as my predecessors have said, with the Law on concessions, the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning, as well as with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May this year. The law further regulates the placing of cultural goods into office and that is one of its fundamental purposes and that is one of its fundamental ideas. And the idea is that those who culturally well use them in any way are directed to their preservation. For example, it is prescribed by this law that the notification of the intention to grant concessions in addition to the information prescribed by the concession law must also contain conditions for the protection and preservation of cultural goods and how they are implemented by concessionaries. We consider this a good solution because the rules and conditions of use and preservation of cultural goods are known at the outset as they should be. Because we can talk for days about values, wealth and the importance of cultural goods, but if we don't, if we don't set out the ways and conditions of their use, we won't do enough in their preservation, and we are doing these amendments to the law exactly that's what we're doing for purchases, sales, land and book registrations, upgrades, power, concessions or any other way using cultural goods, and that's why the HNS Club will, as we announced this bill on the protection and preservation of cultural goods and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95594	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95595	Dear colleagues, you said the law would now be applied equally throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And so far has been spent equally on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, but because of diversity, cultural goods, from Dubrovnik coast, islands, Slavonia, Croatian Zagorje it is simply impossible to prescribe some procedures. It is a completely different methodology for the restoration of the Great Tabor from the Kula Kamelengo in Trogir or, for example, from the renovation and work in Starigradsko... It's completely different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no one who hasn't figured out how to prescribe... And it would be very dangerous to prescribe them in the same way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In each protective procedure, protective research works that then determine the methodology of reconstruction are preceded. Dear colleagues, this law itself will not find any concessionaires for cultural well-being, not a single one, remember what I told you. It will be found only by a clear, professional proposed platform of what is on a particular cultural good and on what deadline it is allowed. And then when an investor or a concessionary sees it, and by me and by us is a step that should follow this law through the activity of the service, then we can only hope that for some culturally well-being we will get concessionaries. When he's gonna know that next to some bitch might be able to build a tennis court, when he'll know that there... He can organize a B-type hospital, or he can build a wellness center there, when he knows it, that he can, in some he won't be able to, are they worth so much that they deserve to be just a museum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But some will be able to give such an intention, but it must be prescribed by the services and it will be the initial beginning of any concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95596	Sonja König, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95597	... Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] My colleague Mesic, this law has not been implemented differently because different land-booking departments, or courts, or those who implemented the law interpreted this law differently. This law will change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95598	Final Deputy Minister Mr Berislav Šipush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95599	I thank Madam Vice President, and I thank all those who participated in today's debate, and I would especially like to thank all the committees and individuals who participated in the first, or in the debate between the first and second readings. Just as you all mentioned in the final draft of the law, the practical remarks and opinions of the relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament and the comments made in the debate in the Croatian Parliament during the first reading are respected. So we really keep this text in line, so I would say with almost all the factors of this Parliament. Let me just talk to my fellow Messic. I think that as far as the consolidated text of this law is concerned, it is possible that such a version can be made here in the Parliament, by means of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, of course. We believe that the amendments and additions of this law will help to facilitate the inclusion of immovable cultural goods in projects so-called. large investments because the course of proceedings is now simplified. I'll mention, as unpopular as it sounds to cultural people, and perhaps to me, that giving up the monumental rent and in 2015 will bring about 40 million kuna economic operators more in their financial portfolios. And as for priority projects and investments for 2015, I would say that exactly the list of projects of the Ministry of Culture, the priorities coincided with what fellow MPs were saying today, i.e. The Metkovic Museum, which we expect in the first quarter of next year to be completed and ready to open. It is an absolute museum of Croatian aproxiom in Mali Losinj, it is also the Vucedole Museum of Archaeology meaning archaeological site important to all of us, it is quite certain and the Croatian historical museum for which we expect to begin and work next year. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95600	Did you call in the replica? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday. Now we're gonna stop the debate by 3:00. And then we will continue with a proposal for a long-term plan to develop the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95601	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 677, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I would like the representative of the motionary, the respected Deputy Culture Minister Berislav Šipush to be shown on the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 1 to Article 31
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95602	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95603	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 34
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95604	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95605	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95606	The amendment shall not be accepted as the conservatory elaborate is produced for all immovable cultural goods referred to in Article 7. The law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods means that it covers as a professional document and landscape, which is protected as a cultural good. Furthermore, the term object of landscape architecture is not defined by the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods or by the Nature Protection Act, however, all objects protected as culturally well are covered by a conservative elaborat which brings them closer together to regulate measures to protect and preserve cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95607	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, a respected representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95608	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95609	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 118 votes for P.Z.E. law passed. No. 677 as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95610	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. In front of us - Proposal for a long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015 to 2024; The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When adopting a long-term development plan, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. You've received reports. We have with us a representative of the promoter, Minister Ante Kotromanovic. Minister of the Introductory? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95611	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, fellow MPs, former fellow MPs, dear friends. Here today we will talk about a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We had a Defence Committee this morning and we went through it in a good and quality way. We have made a presentation for parliamentary representatives and board members and have detailed knowledge of our intentions, with our vision of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces is a fundamental document of defence planning, which sets out long-term projections of development, the necessary capabilities and defines the resources for their implementation. Under the terms of budgetary restrictions, the drafting of this document has been a special challenge for us. It is necessary to ensure, on the one hand, the development of capabilities that will enable the implementation of the Constitutional Regulation of the Armed Forces and, on the other hand, to take account of financial opportunities and the overall social environment. This plan is the result of deep analysis, our reflections from different angles of view, with several different scenarios and evaluations of numerous factors affecting security and defence requirements. The Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces for the period 2015-2024 is the second such document this Parliament will now adopt and one has already brought. So, the first one was adopted in 2006 and already after a year, it clashed with a difficult reality, which is that the means that the projection of the funds planned for that period had to be cut and unfortunately the objectives could not be met were unattainable. As for us, we used lessons, learned lessons from that period, tried to set this long-term development plan on solid and realistic foundations, and very often we heard during the public debate that our long-term development plan is ambitious, and on the one hand it is not that ambitious. Our view is that then we are somehow on a good path in the middle and given the economic situation that we have and the resources that we will have in the next ten years that it is feasible. In the period since the previous long-term development plan of the Armed Forces for 2006-2015, there has been significant changes in the environment. Croatia has become a NATO member, we have become a member of the EU, Croatia participates in joint defences, in peace support operations and assistance to civilian institutions, which inevitably requires further modernisation and one balanced building of the necessary capabilities. At the same time, new challenges and threats have arisen in the global and regional security environment, and defence allocations have been reduced due to the economic crisis. It is not only a trend in Croatia, it is a trend in most NATO countries except Poland, the United States and another country. But I hope that's going up now. NATO membership means adding a whole new security and political dimension to the Republic of Croatia, as well as EU accession. So he fully created one additional and strengthened position of Croatia through these two important and significant factors for the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has affirmed itself as a responsible and credible member of the international community, and as an ally that fulfils its obligations and contributes to security on a regional and global scale. The development of the defence, however, is a continuous process which cannot be stopped at these achievements but must be adapted to the circumstances in the strategic and regional environment by carrying out appropriate transformations and adaptations. The functioning in the circumstances of the reduced defence budget and the requirement for specific capabilities to be implemented by the Republic of Croatia, means that it will be able to complete and respond to current and future threats in a dynamic and complex security environment, a framework in which a long-term armed forces plan has been prepared for the next ten-year period. The Long-term Plan of the Armed Forces is surrounded by a defence reform process involving the development and adoption of a strategic defence plan. This is what we did in 2013, and two key laws, the Service Act and the Defence Act, we also passed it during 2013. After this, we are followed by a plan of defence of the Republic of Croatia, and that plan is under way. The next year will also be presented to the public. This long-term development plan is based on strategic analyses carried out under the Strategic Defence Plan, brings a projection of the development of military capabilities and defines the resources for their implementation. In the future, the Republic of Croatia will develop armed forces that will be suited to the challenges of the long-term period ahead. The forces that will be strong with regard to the implementation of their fundamental constitutional role, but which will be able to bear also part of the burden of joint operations with allies with their willingness, training and equipment, and be available to the vulnerable population in disasters and crisis situations which we have had opportunities to see, unfortunately, lately. After the necessary transformation of the Armed Forces of modern and powerful forces, what do we want to do? In order to achieve this, we will reduce management and command structures, improve the structure of staff, we will try to balance the structure of the budget for the benefit of equipment, modernisation, and implement training as well as the necessary assumptions on which modern and effective Armed Forces will be developed. The long-term development plan as a basic defence plan for planning is in line with the rural planning process in NATO and includes the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the development of the abilities of allies. So we have also handled this long-term development plan in one way with our strategic partners, and these have been our allies from the United States and from some other countries where we have also presented the very draft long-term development plan where we have also received the same rather positive view of how we intend to define and develop our system in the future. In order to reduce the allocation for defence needs and in the last few years, the harmonisation of the objectives set and the commitment to the means available was a very demanding process that we sought to strike a balance between the objectives, opportunities and resources set. Our vision of the Armed Forces is that, at the end of this development period, the armed forces will be well-trained, equipped and guided and able to carry out their missions and tasks first. The organization and structure of the Armed Forces will go through a reconstruction that will result in an effective command structure, not only the Armed Forces, we think next year, although it is an election year, we are working now and we will finish up by the end of the year hopefully a new establishment of the Ministry of Defence where we also want to reduce business processes, integrate, one part of the job we will integrate and transfer to the main headquarters, speed up that administration, reduce the number of people in the administration and show that we can do another step in that part too. So the total numbered total size of the Armed Forces will be 15 thousand persons employed, plus 400 cadets we plan to reach by the end of 2017. However, it should be noted that, with the professional composition on the right track after the end of the Homeland War, we are launching activities to arrange the reserve component of the Armed Forces. We've seen that this year and we've got two battlefields, one in the south, one in the east. Next year we'll move on. Action under these circumstances which marks complex and social, and organisational structures and the application of new technologies requires new knowledge and skills from members of the Armed Forces. Therefore, training new and completing existing defence and safety personnel is of primary importance. Education for the needs of the Armed Forces, or defence resources, and scientific activities in this context represent extremely important areas of the long-term development plan. We've made a complete reform of military school and this is the first year we started a whole new study and that's what I would say is the same important and important step that will contribute to having better and stronger armed forces tomorrow. Equipment and modernisation with trained and motivated personnel is also a key element of the long-term development of the Armed Forces. The equipment and modernisation projects are a direct contribution to the development of the identified capabilities to be developed within the Armed Forces. The priorities of the Croatian Land Army are the modernisation and equipment of key equipment of the Armed Forces. So by the end of that cycle, we have to complete the armored vehicle by 2017 with a 30 mm cannon. You have seen that we have already signed a contract with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany on the purchase of the Panzerhaubitze 2000, 12 pieces. In our plan is the revision and modernisation of tanks, the purchase of a new portable anti-aircraft system, we'll have that at the end of next year. So we're equipping portable PZH systems with short range systems, and we're talking to our strategic partners, and we think that that way we're going to solve what's very important and important for the protection of the troops, for the protection of our sky from the ground. So the continuation of the purchase of engineering funds, ABCOM funds, and in perspective, is the last item of some kind until 2024 modernization of ships, infantry, BVP M-80. As for the priorities of the equipment and modernisation of the Croatian Navy, we will give a focus on the development of the coast guard through the continuation of coastal coastal boat equipment projects. So last Friday we signed a contract with Brodosplit, these last five coastal patrol ships of my office were over 680 enquiries from all over the world about these ships working outside, we insisted and we did everything we could to build ships in Croatia and that's important. Because now we're working on development also more dedicated off the coastal patrol ship. The idea is that this ship is also working in Croatia. We have abilities and capacities and we can secure resources in the next period if we manage processes well and resources. So here we will also go to the remonting and modernization of RBS-15 rockets to obtain two mine hunters for our needs for the Croatian Navy and modernization... the system is very important and important because in this way we will be connected to all parts of Croatia's society, and we will have one clearer and better picture of our sea, and here we will single out 12 million euros because we are not satisfied with the current situation that we have within the Armed Forces. As far as Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defense are concerned, we will develop the capabilities and supervision of the protection of the airspace of the Republic of Croatia. The decision on the capacity of... aviation will be delivered by the end of 2016. We will already form a team of people next year from the best experts and people who are retired, people who are..., from the Ministry of Economy and we will do a study that will... what type of aircraft would be best for Croatia, we will look at this multinational approach if we can develop abilities together with someone else from the region, it is the same current one, but I say, it depends on a lot of things and we will know something more at the end of next year. The decision must be made by the end of 2016, because the resources we have available today, their operational importance or use can be made by 2020 and we need to start introducing these systems which, I would say, as soon as possible. We're also considering the possibility of a helicopter being replaced, and we're on our way. We talked to our partners in the U.S., we'd go on two types of helicopters, they'd get them for free, if they were all right, and we'd only pay the VAT, and later we'd go on a harder and bigger version of the helicopter that's completely suitable for what we need, that's protection, rescue, transportation of wounded, transportation of patients because it's much cheaper, the helicopter is called... it's much cheaper and easier and faster than the helicopters we have today in... use, and these are east-made helicopters. As far as it's concerned, it also means the same planned series of development projects... and logistics, special forces, so that's where we specifically give an emphasis on special forces, we form for... special forces in the main headquarters. These are the people who are, peace should be our strike force,... one battalion, we have, for them we've got the complete good, best equipment we can get at this point... and we keep buying it and we think it's necessary and important for our... forces. We'll rationalize the use... The defense departments, so next year, in the next period of more than 25 real estate, we're going to hand over to the Real estate agency. There is now a list, a second list of assets, and we will finally have a clear picture of what the Ministry of Defense has. In 20 years we simply didn't care about it, and that's what we've given ourselves the task of getting the unconditional opinion of the state audit in 2015, we've made a series of action plans, we've tried to write this property down in a way that we know what we have, everything that's not perspective we're handing over to the state agency, and we're going to disburse ourselves, and we're going to reduce a series of problems that we have, and these are various leases, various leases, that's a lot of claims that we can't charge over the last 15 years, and so, of course, we're doing that in agreement with the state's attorney. Financial analyses and assessments... perspectives point to the conclusion that the implementation of the project and the achievement of the capabilities defined by this plan need to allocate funds at a level of at least 48 billion kuna over the next ten-year period, meaning no aircraft, so the objective by 2018 is to maintain an existing level... of budget and, with the recovery of the economy and GDP growth, to create assumptions for a more significant and realistic increase in the defence budget in the continuation of the plan period. It is important to stress that with the difficulties that we have in economic... a multi-year defence allocation plan so I hope that we will first stabilise the budget, and from the surplus of equipment and weapons, it has been approved by the government, from the sale of these surpluses, from the sale of the properties that are now located... The Ministry of Defence and Sales..., we also train other armies in the territory of Croatia, we also think of raising our budget in the coming years and therefore we have realistic assumptions, we already have contracts that we have signed and this year we have already earned more than 40 million kuna from such things only and thus raised our budget. I would particularly like to emphasise the fact that an open and very transparent attitude towards the public during the preparation of a long-term development plan. So, we did public consultation, multiple times, it was conducted between October and November 2014. We had a series of comments, a series of good solutions, a series of good suggestions that they offered us. So, there were interested political parties to this expert public,... choirs, we had a great debate with them,..., journalists who follow, individuals,... clusters and we really got a series of, I say, valuable comments, one significant part we also involved and put into the long-term plan... RH. This long-term development plan unequivocally concludes that the Republic of Croatia continues to develop the Armed Forces in line with security challenges, starting with a fundamental constitutional role and taking care of the definition of peace and stability in the world, especially in the region. The goals and values we seek are embedded in... forces capable of responding to future challenges, thus fulfilling our social role and our international obligations. In the end, I would like to stress that the Armed Forces are not only an instrument for... mission tasks but rather one of the key elements and an indication of the identity of the state and society. ... a war with a high social reputation based on a successful historically important mission of defence and liberation of the country, it will, with the provision of adequate resources and in the future, form one of the fundamental foundations of security and stability and development of society. Mr. Vice President, in the introduction so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95612	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Grubisic. What about the replica? I apologize to my colleague Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95613	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I'll start somewhere from the end of your debate, 20 years after the Homeland War you said a sentence that you're not responsible for, and it's not just this government, "we'll finally know what the ministry is up to, what we have." Isn't it sad in Croatia we know what we don't have? We will soon be 25 years of independence or I like to say multiparty in the Croatian state, and we still don't have a full list of assets, we don't know what we have, and we know that we have a hard time living. It's just like a private household they know they don't have, and they don't know what they have. It's nonsensical that's really worrying. Secondly, you said that the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces is on a solid and realistic basis. I'm sure if you were to determine the Ministry of Defense's budget to be different, I believe that because you're a soldier from head to toe and you'd be completely different, he's on real ground but if we didn't know it on solid ground. whether these real foundations are solid according to the current status, what experts say is in what state techniques are in the Croatian Armed Forces and everything that needs to be monitored by human potential is absolutely certain that these foundations are not solid, so we will probably see in the course of the debate. This is quite certain what needs to be supported by this plan, whether it will be possible with a bang, and you said for the second year the defence ministry's budget is getting fucked, we just need to know that membership in NATO doesn't mean that we are at all cost defended, that there is an article 3 or 5. I don't know which country is said to be able to take care of their own defense first and then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95614	Thank you. We're starting a club debate. In front of the Independent Grubisic-Kain Club, they are missing the right to debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak, he is missing, losing his right to debate. On behalf of the SDP club Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95615	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with assistants, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs. We have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces for the period from 2015 to 2024. As the minister told me in front of me, a fundamental document of defence planning that will contribute to the development and capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as NATO, which is a member of the Republic of Croatia. It should replace the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces for the period 2006 to 2015 which remained unfulfilled as at least too ambitious. However, it should also be taken into account that Croatia has joined NATO and entered the EU in the meantime, that the economic crisis has significantly affected the budget, and that global security and uncertainty have taken place. This DPR is based on two key laws, these are certainly the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed on the basis of a deep and extensive analysis and public debate, respecting, of course, budgetary constraints. So it can be said that it really stands on a real basis. In the next 10 years, 48 billion kunas will need to be singled out, which is not inaccessible. By 2017, the objective is to maintain an existing level of defence planning and budget and to ensure economic recovery and GDP growth, to plan for a realistic increase in the defence budget, primarily to halt the multiannual continuing fall in defence isolation. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia would be developed in a simplified manner through three branches or through three tasks, which are the first defence of their own territory, secondly, the protection of international security and, of course, third not less important, assistance to the civilian population. At the end of this period, the DPR predicts a smaller number of people somewhere up to 15,000 employees, and at the end of this year the figure was around 18,800, but the goal is to be better trained, equipped and able to carry out certain defined missions and tasks. The structure would be 1:3 to 1:5 in proportion of officers to soldiers. The plan includes a new category of staff, military specialists. These are persons who possess the specialized knowledge and skills necessary for the conduct of military duties in the families of combat support, services and structures. They must meet the general conditions for admission to active military service after education and may be admitted to the military service, given the rank of a military specialist or lieutenant or Lieutenant Lieutenant of the Army Special Forces. For the first time since the Homeland War, a reserve assembly is planned. The draft DPR proposal until 31.12.2017 provides for the formation of reserve forces and these contractual reserves around a thousand members and the mobilization reserve, a class that served the military deadline and they were unclassified. All up to 20,000 members will be deployed to reserve armed forces with weapons and equipment. The training of reserve units will be conducted according to the same standards as the training of the professional composition using the same doctrine and training process, and will differ only in different stages of the readiness to carry out the task. Contracting and classifying reserves during training and conduct of duties will be evaluated and can be promoted. Contracting reserves will cover construction sites for specific military-professional specialities, which are necessary for the performance of operations which are not suitable for the completion of the active composition of the Armed Forces for certain reasons, for example. highly specialized medical staff. The Republic of Croatia will develop the capacity for sustainable participation in operations outside the country within NATO and the European Union with a maximum of 1000 members of the Armed Forces. The defence budget will plan the necessary financial resources to participate in operations up to 200 members of the Armed Forces, while funding of a possible engagement will be provided beyond the budget. So one of the most important goals is a capable army, which is why military education is crucial. It should undergo a transformation through three stages. The first has already started in this school year, it is the establishment of pre-graduate university studies and programmes within the Croatian Military University. So these are military engineering and military leadership and management programs. So the first phase would include further military nautics and military shipbuilding and later military air engineering. The second phase would begin in 2018 by setting up a study programme of graduate and postgraduate levels and of course the third university phase of 2020 to institutionalise higher education for defence purposes at the Croatian Military University. Investment in people, their education, their overall concern for improving working and living conditions is an assumption for the life of a vision of the development of the Armed Forces. The military profession should be built in accordance with the principles of high professionalism, expertise and social responsibility, and therefore education for the needs of the Armed Forces and the defence portfolio and scientific activities in this context are key areas of this DPR. In addition to the people, equipment and modernisation are important, as the minister said. Because of the Ukrainian crisis, it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain existing and too slow helicopters, so their replacement for American ones is planned to be there in 2024. And therefore, for equipment and construction with 12% in 2014 it would be worth up to 21% in 2024. For this DPR, control mechanisms, i.e. control processes, are very important. First of all, he is in the hands of this Croatian Parliament who will regularly monitor implementation through the Annual Defence Report. It'll be revised every three years. In the event of significant changes in the strategic and security environment in social and political processes and ultimately will be tested each year in the defence budget. Regardless of the crisis, the priorities are clear, the defence is important and the armed forces in the developed democracy have a prominent position and reputation. Such status contributes to the preservation of professionalism with high training, defined internal relations and equipment. All of this involves this long-term development plan and makes a significant contribution. The SDP Club supports the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from 2015 to 2024. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95616	Thank you. We have one replica of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95617	Well, you mentioned one segment that's going through this long-term plan proposal and it's about education, or what life-long education says here. Since currently members of the Croatian Army are limited to so-called 2+1 contracts, the question is how do you even realize lifelong education when you know that let's say 37 people come into a situation that just can't extend further contracts if they haven't progressed and it's normal that they can't all progress. So I've been asked this segment, for example. On the other hand, we have a situation here that says that let's go tell some continuity with a reduction in the number of members of the Croatian Army. Now I won't go with the fact that the Croatian Army had some kind of, not some kind of, victory mentality and she's a winning army. Can we count today with such mentality with these details that definitely burden those who are in that system, and that certainly means a lot to them in terms of security. You mentioned the acquisition of a new technique and I have to admit that I haven't read anywhere here how they're going to last a lifetime, I haven't read anywhere what those funds are or where they're going to be obtained from. It does not have to be decided but it should at least be indicated what it is planned to do. What am I saying that for? That's why a few days ago when we talked about missions, I warned that I didn't see enough involvement in our industry, our economy, our economy in all this. And I think this is exactly the right way to involve our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95618	... Here you go. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95619	Dear colleague, I'd just like to look back on your life-long line of education. I wasn't talking about the whole life in my presentation. I was talking about formal military education. Of course, lifelong education is a continuation of every formal education and that it is worth talking about here I fully support you. However, what is the emphasis of this long-term plan is formal military education and it has been sufficiently elaborated in these three stages that we talked about as such in this plan should and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95620	Thank you. Minister Kotromanovic called for the word. Here you go, Minister. For the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95621	I'll be happy to explain my colleagues to these two questions. So we have a system of education, it's different what you're saying. We have, of course, a 2+1 contract for soldiers, we've introduced a third contract that wasn't before that people could reach that age 20 I'd say job internship so they could later, they're too old after that for the military, so they can pursue another career later. So, of these people, if someone has a tall one, they end up doing a high-level training during, say, 20-year service in the Armed Forces, we'll be happy to, and we take them every year for at least 10 of our needs to be able to work as an officer's career. So we give them a chance, we invite them, we give them a chance if they can make it happen. We've now had the last receptions of soldiers, we've received a lot of people with high professional training to volunteer for military service, we've also received the Armed Forces, and we will certainly allow them to run for officers. So the school system... the military school is completely separate from this one. There are cadets, we wrote for the first time now 100 cadets, it was of great interest, over 1,100 people of these young people applied for service, for training at the military academy, and we're very proud of it. Now what we do, we also develop a schooling system in Split with the Naval Faculty for the Navy and it will be in English. As for the Public Procurement Act, where we buy funds, there is a Public Procurement Act, all the funds that we can buy in Croatia here, means everything we can buy in Croatia is there. It's our interest, I told you, I don't know if you listened to it, that we did everything we could to build coastal patrol ships in Croatia. There were over 670 questions from Australia, let's say, to Estonia about them building because it's a public tender, the Public Procurement Act is such that we have to publish in the People's Journal, we have to publish in an e-publisher, but we've done everything we can to promote our domestic military industry and strengthen it. Last year, all I'm going to tell you is that our domestic industry exported over a billion and 250 million kuna with help and our own, the Department of Defense because we're going to crisis areas to lobby and try to open any job where we can help in any way. So it's our interest and we have made it clear in the long-term development plan that we want to rely as much on the domestic industry as we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95622	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95623	Thank you very much. Well, Ministers, you've been talking about the frames now, and that's who you started with, and I'm going to depend on it. As for the staff, when someone completes two contracts and is now in front of this third additional contract, unless, for his private reasons, he was in no position to finish some extra schooling. On the other hand, the system of progress within the HV is quite burdened with some let's say with relationships, and it's not me, you don't have to listen to me, listen, read those portals that deal with it, read at the forums of people who are in the system what they say is the only way you can progress and that it's pretty much not to say questionably. What remains of these people when they come to 37 years of life, about 37 years of life, and when they simply haven't progressed through the system, they can't simply be anywhere, they don't have the possibility of further extension of the contract, they can't progress. As for this inclusion of domestic economy and this call for a system of public procurement, but there is practice in the world, we will be neither the first nor the last to condition service here, training our staff to make parts, spare parts, logistics,... a lot of things are there to install our own and it will be neither the first nor the last to commit anything to their participation, by participating our economy, our economy in this. It's a common practice in the world, I don't see why, after all, you're the last of these hoodies you ever got, I don't know if that's what that's about, but there was an opportunity to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95624	Time. Thank you. You won't answer the Minister's question? Okay. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. When we talk about the Armed Forces, however, we must point out that the foundation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia sets out the roles that are recognised in the three missions for the Armed Forces, namely the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Allies, the contribution to international security and support to civil institutions. When we talk about defence of territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence and defence of allies, the primary mission of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia under this mission, the Armed Forces must be prepared to deter, stop and reject on their own and with the help of the Allies armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia, contribute to the defence of allies in operations in accordance with Article 5. The North Atlantic Treaty and protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia on land, sea and airspace. When we talk about this defense of territorial integrity, we can be particularly proud that we have really gained experience in the Homeland War. The contribution to international security is a mission by the Armed Forces through which they contribute to international security and to the creation and maintenance of a more favourable international environment, through participation in peace support operations, defence diplomacy and control of arms, disarmament and the prevention of weapons polypheretion. We can also say that we are a very responsible member of the European Union and of the NATO Pact, and this is confirmed and also our quality and value in many of the missions in which we participate. Both the third part and no less important, which is support to civil institutions, is a mission that armed forces provide support to civil institutions and public in the crisis management process and face different types of risks and threats that are not of a classical military nature, and are being supported by police and other state bodies, support for protection and rescue and support for civil society. There, too, we can stress with satisfaction the prominent role of our Armed Forces in these floods not only, but also that of supporting civil society where the Armed Forces are very good at participating in cooperation with local, regional self-governments to arrange certain infrastructure works in their area. And when we talk about the Armed Forces, we can point out that they are not only an instrument for the implementation of missions and tasks but also one of the key elements, as well as an indication of the identity of both the states and our entire society standing in the Homeland War with a high social reputation based on a successful historically important mission to defend and liberate the country in principle with the provision of adequate resources and in the future make one of the fundamental foundations of security, stability and development of our society. The Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces for the period 2015 to 2024 is the second long-term plan we bring. The DPR is based on the Defence Act and the DPR proposal is based on the analytical process that was carried out last year in the framework of the Strategic Defence Review adopted by the Government in July 2013, which operates on concepts and needs for the transformation of defence capabilities identified by the Strategic Defence Review. What is most important is that DPR is a central document in defence planning that directs the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia over the next 10 years, which is in this case what we mentioned from 2015 to 2024. The document shows a long-term projection of the development of the necessary military capabilities and defines resources to realise the development of the necessary capabilities. Under the terms of budgetary restrictions on the making of this document, I was sure of a special challenge. However, on the one hand, it is necessary to ensure the development of capabilities that will enable the constitutional role of the Armed Forces to be fulfilled, and on the other hand, to take account of financial opportunities and the overall social environment. The document is set up in 13 chapters. In addition to the introduction we have levels of ambition, visions of development, development of capabilities, organisations and structures of the Armed Forces, development of human potential, education and science, training and doctrines, equipment, modernisation, facilities, infrastructure, logistics system, financial resources and management processes. Compared to the 2006 document, the structure has been changed in some form. New elements of the document such as the level of ambition have been added, and are more prominently highlighted and processed in those areas which have proved to be critical in the following experience from the previous document, such as chapter Management Processes. Of these chapters, I'd like to make a special note. First of all, I believe that it is one of the most important highlights of this document, which is the development of human potential and training. The objectives are defined in this section, which are to achieve the objectives of most staff, achieve an adequate staff structure and, of course, improve the staff management process. At this point we have active military personnel that we are planning by 2017, 14380 and civil servants and tenants with Plan 620. A total of 15 members, a group of Armed Forces. Of course, the paper is that and for the purpose of completing the active composition of the classified reserves, there will be up to 2000 handbooks per year on voluntary military training, and then in the first part of the planning period, and then the number will, according to the needs, be filled with the active system and... Reservoirs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, in order to ensure the fullness of the active composition, officers will be educated up to 400 cadets on Croatian Military School student programmes. The active composition of the Armed Forces will form a basis for the growth of forces, and the reserve composition will form contractual and mobilization reserves. What is also important for the development of human potential, which is that we need to continue to invest in military education and science, and this is based on this document by establishing pre-graduate, university programmes within the Croatian Military University. Also, the establishment of study programmes for graduates and after graduation levels, as well as the inclusion of full higher education for defence purposes. And yes, it is well said that this whole higher education should be highly interacting with the economy so that the new values of knowledge, the education we have built into both defence and the acquisition of new resources, and finally the acquisition and improvement of financial powers. Another level of this long-term development plan I would point out as the main project of equipment and modernisation. This is where we said in the introduction and the minister himself stressed that we are really taking care of it. When we talk about the Croatian Land Army, first of all, we define the completion of the combat armored vehicle project,... systems, audits and modernisation of tanks, new transmission anti-aircraft systems, transmission and anti-aircraft systems, engineering tools, means of modernising the infantry combat vehicle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I talk about the Navy, we're also talking about investing in supply and equipment for coastal armored ships. Also modernising the radar system, extending the life span against the ship's rocket system, mine hunters, autonomous underwater vehicles, equipping new anti-ship rockets and equipping multi-purpose armored ships. When I talk about Croatian Air Force and... I don't think anyone contributes, or defines the question that we need a long-term solution to protect airspace by obtaining both new aircraft systems and helicopters, fire-fighting aircraft. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also aircraft for tactical protective transport and parachute training and of course also upgrades and modernization of the radar system. In addition to the main design of equipment, we need to keep in mind and communication information systems that talk about investing in a stationary network system and relocated network systems. When we talk about a support community, we talk about equipping non-combat vehicles. Also means of staying, water treatment and... warehouses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I would specifically point out about rationalization, which is... the number of objects using only perspective properties. In this long-term plan, it is defined that 25 objects are planned for abandonment, and it is defined that construction, adaptation and reconstruction of objects in locations that are intended for... the deployment of Armed Forces will mainly follow the principle that major military facilities that do not have development capacity for more than 2000 staff and do not have any more... or training facilities will be considered unspective. What I would especially like to stress here is that... in the construction of buildings there are military facilities in Petrinja, Ples, Zemunik, Knin, Karlovac, Pula, but what is seen is that there is essentially no object that is from northern Croatia. So, there's no Međimurje County, the Varazdinian, the Koprivnica and the Krapina-Zagorska. And yes, it is well said that the funds that have been achieved or that will be achieved by selling unspective and temporary perspective properties will be invested in further modernisation and infrastructure of the Ministry of Defence. However, I would say one proposal, what I said was that non-spective and temporary perspective property from that north of Croatia should be donated to local and regional self-government units because most of the part of the north of Croatia has been denied around investments in modernisation and also about investments in human resources above all. Here, people from that area of buses travel daily to the east of our country, to Zagreb, and also to the south. So that the part should still be taken into account and, of course, it is well mentioned that one way to finance and projects to build and modernise infrastructure will be able to benefit from EU funds. What I would like to mention, which is the financial framework. The assumptions for achieving this long-term development plan always depend on finances not only good will and knowledge. And the assumptions are as follows, which is that it will be necessary to stop the collapse of the defence budget and to keep at the level of 2014, to ensure gradual real growth by 2018, of course strengthening efforts to reach NATO guidelines, and that is 2% of GDP and 10 years should be allocated at least 48 billion kuna for defence. In the structure of the financial framework, however, I would like to mention that we must take care at the outset that human resources are still the most important to us. So it's good that the amount to raise the salary is planned over the past 10 years to at least make up 5% of the total detachment for defense. I think we need to take care of people and I think it's minimal that in this part we set ourselves as a goal and make it real and real. Of course, it is also important that the Croatian Parliament will regularly monitor the implementation of this long-term development plan and on the basis of the defence report and this proposal for a defence budget. And, of course, this long-term development plan should be revised every third year regarding significant changes in the strategic and security environments that we are in part of global processes. And finally, indeed, the HNS club will support the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces with a real saying that it's not only the foundation of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution... of a certain role of our ministry but also the foundation of the armed forces that were stationed in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95626	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Young Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95627	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I apologize right now if I heard it wrongly, because we were just commenting that we're hearing a lot of you badly here. If you said no one slows down the need to invest in new planes, so at least here we understand, no one slows down the need to invest in new planes. I must admit that I didn't find it anywhere in this document, in that context, that it would be an undisputed investment in new aircraft but I found a version to consider which option of possible will one day be accepted as such. On the other hand, I haven't found any kind of analysis anywhere as much as what form would cost us. Jake Air Force of four planes or eight planes I'm guessing aren't exactly something that's optimal, and even after we take the maintenance system of it all, then I don't believe that someone thinks it's necessary, incontrovertible, to invest. And on the other hand, we would like to know, and since this is a proposal for a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, I think that this material should have at least indicated what is suggested, which is preferred as finally or let's say some longer-term solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95628	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague of mine said that in that part because let's face it, there were some disputes and opinions. If we'd been just as unequivocal then we wouldn't have come in a moment to discuss it this year and we know that in 2024 we have to have solved that system. In two years, we have to allocate these funds and make a solution that is most optimal. Of the types of aircraft, types and other systems needed by the Republic of Croatia. And indeed no one suspects, and this is well embedded in this long-term development plan, that we need the air force very much. Well, it's not only part of the defence structures, but it's part of the structure. I think there's also the biggest touch of high technology, the number of jobs, and we generate growth in that part. So it's very good that in the long-term development plan it's defined, and it's up to us, we have a very short time to make a final decision about it. I think the biggest point is finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95630	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95631	Here is Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs, and today on behalf of the Defence Committee, I voted in favour of this proposal as my party's representative in the Defence Committee, and our HDSSB club will also be for this proposal of the long-term plan and development of the armed forces for the period 2015 to 2024. Someone mentioned earlier that soon there will be 25 years of independence of the Croatian state. In fact, there will be no 25 years of independence, but there will be 25 years of the Croatian state, a country that was not practically 900 years before that and a country that grew up in the early 1990s and grew exactly on and thanks to almost only the Croatian army, today to the Croatian Armed Forces. Perhaps today from this point that is historically very short and this distance that is very small and we are sometimes brought to some other topics or occupied by other topics and forget and turn away from the mind the importance and role of the Croatian military, which Croatian armed forces have ever played and the importance they had in the process of creating the Croatian state. And it is good that when it comes in particular to strategic documents that define what will happen with the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the next 10 years to bear in mind that yet Croatian states without these Armed Forces would certainly not have, no matter what policy, no matter what the Parliament, if we had failed to create this army and these Armed Forces, and that these Armed Forces were not able to defend and free the state in those times, there would not have been any of us here today. From this point of view and from this aspect, of course, that the Armed Forces today in 2014 look small, small, very weak, professional, but to a pretty much minor or reduced, let's not say minorised, not socially minor, but reduced, reduced to that extent that the plan means in the next ten years that it is reduced to 15 thousand professional soldiers, 15 thousand members, that they have 48 tanks, those 12 self-deposits. We remember a few years or ten years ago when we had, how many 100 thousand handbooks, 80 thousand handbooks, today we don't have them anymore, today we're talking about having 1,000 contractual reserves, no more military service, we have voluntary service through these contractual reserves, the system of military records is lost, at least to a certain extent in the next decade will be compensated through a classed reserve where those who have passed various forms of military training while everyone else will actually be some sort of unclassified reserve. Is this a good way, on the one hand, of course we have entered into one system of collective security through NATO membership, on the other hand we know from history and from the present and there will be a future to threaten at times that will sooner or later, independently of which, no one will die for us or any army will fight for us again, nor will Croatia be able to fight again and, first of all, only Croatian Armed Forces will defend Croatia. However, in light of these realities, we support that this long-term plan for the development of the armed forces provides for the retention of all three tribes of the Croatian Army, which provides for the retention of flight capabilities and in any case the political decision we expect and we hope should come within the mandate of this Government to restore the Croatian Air Force will have our support. On the Defence Committee, I mentioned two systems, perhaps there wasn't enough time to look back at them, which I think are important in the context of and these kind of armies, especially these, which are systems of logistics and staff management. To return to the first staff management system, we have had many bad examples, and you ministers from your history of life and military know how it went and how the staff management system worked in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia? Whether he was non-transparent to the outside, whether he was transparent within himself, whether in this system and to a sufficient extent people could really develop their abilities, their careers and their jobs on the basis of their merits, abilities, quality regardless of where they live, where they come from, from which they are from, that they can have quality information and that this system simply works. I hope that this system has improved from those times when you were in the military or when I was in the military even though I have some information that this system when it comes to staff management has not yet been sufficiently professionalized and there are still enough and certainly too many different impulses actually leading to certain inconsistencies of strictly defined rules of development of each soldier in the armed forces or women soldiers. Therefore, I would really like this system to be further professionalised if possible, that it is being thrown at by more than it is in the years to come, in fact, by the focus only to be taken to that extent and as professionally as possible, to really minimalise as much as possible, and much more than today, all of the various other joints that were actually tailored by professional fates and soldiers and officers and officers in the Armed Forces. When it comes to the logistics system, this system of logistics, I will not, because of my profession, look at the health system at all, but the logistics system is important for every army and today it happens to us in the functioning of the Armed Forces in everyday work and the lives of the armed forces of many of these logistics, petty problems, dysfunction, failure to actually make certain very simple tasks work and, as I said, our projects of large amounts succeed, but many projects of small amounts fail. Military vehicles still have to pay toll problems, and often there is no money. So why do HV vehicles even pay tolls in the Republic of Croatia? So are these Croatian roads? This has already been discussed and mentioned, but really in this country the military, police and ambulances could not pass the Croatian highways because they have military, police and emergency plates? But the army can't. Well, then there's no money, and then they're driving the surrounding roads and then they're stuck with 500 boots, 100 belts, caps, tight materials, it's not directly your responsibility or your problem, but it's indirect anyway. And that's why I'd like to wish that out of this broad context we'd actually be dealing with content itself. Or when people wait for a particular paper, I don't know, application to health insurance for weeks, the soldier waits because the system slows down. That's how it was 10 years ago, unfortunately, today. In the very way of working or when someone sends a request to the MORH, it takes months to get some kind of written response, because the path of the documentation process through, first through the Armed Forces, then through the MORH is very, very slow. Something the minister was talking about, I suppose it will continue. I also wanted to mention one more thing. We had a phenomenon when there was a huge wave of cuts in the number of members of the Armed Forces that because they were declared unfit for military service, for military service, tens of thousands of members of the armed forces became pensioners, tens of thousands, I don't know exactly what the number is, but it's tens of thousands. These people when they were members, they didn't become completely incompetent. So, they were incapable of active military service, according to the regulations, actually it's either a rule or more healthy working people who were simply inoperable in the process of reducing the Armed Forces, we got tens of thousands of these people with relatively small pensions. On the other hand, while they were in the active military service, they had a whole series of restrictions. Bonded work experience as an easy environment which was more or less abolished with the majority of members, should not have been organised trade unionally. Unlike members of many armies, they were not allowed to make any extra money. So, as a soldier in the U.S. can work as a security guard in the afternoon or can earn something extra, a Croatian soldier can't in any form, so he's only sentenced to pay. The military service includes preparedness and physical preparedness and all in all. In the United States, when a soldier is no longer physically prepared and does not meet the criteria of physical readiness, he concludes military service. In Croatia, he retires, in a small pension, but a pension with which he must not work. Why? Mirina is small, he is able to work, but he must not make extra money and make extra money because otherwise he will have problems, of course with his pension, that is, there is some little limit to how much...... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] By contracting a section, who are you going to hire by contracting a section? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ha, occasional... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course it's completely uncompetitive in the labour market. So, I'm talking about those realities that happened to us, with a few dozen thousands of people who might be happy for you, you didn't fire them, that someone was thinking about going to see them do it in the United States, how they do it in the UK, how they do it in France, not inventing a Croatian model that was actually the least useful or the most total damage to this Croatian society. But unfortunately, that's how it is. Also when I was in the U.S. a number of years ago in their army, asking an old soldier, says, do you have a manual army, we had it then, I say we have, says mildly to you, I remember the time we had it too. And he says, do you run in boots? I said, 'We run, we run in boots then, he says, so you're a real army, and look, we run in tennis shoes. We no longer have boots, our soldiers, they have other shoes. So, what am I saying? We guard the army, save the army, the army was, and the rest of the power of that society that created this country. And it may take it next year, either five years or 20 years to defend it again, and let's not get as easily back together as we're making out things, and once we've broken it down, we won't be able to put it together again because we've been putting it together from that base that we already had ready in the 1990s. We had VES specials, we had people who finished training, today we don't have any more. Now, now or in 10 years, try to mobilize those who don't even know what an army is, weapons, or what a gun is, or what anything is. Who will mobilize them and in what way in case of need? Therefore, we also advocate that reflections on strengthening these reserves and these also be classified as other models. After all, to go back to the U.S. once again are full of commercials coming to the National Guard, you want to graduate college we'll pay you college. Well, that's hundreds of thousands of people tied to the US Army reserve unit system, that's what their strength rests on. And who comes to us from these two brigades that we have left? No one's coming because there's no one to come. So we're also working on the fact that even for these two brigades that are still left, there are a few thousand more who will take those positions and defend them, not that we really have an army that turns just and remains on these remaining 15 grand that we have planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95632	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Young Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95633	Thank you very much. Well, you still seem powerful enough for you to be behind these two brigades, but I hope you and your crew will never need it. I volunteered for the replica because of your beginning when you said the Croatian state wouldn't have been if there were no armed forces, but let's face it, there won't be any armed forces if they won't have anyone to finance them or if the state actually experiences our economy. Well, thank you very much, dear colleague. I'd appreciate it if you'd tell me that later. But that is why it is the same as the Croatian competition cluster of the defence industry and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce of Commerce of the producers of special purpose funds whose observations are included in this material. I also show the desire to involve this industry as much as possible regardless of what conversation we had and I believe that there are opportunities in one way or another to make this industry as involved. You also mentioned the renewal of the air force, I have the impression that my colleague Skurić misunderstood me, I did not say that I was against the renewal of the air force, but I said that I did not see from this what the ultimate goal is, or what the author of this one suggests. Are we going to go with air force recovery or not? I have to admit, I'm not quite clear on what direction you're going on about this. You mentioned some of the living issues of the day-to-day issues faced by members of the armed forces. Well remember there's not long we've talked about transporting personnel when one can get on the bus others can't, one eat with blue bons, the other with red, the other with oranges, that's the same problem those members face. We're another sentence. You mentioned retired members who have to survive with small pensions and are not allowed to work, unfortunately it's a black labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95634	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95635	So as far as I can read from at least what we can hear on the Defence Committee, there is a majority of representatives of the various political parties who support the fact that they retain the aviation capabilities of the Croatian Air Force. Of course, as far as I'm concerned, I'm always in it because I wouldn't be happy and satisfied that in 10 or 20 years in the collective defense system, the RS air space is being guarded by the MIGs of JNA, perhaps it would be acceptable for someone. I would not want it, and I would much prefer that Croatian aircraft be enough to help the air space protection system and neighbouring countries participate in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95636	Thank you. On behalf of Independent Representatives Club Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95637	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with an associate. My speech will not be as patriotic as my esteemed colleague, nor will he be so uniformed. I will start with the father of the philosophy of morality, the Socrates who rarely or say never wrote anything down, and it's always my defense, it's Socrates' defense or Vuksic's defense, he's always provoked questions. I'm not going to say anything this time, but I'm going to ask everything I don't understand. I understand the proposal for a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces but I do not understand the current situation in the Croatian Army, so I will ask some questions. I've spoken to some experts as a general-type politician, a general practice, and I've read what can be read by military analysts. The Croatian military said it was in worse shape, some generals of your colleagues, than it was in '95. The situation in the defense system is bad, and most of all because of the lack of money. We have heard this before and the replica and debate that the Croatian military lacks money. Of 790 or 800 military vehicles, some numbers may be old but are not too old to have armed forces in the meantime, some new vehicles for them are purchased 600, 700 more manufacturers do not exist. That means it's too old. If out of 11,000 people who have volunteered for a voluntary military service due to a financial restriction, more specifically poverty in the military, if 700 to 1000 have been admitted, the status of volunteers shows that we need to be concerned. Is this budget for 2015 or are they going to budget if this economic policy continues and I hope not, guaranteeing improvement in the Croatian Armed Forces? The condition of the technique, and as soon as we talk about the state of the technique, we are also talking about the state of security today because without the technique there is no security, requires an increase and this huge increase in the budget for the Armed Forces and this increase will not be. So I'm asking the minister how we're gonna deal with this situation. This is a wish list, how real it is, and how much it's like I said in the first line on solid legs. Let's talk about the readiness of the technique, if 50% of the armored vehicles are in condition, if it's 30 percent of the tanks, if it's in the state of the plane, I think we're clear on the state of the Armed Forces. Because today, with this modern technology and modern warfare, you can only rely on people who have always been exceptional in Croatian Armed Forces for sure that it is not good. How much would it cost to be technically prepared, can Croatia achieve satisfactory technical readiness in 10 years at the same time? There must be some plan of how many volunteers in the Armed Forces we need and how many techniques we need, which will be realised in the year in which we will be realized in those 10 years until the year 2024. If we go back to the state of the '90s when are we going to achieve the optimal state? And according to you, Mr. Minister, who is to blame for today's armed forces being technically in bad shape? Which is why if we want to advance the Armed Forces, there's always savings treated right on the Armed Forces. You know what, every time she's asked what she'd do, she says peace in the world so there won't be any more weapons and war. I am a pacifist rather than, far greater if not entirely pacifist than Mr. Djurovic, I would like to, too, but we live in such a world where it is impossible. So we're not going to act like mice. So that's why the state is responsible for the defense. In the Armed Forces, military analysts say that we have been rapidly dropping since 2005, is this decline stopped, if it is not when it will be and when growth will be achieved? And of course, when all of this is analysed, when the state of technology in the Armed Forces is analyzed, then the question of the sense of power is raised and the whole sense of defence is put in place. I read it shouldn't be true, but no one denied that gunners were without missiles because the old ones weren't maintained, it was a condition two years ago. Did we buy any new ones? And why is that allowed to say what we have not maintained? Is it just a question of poverty or is it a question not to worry? What about the moments, will they still fall like clay pigeons? What about the Croatian Air Force, what's going to happen? Can we even talk in the long run about some kind of development plan when that development is not even in sight? They won't, we should forget about NATO if someone attacks us. Because Article 3 provides for a commitment that NATO members can and must help themselves, so NATO will help us. But leaving the NATO defence to Croatia is not meant to be in a contract with NATO. So Croatia's defence will not be taken care of by NATO. We need to be alone with NATO. Many military analysts also say that experts are absolutely certain that at the moment there is no threat of an outside blow, there is no threat of aggression, there may be a threat of terrorism, as far as the Croatian Army is prepared to resist it. And in the end, will the defense money cut stop? It is absolutely certain that he cannot give the current minister, the respected Mr. Kotromanovic, the answer to that question because this is their last budget. In some future budget and how much money will be allocated for the defence of the Republic of Croatia or the Armed Forces will probably be given by another government. But I would pray that these questions are not difficult to try to answer and answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95638	Thank you. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vukšić, I think you have described the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a little black-grey tone, and at least it does not seem subjective to me, and perhaps it is objectively some of your settings. Namely, why do I say that? Because for the Republic of Croatia right now, and possibly in the future until this 2025, if nothing else threatens the war danger, perhaps a terrorist yes, but a war no. And secondly, in the situation in which we know, the other day we talked about the budget and the money we have, so in the distribution of money between the ministries, there is clearly the Ministry of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia's money as much as there is. I think that distribution and conditioned what the minister was talking about, 20,000 prepared soldiers, but also to be a war danger now imagine and compare the '90s. and '91. And in 2014, the state of the Croatian state that was just growing then and where we, as such and defend ourselves and freed our occupied areas from today. So incomparably, it's incomparably different situation and that's why I don't need to, I don't think I should, I don't think I would agree with you that the situation is as black in the Armed Forces as you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95640	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95641	Mr. Grubisic, they say that communication skills are listening, and I initially said that neither I know it, but it is probably only Minister Kotromanovic and those employees who work in the Croatian Army, that is a reflection of what I could read in the media, what I talked to people about. And I asked, I asked if, which is why I mentioned Socrates, Socrates was eventually sentenced to death, sentenced to death for asking questions, and so here you are talking about the black state. The black state was shown by others. To tell you the truth, I don't have much knowledge of it, except how much I have knowledge. We Assembly representatives do not receive any special reports so that on the basis of specific reports or secret or top secret knowledge of some of the things that happen in the Croatian Army. Oh, God, things are so much better. And when I was talking about it, I was also saying that we're not being threatened by some death outside, maybe terrorist and we're not talking about the situation in '91, this is a regular situation, this is a job, an army is also a solid, patriotic job in which we also have to plan, we need to allocate funds so that we don't end up having nothing. As we destroyed the industry in the '90s, we also neglected the technique in the Armed Forces. That's what experts say. If that's a lie the minister will deny, I'm just asking if that's the case so I'll probably get the answer and you'll get the answer, and whether it's black or not I don't know. Is it black, it takes 15,000 soldiers I'm not the expert who would say that 15 000 soldiers for Croatia are too little or too much or enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95642	Mr. Grubisic, they say that communication skills are listening, and I initially said that neither I know it, but it is probably only Minister Kotromanovic and those employees who work in the Croatian Army, that is a reflection of what I could read in the media, what I talked to people about. And I asked, I asked if, which is why I mentioned Socrates, Socrates was eventually sentenced to death, sentenced to death for asking questions, and so here you are talking about the black state. The black state was shown by others. To tell you the truth, I don't have much knowledge of it, except how much I have knowledge. We Assembly representatives do not receive any special reports so that on the basis of specific reports or secret or top secret knowledge of some of the things that happen in the Croatian Army. Oh, God, things are so much better. And when I was talking about it, I was also saying that we're not being threatened by some death outside, maybe terrorist and we're not talking about the situation in '91, this is a regular situation, this is a job, an army is also a solid, patriotic job in which we also have to plan, we need to allocate funds so that we don't end up having nothing. As we destroyed the industry in the '90s, we also neglected the technique in the Armed Forces. That's what experts say. If that's a lie the minister will deny, I'm just asking if that's the case so I'll probably get the answer and you'll get the answer, and whether it's black or not I don't know. Is it black, it takes 15,000 soldiers I'm not the expert who would say that 15 000 soldiers for Croatia are too little or too much or enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear assistant minister, colleague and colleague. Immediately at the beginning, they will say that the HDZ club will support the proposal for a long-term development plan for the Croatian Armed Forces for the period from 2015 to 2024. It is a document of strategic importance for the defence and security of the Republic of Croatia, but also a document that defines the overall development of the Armed Forces in the next 10-year period, their size, equipment, development priorities, organisational structure and all those objectives that are to be achieved. The fact is that there have been significant changes in the strategic position of the Republic of Croatia since the adoption of the Long-term Development Plan for the period 2006 to 2015. In 2009, the Republic of Croatia joined and became a full member of NATO, and in 2013, the European Union achieved key national goals. This has led to stable and long-term perspective security in the context of existing strategic circumstances, there is virtually no danger of direct armed aggression in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but in the context of potential regional threats, the possibility of armed conflicts in the region and the indirect exposure of the Republic of Croatia to the consequences of such conflicts, as well as the possibility of exposure of the Republic of Croatia to non-traditional threats such as international terrorism, cross-border organised crime, cyber attacks, etc. All of this, of course, has had an important impact on the development of the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces for the period from 2015 to 2024. We believe that the proposal for a long-term plan is realistic when it comes to the key long-term objectives of the development of the Armed Forces, the priorities of development and investment in all three tribes of the Armed Forces and the development of human potentials. About the reality of the long-term development plan when it comes to finance, I'll say something later. The objectives set also seem realistic when it comes to the target size of staff, the corresponding structure of staff and the staff management process itself. We also support the development of the proposed concept of reserve development through all three forms and contractual reserve of up to 1000 members, as well as the classification of up to 20,000 members, as well as the non-classified, as the basis for the rise of the Armed Forces in the event of a direct war conflict. We also support the reform and transformation of high military education that has already begun and will take place in three stages, which is the basis of the expertise and professionality of the officer's staff. When it comes to equipment and modernisation projects, they are well-defined, but it is a question of whether realisation deadlines are realistic. Thus, by 2017, the Land Army should complete a combat armored vehicle project, a self-vehicle artillery system from 2017 to 2020, the modernisation of tanks by 2024, a new transmission anti-arming system until 2024. The Croatian Navy should have coastal patrol ships by 2017, a modernised radar system by 2017, two mine hunters by 2020, and new anti-ship rockets by 2024. With regard to the Croatian Air Force, the proposal for a long-term development plan provides that a decision must be made by the end of 2016 to retain or abandon the capacity of independent airspace protection. The Croatian Democratic Community club believes that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia need and must maintain this capacity independently or in a multinational variant. What is problematic for us at the HDZ Club, and it is essential for the implementation of the long-term development plan is finance. The document says that the long-term development plan is realistic and provides for the necessary funds of 48 billion kuna over the next ten years which, according to our assessment, is not realistic and will need to provide significantly higher funds than 48 billion kuna. 48 billion kuna could almost be secured with the current budget of the Ministry of Defence which, therefore, is about 4 billion and 200 million kuna. So it's $42 billion if he stays that way for the next ten years. We are particularly concerned about the constant reduction of the defence budget, which is lower than the 2011 budget by just over 800 million kuna. So the 2014 budget is less for 800 million kuna than it was for the 2011 budget. It is for a country like Croatia huge money. That's over 100 million euros. This would be a serious lack of funds for a much stronger and more powerful army, not to say state than Croatia. And during this four-year period, the MORH budget will be lower by more than 2 billion kuna, assuming it remained at the 2011 level. It's the biggest real problem of Morh. This is the real biggest problem of the Armed Forces, and this issue, or problem, will also put into question this long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. The constant and decline in the percentage of the defence budget compared to GDP and far from the declared 2% of the defence allocation compared to GDP. He's somewhere now around 1.36, seven, he used to be almost 1.6 not in so long ago. That the paper and plans of all things suffer or that the wishes are one thing, and the possibilities are the second best example of the current long-term development plan, which envisioned that the defence budget in 2012 would be at almost 7 and a half billion kuna, and was achieved with less than 5 billion kuna. So it's achieved with me as 4.8 billion kuna. So nearly 3 billion kunas less than forecasts. Also, planning needs as much as possible to be a realistic good indicator is also currently a valid DPR and the envisaged projection of the equipment of the Armed Forces and its execution, and the plan was intended to spend 2.6 billion kunas in modernising and equipping the Armed Forces, and only 866 million kunas were spent. So, a billion and 800 kunas less than this was foreseen by the long-term plan currently in force. A particular part of the problem is the very structure of the budget where, at present, wages and material costs, i.e. on the cold drive, more than 60% of the defence budget, which is unsustainable in the long term, and it is necessary to change the structure of the budget in order for a significant part of the funds to go to equipment and modernisation. We are therefore once again warning of the necessity of real planning and costs, but I am particularly undermining this responsibility above all from the Government and the Parliament that adopt these and similar plans and then, when budgeting, do not provide sufficient resources for their implementation. So, we adopt plans, it's all good on paper, and when the state budget is adopted, then we don't worry about what we've adopted, and in some ways we've committed ourselves through the adoption of plans and programmes. We therefore support the intention to discuss each year the Special Chapter Defence Report and the annual implementation of the Long-term Development Plan as well as the intention to revise the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces every three years. When it comes to national security and defence, it is necessary to achieve the political and social consensus of all factors in ensuring the necessary means to implement the plans and programmes. Investment in defence and security cannot and must not be treated exclusively as a cost but as an investment in the security of both the communities and each individual in the community. And we all know security doesn't have a price. As I said, we will support this long-term plan with yet another special emphasis that we are very skeptical about the financial part of the plan that costs will be much more than 48 billion as foreseen in this 10-year period, and that the collateral in the state budget will not be at that level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95644	Thank you, too. And final address, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95645	Thank you very much to all the representatives who participated in the debate, who discussed and discussed the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. I'll answer a few questions, a few comments very gladly. It's my end and my job. That's what I get paid for. First of all, I want to say that it is absolutely important that you understand the long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces, what Tomislav Ivić commented on, is important and important. I'm glad that he touched that DPR old where you just saw that unrealistically and overly ambitiously set I wouldn't say a plan by the Ministry of Defense but at that point the finances were supposed to be more real and say ok some things we'll be able to do in one period, some things we won't. Our continuing budget drop from 2009, 2009 was 5 billion and 400, let's say before 2008 to 2009, has already fallen by 600, 700 million kuna to fall from 2012 to today for this figure we just heard. So that's our reality and we need to be aware of the times we live in and what we do. Of course, as Minister now I would like to have more resources for the defence budget, it has no doubt at all, and I wish we could have that somehow 100 million kuna more, but we've shown in the last 3 years that we can use the resources we have available, even once I said, I'm not sure if it was Linic or Lalovac you can't take as much funds as we can rationally manage the funds and start new projects. And that's what we did. We're real, I'm not going to burden you with things in three years as far as we're on irrelevant items and let's just say on the supply we're saving. As soon as we get the competition into the purchase, we cut costs. I'll just say for a coastal ship... an example works. On the engines, the five engines needed for the coastal patrol ship we will save, we have saved 5.5m euros. Why? We've introduced competition. We just introduced that another type of engine can compete. As soon as the people who represented and sold that engine heard it, and someone put it before, I don't know who it was that didn't matter through development, through study, and through the project that only one engine could go into that ship. As soon as we said we wanted to, and the second price fell by a million and $100,000 per engine. That's what we did. So the responsible management really where we turned off all the splinters we could see that were unnecessary, which were used for what actually didn't take care of those funds we started a series of construction projects, a series of equipment projects and, unfortunately, I would like to have several hundred million kunas more on my account at the Department of Defense so that we could run another series of projects that we can't do so far. And there's no doubt about it, and that's very clear, I want to make it very clear to everyone. We will continue to behave responsibly, at least while I am here on financial resources, and we will follow that every kuna and every item we analyze multiple times a year, we follow all projects annually, we analyze projects, we monthly follow projects that are of value and we are looking at what stage they are in and how it is going, and in this way we are trying to really have this clear picture of what happens to finance in the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. The logistics system, we started a reform, first we had to change the rule of material care. Ambition was last year to make it this year and we made it. He should start from 1.01 next year in realisation. A very complex document, I admit here as defence minister, I can't speak competently about it, it's a document involving both finance and logistics and IT, which is why it's very complex. But we are, we are going to reform the logistics system. Today we have over 500 warehouses that we need to reduce to a few hundred, import IT to be able to monitor the system in the best possible way. And here we are alive interested in doing something, to reduce it all together, and to have a clearer picture and a tied image of the very system of logistics system within the Armed Forces. We have enough boots, uniforms for our needs and we regularly buy them in Croatia here. And every year since I've been here, we've brought together all military equipment manufacturers, and that's how we're going to do next year and sign an agreement with them and buy what's needed, which is what the military needs, which is how much they need at the annual level. That's where I think I didn't hear we had that problem. Staff management, I'm not happy until the end of course, but I wasn't happy, now we've made a certain step, we've made a miniature reform. We want to have transparent staff reception, transparent staff promotion and transparent separation. That's the kind of word that's been used in the Armed Forces system for a long time. As far as staff reception is concerned, we received 800 young soldiers from the 1.11. but in the competition this year. No, there's no way anyone's taking this soldier to me now, or I don't know when it's military service. There's a rule book, there's a system of points, there's checks, and we're just that, whatever we could do, we're tight and we're trying to be as transparent as possible. When it comes to military reception, it's also very important and important because it's employed people, we've tested some soldiers twice, we've tested them so they can become active military personnel and we're doing a lot with the Armed Forces to get this transparency to as much as possible to that optimal level. Promoting, of course, there were always things that were somehow missed and where we were trying to make it more transparent than before. What have we done now? We made a rule about the score. So we can't every year, not that the military can't satisfy and promote all those people who have terms. We may have 1,000 people for the promotion this year but we don't have that, we don't have that option, we don't have... a place for them where we put them, we can't put them, if we move them more up, we give him an act that doesn't meet the conditions, the criteria, and the places he's in. So we're going to be promoting about half of what it has to do, but we've made a rule about the score in a way that the military did, not even the Ministry of Defense, but the army, the profession. They said okay, so there's a Homeland War, operations, English language, schools, courses all over the place, so it has a wide range of things worth. In the end, let's say that when it comes to going to the colonel's major, only someone in the ministry needs to be squeezed on the inside and he throws out all the majors in a way that has the most points that will be promoted for that year. We'll only have one staff committee next year, the staff board in the third month, and we'll settle it for the whole year. And on each board, every bay will know who will go from sergeant to senior officer, from lieutenant to lieutenant, or from captain to major, etc. So we try to be transparent here and we have to work a lot, and now we do more seminars a year to manage the staff, to bring it to a level that pleases us all together. So we have these desires, but we have to go on. So we've launched certain reforms, certain processes, and I hope now, that the future government, anyone and any future minister who comes will just continue and maybe bring some new ideas into the system. What are we doing? We'll call next week from Microsoft experts to tell us how staff management is done. We have one course at the ministry and headquarters, so we're trying from other segments of society from private companies to see how we're doing to raise it to a higher level. And we really want to do something about it in the system. As for Mr Vukusic, we will not, of course, condemn you to death on a matter, thank you for all questions, for every question we keep him absolutely well-intentioned and I have seen from your exposure that you want the Armed Forces, that the military be better, stronger, faster I would say and more effectively. You don't need to worry about the Armed Forces. It's hard to compete with 91s or 95s. In 95, I was the commander of the brigade or the commander... three brigades, it's impossible, an army of 200 thousand people and the time that was then it was completely different, I mean it's simply that we can't have a big army, we can't have that big army, we can't have NATO, so for years it's telling us to cut down, cut down, shrink down because we don't have needs. We are a NATO member and we interpret that Article 5 is important, and Article 5 obliges all NATO member states in the event of a war in the Republic of Croatia that everyone must be involved. We thus interpret it as Article 5 binding, we see no threat now, here in the neighborhood and beyond that could endanger the Republic of Croatia, we do not see it and we have written it all in the long-term development plan and it is all clear in that sense. So we need to have more understanding for the army, why? We're 25 years old as an army, now imagine Denmark, which is other than World War II, it has some kind of trauma in terms of disunited forces, so they have problems with trucks too, having problems like Germany today when we speak and their situation in aviation is 30% of the fleet is on the ground. A few months ago, we went to the Chief of Staff and I to Greece, and Greece bought 6... these are transport planes big, 7 of them are the right ones, and they sent for us. They're angry at Italy because they're new transport planes, they'll always be, they're such systems that it's incompetent... to pass once and for all a day, sometimes an hour. We have a problem with trucks, of course, because they're old trucks, that's what I asked for. You can't develop an army in 25 years, you can't bring it to that level so it can be completely modernised. Who's gonna give the money? Who wouldn't give, which the government wouldn't now, any government former through history and in the future wouldn't give a billion, two kunas more if it had the needs of the Armed Forces. I think we'd all give it, we're all aware that this is an important part of society, that we should have an army, but we need to be realistic, we need to develop our Armed Forces step by step,...a couple of developments is one step that I think is possible and feasible, whether it will be realistic in 3.4 years that we'll see of course, we don't know what the finances are going to be. We must try to make sure that, together he says we have understanding of our needs, for our real needs, and the Ministry of Defense has to really optimally examine each kuna, look and spend it where it is most needed. You asked me who was responsible for the old technique? I think I can point a finger at anyone now. If you were the Prime Minister now or you might be Prime Minister tomorrow or Minister, they're hard to do, you asked as you said the general question, I can't point a finger and say someone was guilty because they had an old technique. We bought that technique at a time when we were under the embargo and from the embargo until 2014, you know how many years it's been? Very little, very little, it wasn't easy that period. And we have to have patience regardless of what this technique is, the trucks are old, we're already, we're starting again with the Department of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany buying a large part of the truck for our needs and the real needs of ours are now 1,000 new trucks, but we can't do that, but we'll talk to our partners, and let's say in the long run that whoever agrees to try to do something for the economy, that something is doing with us and that we have benefits and as a ministry. We'll see about that. He says you've said a rapid decline since 2005, I didn't mean, I don't know what "rapid drop" means as a number of people or resources? That's right. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. What's important is that we stop... we've now managed to stop the budget this year at the levels that it is, we've ensured that... the funds of surplus weapons, training, real estate that are still available to the MORH, that this will be our income and that, if we succeed, it is now up to us to ask how much we are able to sell one real estate next year, transparently, publicly and that these funds... The Ministry of Defence, and to improve living and working conditions, buy some new assets, develop the domestic industry through this purchase, etc., etc. Ours, as far as I'm concerned, is all clear... about aviation, we said, next year we'll form the most professional team of people. We can't say which type of plane we're going to put together in, that would mean we don't respect the Public Procurement Act, if anything. So we'll see, we'll do a good analysis, a good study of the most competent people in Croatia, former officers, or retired officers, current officers, they're the most competent, we'll see, we'll examine all the markets, we'll see if we can do something multinationally, means we have some common... and we have next year to decide what we want. So, this will require additional funds plus these 48 billion kunas do not include aircraft, so we need additional funds to develop and equip Croatian Air Force and my view is also that we need to keep this ability, because once we shut it down, it is very difficult to develop and lift ourselves literally from the ashes. And we will try to find the best, most optimal solution in the interests of the Republic of Croatia because it is a question of the Republic of Croatia, the defence is a question of the Republic of Croatia and it is important to highlight it. It's always a question of how realistic the plan is, every plan is a plan, we call it a long-term development plan. It's hard to say, yes, this is the most real plan we've ever made. It's hard, we can't know what's going to happen on the world market next year and two years behind. We've seen the oil drop now, going down hard. How it can affect all of us, we don't know. So we were trying to make the plan as real as possible. Maybe it even needs to be a little bit more ambitious, whether or not, we're the resources we're planning and the projects we're thinking about finishing, we have the resources for that. So, combat armored vehicle by 2017, top 30 millimeters, we wait, here, we're late, why? Because we're waiting for Djuru Djakovic to develop an antidote so we'd rather buy it with them than shop outside. Well, logically, I'm saying it out loud here, so let's let everyone make a note of it if they think I'm wrong. So, we on the funds, these projects that we have through Croatia... the military, I don't know, we have already provided resources and we have enough resources to... all the projects that we, I don't know,... the artillery system, we've already paid the Germans, we're revising the tanks, we're doing a tank revision, modernization we're looking for a strategic partner, we're going to see who we're going to take because there are over 2,000 tanks in the world T-72, and that's an opportunity to say that maybe even on that market something of our company is giving ourselves some new income. I'm not going through all of this now, through all of these projects, so for everyone we think we have the resources, if we keep the budget like this, except for new planes. We'll see now, of course, that's the plan. I especially want to point out the helicopters yet, so, I don't know, we're here to raise one piece of the money from the sale of the eights, there's a question for them. We remount them and modernise them, remount them. The value should be $5 to $6 million apiece. From these funds and from the help we're going to get from the United States, we're going to go to another type of helicopter, so let's say maybe I'm not... clear in terms of the end of the financial items. That's it. I mean, we're gonna fight for a long-term plan... force, so we put that every year in the annual report we have to say from the ministry what we've done according to it, so how much we've done these things, at which stage, it's going to be interesting to follow, it's for the first time we've tied ourselves up to inform you. What I'm saying is that we have nothing to hide. That we want to be completely transparent on all matters at the Ministry of Defence and any of you for any inquiry if you want to hear, if you want to know anything, we are open here, we want to, we think that the Ministry of Defence is not a matter of one policy or one party but that's a matter, that's the interest of the Republic and each of your suggestions, each of your suggestions is welcome to us because, as we say in Dalmatia and another opinion and another attitude and another proposal are always smarter than the one that already stands. We will fight for this long-term development plan to be sustainable, to be stable and, of course, to future governments is to secure these funds, the minimum resources that we think are enough for a good start and development of the Armed Forces, and then hopefully the economy will grow there after 2018, then we can also think about a bigger issue for the Ministry of Defence itself. Once again, thank you all, this is a very important document for us. We will work on it, we will inform the Croatian Parliament about what we have done and we will try to make sure that these funds are really transparently spent. In addition to that and tomorrow I call whoever wants to come, we have a procurement plan, for the third year of the procurement plan we present... for corruption, the Defence Committee,..., the press, we have nothing to hide here. So, all the procedures that go, you can see exactly what procedure the article is going through and we don't have what we're hiding. We want to be transparent and we want to involve as many people as possible in the system of thinking and making decisions of the Ministry of Defence, primarily here and Parliament, and because you are very interested in our Armed Forces being, what our wish is, small yes, but ready to accept the blow and ready to fight back fiercely. As a former soldier, I know what I'm talking about, and you don't need to worry, they're not poor. I don't know why they were poor we had 126 of those... we introduced a new rifle. I mean, we have a series of things of new elements where we introduce ourselves and where we modernize and where we're at the level of other middle countries that you're talking about, I don't know anyone was talking about Slovakia or such examples. Thank you so much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95646	Thank you, Minister. Moving to replicas, Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, no one is against savings and rationalization, though, but it has its limits as well. I personally believe that the system is overstretched and that the question of what will be the consequences after several years of cutting the state budget, is that. That's why the cost structure is so unfavourable that almost 70% of the cost is paid and material costs, and a small part goes for the modernisation and equipment of the armed forces. If we want to, and I think we all in this high home want to have one modern, well-equipped, mobile and operational army we will have to admit it or not provide much more resources in the state budget than we are now ensuring. We're one of the few countries where the MUP has a bigger budget than the MORH, police have a bigger budget than the military. Not to mention how many more cops we have than soldiers. I'm not saying that at this point and it's not okay, but in the long run it can't survive that way and it's my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95648	Thank you. Would you like to speak to the Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95649	I will. I understood completely of course. We now stand out about 61% with peace missions and our goal by 2017 is to reduce in the projection by up to 33% of the staff, we try to keep it as far under control as possible. And I agree, we need more funding system is overcrowded with various projects that we need to realize, but that's the only way we can function in these three years and start new projects to be rational, nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95650	Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95651	Thank you. So I hope that next year after seven loud years and changes in government will come about about seven years, that's how it's going to work, so with GDP growth then if it's finally going to happen, I guess the budget for the MORH will grow. I'm not really an expert at anything about aviation, but it seems to me that the only time it's going to be is if there's not going to be a new plane getting some used-up like this deal with this guy with some of his friends, I don't think any other arrangements will actually be possible when they even start this whole year. I wanted to say one more thing when it comes to armed forces and staff management when you mention the criteria and progress problems, you are not the Chief of Staff, but I think that what should be marked by armed forces, marking the armed forces of all NATO member states, that is certainly also the physical readiness, and that there is certainly additional space for the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to be much more insistent on that element. I don't know if or how many chief of staff one of them has met the criteria of physical readiness so far, and I'm sure none of the commanders of the headquarters of any of the tribes in the U.S. Army could have been if he didn't meet the criteria of that physical readiness. Therefore, these criteria are clearly defined and the fundamental thing is that every soldier from one who enters the system to one who is the Chief of Staff to meet those criteria. And I hope that you will insist more that these criteria which do not meet them cannot be in the system, should not bring an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95652	Thank you. Replication response, Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95653	I fully support it. I'm a high-ranking officer because I'm a former high-ranking officer, and with all the problems I have with my health, I'm trying to be fit. We had a high-ranking check last Thursday at the... check-in led by the Chief of Staff for the first time. Most of them passed because they knew that now it affects us we put it in the rulebook, the one who won't pass physical checks doesn't... he's gone, there's no conditions for an act and he's gonna have to wait. So we fixed that status, I don't know who went through, who didn't, but I know most of them passed because they've been training for the last two months. Last year we said okay come out it's the first step, this year they have to, they all came out, they took the bus from Zagreb downstairs and it was organized. I've even sent surveillance, I've sent the Chief Inspector to see how it's organized and we're working on it because we think that a soldier who hasn't passed a physical check I completely understand, I if I had these opportunities I'm trying to be very strict here, I would at the same time single it out of the system because I think it's a shame for him. In some NATO countries, he does not have special preparations, it is as if he has to know how to write and we have to get to that level, but first we go a little harder and people will already become aware and learn to care for their health, their body, and their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95654	Thank you. Replica, Tinker Millas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's through your presentation that you've brought to the end you've almost asked me to withdraw the replica, but you mentioned Germany and their aviation problem. Well, in that sense, I would like to point out once more, one Germany, so as far as I know, Hungary and many other richer countries have a problem with aviation. And I don't understand why we're raising that airline to such a big name anymore. I'm aware that we can't lose the tradition of aviation, so we can't lose flying because once you lose it, we'll never be able to rebuild it again. But why are we running away from the fact that we as a country will not have financial opportunities so that we can protect our airspace in quality and why we no longer make a decision, of course, in a broad consensus with everyone who needs to go from profession to politics and everything else where we can make some kind of multinational story of the countries in the environment that are members of the European Union. Where we can truly both sovereignly and wisely and in line with the financial opportunities that a state like Croatia can bear made protection of airspace. I think why don't we approach more adoption, you said that we have to do it by 2016 or so, but I don't think we should waste any more time, that we should bring it out and give it to the public as soon as possible. We will lose neither sovereignty nor anything else. For everything there is a model just needs a good consensus, a good model and everything can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95656	Thank you. And the last line, Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95657	Dear Minister, when I was talking about whether or not, I wanted to ask, in fact, we may not have understood each other. Could this money we had make more? But you gave me the answer, it could have. You said you saved millions of dollars on the bikes, on one engine, as far as I could tell. So that's how rational things used to be, there could be a lot more to it. You say some vehicles are 20 years old, 15 years old as they were getting. If they were regularly renewed, serviced, that about them, that's what I'm about, I wanted to ask if it could, it couldn't, you said it couldn't. I think you can do anything. It's like having a fine house run, if you don't want to paint a ceiling for 20 years it'll collapse on your head, not only will it be ugly. So I was talking about household behavior. To tell you the truth, I'm, I'm close to pacifism, and I'd end all the armies if I could in the world, not just ours, normally not only ours, but when we have an army and we have to have an army then, in this order of what you were saying, and when I was talking about the human condition I was talking about because that's what all the experts are saying in superlatives. When I talk, I talk about tech, it means tech. So I'm not questioning the ability and those who run the army, the soldiers themselves, I think that's a good deal on those analyses. So I can only trust what I've read and what I've heard. So that's all it means... You said we didn't know, what he said before, we have to make up our mind once, first of all, what planes, you said the Public Procurement Act. You know that public procurement laws are often circuses, often circuses, if Croatia needs such and such planes, then it also needs such planes. Either as counterpart Milas said or we will agree with our friendly countries on a common defence of the airspace of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95658	Thank you. This is what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the minister with the assistant. We'll be done with work for the day. Tomorrow I'd like to announce four points we'll be doing tomorrow. So that's item number seven from the proposed agenda, number 9, number 10 and point 13. Good-bye to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-09-0.u95659	Proposal for a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015 to 2024. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a long-term plan and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes for the long-term development plan adopted by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015-2024, the text proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs. Today's situation marks the 15th anniversary of the death of the first president of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman, so I ask that we remember and honor the first president of the Republic of Croatia for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence - May it be eternal glory and thanks! - I don't know.
