ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64362	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day and we'll continue our discussion. We will discuss - The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012; The report was submitted by the Croatian Olympic Committee. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. Comrade Kresimir Bubalo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64363	Thank you very much, Vice President. Namely, on behalf of the HDSSB club, I am looking for a break because HZ passenger transport lifts the lines towards Slavonia and Baranja, especially towards Osijek and it is high time to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament. Slavonia and Baranja are getting cut off. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64364	A fellow Shuker?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64365	For the same reason, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64366	A wolf?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64367	Same reason the Labour Club is looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64368	I'm setting a break until 9:00.44. It's 9:00.32. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64370	Thank you, well-respected vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues, the HDSSB Club has requested a break for new savings in HZ, and it is the one that breaks across the back of the citizens and the city of Osijek, as well as Slavonia and Baranja. These days, we have received information through the media to remove numerous lines towards Slavonia and Baranja, especially towards Osijek. It was probably estimated in HZ that HZ passenger transport would be silent in Osijek because the HDZ and SDP coalition is in the city of Osijek, so they probably have to keep quiet, but HDSSB will not be silent because many students and also workers go to Zagreb and their belly after bread but also for the need to study. But often looking at messages coming from HZ, which is that through European funds, railways will be restored, new kilometres of networks being edited, while individual lines are being cut. It is certainly a limiting factor especially during the weekend, at the time of the holiday when people want to return from Zagreb to Osijek, visit their families and the nearest, although every day there is less money and less money, but it is not a reason to break the lines towards Slavonia and Baranja. And then we will say there are extra people again in HZ, there is no shortage of lines towards Slavonia and Baranja and we have all witnessed the recent suspension of the line and towards Budapest and Hungary even though a large number of Hungarians live in the area especially Baranja, as well as Slavonia and Baranja. We often look at information, but when we compare ourselves with other regions and according to capital donations to Slavonia and Baranja, then it is obvious that Slavonia and Baranja do not receive funds. This is the final blow to Slavonia and Baranja. Slavonia and Baranja is sinking into isolation and I demand that Minister Siniša Hajdaš Dončić appear in the Croatian Parliament because he has just signed a contract with HZ passenger transport, it is a temporary contract for 2014 with services of general economic interest in public rail transport and that is precisely the interest, interest of the Republic of Croatia and it must be both security and accuracy and productivity and quality of service. What's it worth if these contracts are signed and you don't have a service called transport to Slavonia and Baranja, transport and we know that European directives are just going towards the fact that the basic form of transport is exactly rail transport, but Croatia doesn't seem to respect that directive either. We are looking for one debate in which we would also point to what is happening in HZ with special reference to this problem that is being expressed for all those who want to connect from Slavonia and Baranja to Zagreb, Zagreb is very important to us both because of the workers and the students, but this message will not stop the emigration of people from Slavonia and Baranja who are looking for a line from Osijek to Zagreb to fly either to Norway or to Canada and to some other country. Therefore, with the reduction of capital giving, with the disappearance of Slavonia and Baranja from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as with this final blow to the abolition of the lines, it is certain that it is a bell at the alert for all of us living in Slavonia and Baranja in relation to one of the motherly relations of this government but also HZ but also the resolute Minister Siniš Hajdaš Doncic, who should also be respected by European regulations, which should provide the possibility for all parts of the Republic to be connected in one quality way. This is likely to please some who deal with bus transport that is more expensive for us Slavons and Baranjce than rail transport, and it is known that rail transport is cheaper and also more accessible to our citizens who live in indifference. It is therefore our request that these lines be not abolished until a thorough debate in the Croatian Parliament, and I do not think that we have anything to wait for because HH makes mistakes especially in relation to Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64371	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64372	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You see what happens when a large system is restructured and you don't ask those who use that system. You can think of what will happen after monetizing the highway when it comes to the eyes of the public, when you don't care about those who use that system and when you don't care about tradition. You can't lift one rail and say, it's not worth it and goodbye, but if someone uses that rail to go to work, to go to school, to go to a doctor, then someone who behaves government at state level has to make sure that the subsidized other carrier that will carry it doesn't matter at all which one. And as for this political subjugation, I would just like to say that colleague Ivica Kirin, Mayor of Virovitica, on behalf of the HDZ and all HDZ and all the people in Slavonia, expressed his opinion yesterday, in fact, the day before yesterday of his disagreement with what happens to the railways in Slavonia, just so much. And I don't think that this topic is political at all not to be seen as belonging, actually the responsibility of those who act in power but those who fight for something but simply it's something that the citizens of Slavonia shouldn't have done in this way. However, as far as HZ is concerned, the HDZ Club warns of problems that will happen with HZ from the moment the state budget reduces the HZ's position by over a billion and 100, billion and 200 million kuna, and this is something that is only due to what is happening. So take just for example, the Ploce-Metkovic railway was restored somewhere around 30 million euros were spent and then after these 30 million euros spent, someone remembered and abolished a practically complete line from Ploč via Metkovic. Then the question arises who gave the order to rebuild the track and why was it renewed if the transport was lifted? But colleagues and colleagues need to look at this in the context of what is happening. Croatia has received two large pucks, slaps, whatever you want from international institutions. Some day from Brussels because Brussels did not see in the government budget rebalancing proposal something that is long-term, which would guarantee the stability of public finances, and also the IMF saw after 2 months and realized that all those stories he had heard about Zagreb had nothing to do with reality, and that may be the most dramatic change in economic growth projections, i.e. A fall in the Republic of Croatia in the last 3.4 years has been made by an international financial institution. And why am I saying that? So I'm talking for the simple reason that these HZ-oriented coins are reduced because it would appear that this government has reduced the deficit because if you reduce HH funding by a billion and 100 million kuna in 2012, at the same time you give 2 billion guarantees that you do not display as a cost but only as a guarantee, then it clearly says that you don't know what you're going to do. We can add to that story about HZ-Carg, failed privatisation and everything that's been going on. It just proves, what I said at the beginning that in such large projects, restructuring of such large systems cannot go overnight, cannot go without quality analytical bases and above all cannot go without an assessment and an assessment of how the citizens who used these services will come to these services tomorrow and who will be able to provide them. Because if the government has decided to abolish these lines, that they will simply disappear, then the government must also reroute some of the money for alternative transport. How he will be, who he will be, it is irrelevant, however, that all citizens, not only of Slavonia, have railways in Dalmatia, but also in Lica and Zagorje that are being abolished, so the government must ensure that these people get adequate transportation and that they do not pay him anymore because someone is abolishing one activity in which he is a 100% owner, because that activity creates minuses and thinks that with another activity and in a different way it will be done more efficiently, better and cheaper, must not be guessed, it must not fall on the burden of Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, these railways are removed precisely in areas where income per capita in the Republic of Croatia is the lowest and perhaps the biggest and worst thing in all together, while HZ where they might have, could have a very cost-effective line, which is the city railway towards Velika Gorica and according to Zapresic, does not introduce them, so... Thank you very much. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64373	Thank you very much. On behalf of Croatian Labour Party, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64374	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if anyone from this booth has warned about the state of HZ and what's going to happen, then I believe it's me. I've probably been boring with some of them before. However, I will now remind you of a detail of not so long ago when I warned about crime, and crime is if HZ passenger transport gives a contract to rent its locomotive to a private who will carry the load, means it creates competition within the HZ system and now this same HZ passenger transport lifts trains. So there's nothing to drive with or no interest. In my opinion, this is knowingly destroying and knowingly destroying the inside. But interestingly, everything that's in the system of Minister Hajdas Doncic, everything is suspicious, everywhere you smell that we can't prove, but there's someone who should be dealing with it and I've already called DORH and USKOK on several occasions to get into that system, to check what's going on there. Why is it possible that these HHL locomotives of passenger transport that are now removing trains are assigned to one privateer for use? It's not normal for me. At the same time, if you remember your timely member of the HZ passenger transport administration has made such a slurry statement, he will be renting as much motor furniture as he needs. So where are they going to rent them? Well, it's not a kilo of bread to go to some store and take, if it's not in this one, you go to another store. Now it's turned out to be none of that. The latest information that Gredelj has fallen out of the story of new trains, according to the bankruptcy manager, Mr. Krkac. Yesterday we had a chance to watch Gredell workers related to what's going to happen now, we don't have an answer. A colleague, Bubalo, said at the beginning that he was looking for a debate at the Croatian Assembly about the state of HZ and all that is happening in Minister Hajdas Doncic's portfolio. I fully support that idea. When he's not coming, for two and a half years he's not coming to the board meeting, the the thematic session of the board is not possible for a man to appear, he's unworthy, it's out of humiliation to talk to parliamentary deputies. Let him at least appear here, let him give us some explanation, let him inform the Croatian public, if his humiliation is to address the Croatian Parliament. There is a question of responsibility for all administrations and one that, not long ago, has been removed in HZ-Carg by the same Hajdash Doncic, but what happened? People were removed, they made millions of losses, and nothing. Nothing at all. We remember when the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament spoke here, Mr. Stazic spoke, no, no, the ministers will be responsible for the people they set up, if these people sin, the minister leaves. What's up with that now? Where is this political responsibility now? She's gone. Today, examples of the railway that is being reconstructed and the traffic on which it is being broken down are also mentioned. But look, it's one absurd thing, and here's my colleagues talking about Slavonia. I'm going to mention the Knin-Zadar railway, now it's going into reconstruction. A decision has been taken to abolish freight transport, a decision has been taken to abolish passenger transport. So why don't you explain to me who's making these decisions, then we're going to reconstruct the track on which both national carriers made the decision not to drive again? Well, isn't that someone crazy? Since the next item of the agenda refers to Minister Jovanovic, or from his portfolio, I will now paraphrasise him: if there is somewhere to dry the swamp, then it is in Minister Hajdas Doncic's portfolio, and mainly in the Croatian Railways system. And I think he'd have a complete composition of both USCOCK and DORH, a whole year to deal with and what to do. Unfortunately, given the state we live in, they have work to do everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u64375	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, through these breaks, we are opening up serious issues and a serious problem. A colleague, Bubalo, asked for a debate on this subject, so I refer you to our Rules of Procedure to propose how the Rules of Procedure says to discuss this matter so that we can get adequate materials and that all MPs can participate in this. So, if you're looking for a debate on the state of the railway, suggest it according to our Rules of Procedure. And now we will continue to work on the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. The opening statement will be submitted by the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr Zlatko Mateša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76987	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs before you is the 2012 Croatian Olympic Committee's programme and financial report. The introduction should highlight the character of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The Croatian Olympic Committee to remind you is an association that operates on the basis of two very important components, one is the Olympic Charter and membership of the International Olympic Committee, the second is the Croatian Legislative Framework under which the Croatian Olympic Committee is the highest NGO, the most non-governmental body in sport. The authorities leading the Croatian Olympic Committee are its Assembly, the Supervisory Board, the Council, four vice-presidents and twelve members, meaning all together seventeen members of the Council, and I would like to make it very clear that none of those members of the Assembly, the Council, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Olympic Committee have ever received any compensation for their work before. So it's about pure volunteers. As far as the report itself is concerned, it is divided into several important components. I'd just not waste your time looking back at some of them. Of course on the first page you can see what were the objectives of the 2012 action and I can say with pleasure that the vast majority of these goals have been achieved. In the sports section, I must point out that it was the most successful sports year in the history of Croatian sports, that is the 2012 Olympic Year, the year of the London Olympic Games where our athletes positioned themselves in the 20th place in the world, or 15th in Europe. If we compare it to Beijing where we were fifty-five of the two hundred four participating countries I think it is more evident that this is the best sports result Croatia has ever had in one year. This should be added to three hundred seven medals won in that year by Croatian athletes and athletes and in various international competitions, which is also the main reason and purpose of the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Therefore, the Croatian Olympic Committee is responsible for the international performances of our athletes and athletes and its components are thirty eight alliances of the Olympic Committees, thirty one alliance of Neolimpic Sports and twenty-one local community and the City of Zagreb. These are, this is our membership with some associated members and these are those on whose international performances, preparations, the development of athletes is the old Croatian Olympic Committee. The Croatian Olympic Committee does not have any legislative powers over clubs, nor over alliances, nor is it authorised under our legal system to do any control of its members, this is what other state bodies do. As far as our programs are concerned, special attention would be paid to you, as you can see from the report on a whole series of development programs. In 2012, over four hundred or four hundred forty athletes and athletes were in the development programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee. All medalists in London and the vast majority of medal winners during that year were either still in one of the development programs of the Croatian Olympic Committee. I can only point out as a single dipression that you get the impression that it is today, there are over 300 of them today and for Rio alone we already have in our programmes for the Rio Olympics 2016 over ninety athletes and athletes from Lisa Stublic to Sandra Perkovic who are in our programs. To this end, the Croatian Olympic Committee also finances leading Croatian coaches. In 2012, which was the subject of this debate, 79 coaches were included in the Croatian Olympic Committee programmes. All coaches who were coaches of those who won medals in the range from Josko Vlasic and Ante Kostelic to Ratko Rudić and Slavko Goluže to the coach of junior and cadet selections are all in the programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee and are funded from these programmes. The only ones who are not or are not the only ones who are not in 2012 are football-type voters, because the Croatian Football Federation has enough funds and has never voluntarily used the funds available to the Croatian Olympic Committee. It's a huge amount of business. To get a picture, for example, more than 600 international competitions in one year are handled by people from the Croatian Olympic Committee. Over 130 world championships in one year should organize preparations, performances, equipment, all that is relevant for their successful performance. And this is done in synergy between the Croatian Olympic Committee and its professional services, national alliances, professional headquarters and, of course, athletes and athletes. The next thing that is very important to us is co-operation with the ministries. I have to make a special point and thank you for your cooperation with the Department of Defense. From Minister Antunovic, via late Minister Vukelic to Minister Kotromanovic. And thanks to that, I must also publicly tell General Lucic and Lovrić we have 21 athletes and athletes in the Armed Forces today. It's not much, but it's a big step forward. Of those 21, when we talk about 2012 11 of them were part of the London Olympic Games, five of them won medals. To get the impression, Slovenia has over 100 athletes and athletes and coaches in defence, internal affairs and finance programmes. Slovakia also has a suitable country of over 200. Here's Jacob Fak around who's had a lot of stories is today a customs officer in Slovenia. We, for example, haven't been able to solve Mr. Montenegrin yet who, as you know, has a gold medal from London, but I hope we can do it. Next thing you know, it's extremely important, health care and insurance. All athletes in our programs have top health care and all forms of travel insurance. They are fully protected by including vitaminisation mostly thanks to our sponsors. The special section refers to the promotion of the Olympic idea and olympicism as a whole. I draw your attention to the activities that are related to the youngest at the children's kindergarten festival. The 14 thousand youngest were included in these programmes to gain basic knowledge of the Olympics, the Olympic Games and the Olympic values. Special attention should be paid to the part relating to the education of athletes. I must say that, with the great help of the Mother Ministry and in part of the European Union, we have come to the development of a career project after a career, so a project that promotes the European Union that ensures the training of athletes for what awaits them after their sports careers. Especially should we say our actions in local sports. You have all the information here, so we cooperate and finance projects in 21 counties in the city of Zagreb with the emphasis on specific projects, which is the town of Vukovar and the town of Knin and islands. And here we have done a lot of good, that people who follow sports in Vukovar, Knin or in the islands know very well. All together, dear MPs and MPs are funded and you see from the revenue side most of the games of chance. Croatia has a legislative solution whereby all those who bet, play lottery, lotto, bingo or as all these games are called, part of these funds are allocated to the special fund of the Ministry of Finance and is then divided by a special regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to various users between them and Croatian sport through the Croatian Olympic Committee. In 2012 was the last year in which Croatian sport, hence the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Alliance received funds from the state budget in a narrow sense. It is no longer available in 2013 or in 2014 without direct transfers from the state budget, it is exclusively funded from games of happiness and its own income. Looking at the tables available to you on the revenue side, you can see that in 2012, our own revenues were somewhere above 16 million kuna. And that if you are looking at the financial result that we transferred in 2012 a little over 5 million own funds for the 2013 programmes. As for the spending party, I especially draw your attention to the fact that you will easily see from the contexts that are listed there. When it comes to official travel, it refers to sports travel. That's where sportsmen travel when they're on their way to the show. When it comes to rents, it is about rents of business space for the needs of the Federation of Nationals and the needs of the Croatian Olympic Committee. We've been at the same location for almost 15 years. The najdavac is the town of Zagreb, it determines the prices. And only a few national alliances have their own places, such as basketball, football, and that's actually it. On the spending side, you will certainly see the wages of the employed. We've cut employees' salaries by over 20% over the last two years. The latest report by the Ministry of Finance of Budgetary Control is that salaries employed in total expenditure are around 8.37%. It's one of the smallest percentages, and you have good insight into all state agencies and similar institutions. One of the smallest percentages you can find. As far as control is concerned. The Croatian Olympic Committee has re-creditation again, already several years old. Last year it was recredited for ISO 9001, so quality standard. He has an internal audit, he has a supervisory board, he has a whole series of controls from the Ministry of Finance, the ministries of our home, the assembly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and finally you in this House of Commons. So far, all the reports of the Croatian Olympic Committee have been adopted most frequently and without votes against in this House. I have to mention two of the other activities. The first is the Croatian Olympic Academy which actually has a double mission. The Croatian Olympic Academy and every Olympic committee in the world must have an Olympic Academy that promotes Olympic values and teaches people about the basic plantings of Olympicism. Our Olympic Academy also has the task of adult education. Why? Because our high school institutions in this area that are top-level, the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb and the Faculty of Kinesiology in Split with whom we have cooperation agreements that are top institutions of this level in Europe have a limited number of directions and you have a whole series of disciplines and sports where simply these sports don't learn to say so in colleges. Trainers of darts, fitness coaches, body building trainers such directions as sports exist, but they do not exist within the university directions. There are then to raise the expertise of people there are then certain schoolings, certain courses and what you see in the annex to this report. Another very important component is sports television. In 2003, the Croatian Olympic Committee, so 11 years ago, took part in the concession for national television for the first time along with the Evening List and one consortium. That's when he got that RTL. The idea was the same then and today, and that's promoting so-called. small and mediay neglected sports. In 2004, it seems to me to be either fifth, irrelevant, during the term of office of Mr Galic, we signed an agreement with Croatian Television on the formation of so-called Croatian television. a sports channel like a 24-hour sports channel that would promote the same values. For some reasons, internal television on Croatian television did not go through at the end of 2010, and at the end of 2010, the Croatian state announced a concession for so-called. A specialized program. With the support of the ministry, with the written support of the National Sports Council, which said that it was of public interest and a whole series of our alliances, the vast majority went to that concession and got it. And exactly three years ago, she started broadcasting sports television. For the sake of proper information, I must tell you that just for the very reason that no kuna of money intended for athletes would be spent on funding this programme we have offered this programme to business banks based on the feasiness of the studio and the banks have agreed to finance it. Of course, such projects cannot be positive or physical in a time that is less than five, six years old. In this case marriage-even was due in 2016. And as you know, unfortunately no commercial television in Croatia today has ever been profitable. But we're broadcasting with big problems, but that TV is working over 8,000 hours a year. To have some comparison Croatian Radio Television works about 1000 hours of sports program per year. So, this small television is working eight times more hours of Croatian radio television as far as sports are concerned. That's the part that I think should be noted, so it doesn't stay unsaid. We, through these loans, had a debt of about 35 million kuna for all three years of broadcasting. Overall, it was spent for three years broadcasting less than the one-year budget of the Croatian Sports Directorate. Therefore, I think there are a lot of people in this hall who can think about whether Croatia needs a specialized national sports channel, whether we should see tae kwon do, whether we should see judo, whether we should see home championships or just watch the Messi and some other world stars, and yet for the account of all Croats who pay the subscription. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs. That's what I wanted to say first about this report. Finally, I can tell you that all the controls that were, and there were many, related to the business of HOO for 2012 have not found any cases of illegal spending of budget money, so the part that comes from gambling. That's what I wanted to end up with and tell you one more thing, if it were to be determined that it wasn't so I'd be very happy to step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76988	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Here you go, Comrade Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76989	So, Madam Vice-President, this opinion of the Government, which was received by representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is at least unusual and has never happened this way, that someone in detail explained some things, and I will do so later in the replica, but in the Government's view it says that the government gives a negative opinion for its representatives who will be present at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, the Government has appointed Minister Zeljko Jovanovic, Deputy Minister Saša Zelenik and Assistant Peter Skansi. Since personally as a man who has been in sports for many years and has been president of one of the most trophy national alliances, the HoO report in many things is not controversial but there is a sign from the Government that I would like to comment on with the representatives of the Government to ask them whether the same criteria and rules apply to themselves, first of all, to the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, because I think this is a political hack.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76990	Hey, buddy, tell me what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76991	Please, I'm asking you nicely, this is a political hack to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76992	Now you're arguing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76993	No, I'm just expressing the club's view that at this point of the agenda, I think he must be a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76994	Thank you very much. Government officials gave, the government gave written broad opinion And they said it wasn't necessary because I can, the government's representatives can only say what it says in the government's opinion. [[I said who will be present at the session.]] Comrade Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76995	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Matesha, you mentioned in your opening speech good communication and good work with the Department of Defense. And I want to ask you intro to this debate do you, as the head of the HOO, have good communication with Minister Jovanovic? He's the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Because they're weird, and I'd say very malicious statements that he was making in the sense of this report. I'll quote you one that's totally unacceptable to me. "The leadership of the HoO has not acted in accordance with the fiscal responsibility and principle of good master and has made decisions that did not have a basis in the Statute and the rules of the HoO." It's one hard charge for everyone, I think it's inappropriate, because it's challenging the value of this report that we're talking about today and even the legality of all the activities that you're doing as a HOO. That's why I'm asking about that communication. Because listening to a number of sports successes, all of the activities, all of what it says here, the positive even financial impact of this report, I have the feeling that one party, in particular I will specify it by means of some I would say and illicit activities take over the leadership of this roof sport organization in the Republic. And that's why I think it's both given and negative opinion because it's also the result of the ignorance of a minister who doesn't know what his job is in that ministry. And there's a famous saying that drives in public these days that who knows, knows, and who doesn't know, sits in this Kukuriku government, and there's Minister Jovanovic. So I'd like to hear if you have any communication and does he want to communicate with you at all about the problems that plague the hoo?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76996	Thank you very much. You know how to choose the headship of the HoO and you know that no political party can do that. Do you want to respond to the replica? You have the right to respond to the replica in a time of 2 minutes, if you want to, of course. ... [[/Miss Mathesha: What?]] Okay, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76997	Dear Mr. Matesha, dear colleagues and colleagues, you've listed two points I'll concentrate on. The first was when you said that Slovenia has over 100 athletes in the ministry and Slovakia has over 200, so countries one in the neighborhood is similar to us, and that the Montenegrin gold medal winner has not yet succeeded in one of the ministries. Or the Department of Defense or the Ministry of the Interior. Well, that's because Croatia is a blameless country. In Croatia, no man is ever employed because he has a party book. We are a high moral land, we are a criterion for all other countries in our proximity and breadth. So, Mr. Matesha, you have to understand that. Kukuriku coalition, no member of the Kukuriku coalition is ever employed because he has a party book. Mr. Montenegrin must meet high criteria, he must win at least 20 medals. He'll probably be retired by then. Normally it's ironic and it's a shame, a great shame for the Republic of Croatia. The other thing you said was television. No TV does business commercially with any plus, you're right, you find it strange how money is made for television. However, one big problem that we should face today is that there are no mecenaries in Croatia that would worry about such television as is needed in Croatia and especially what you said at the beginning when you talked about television for small and neglected sports, that we do not just watch football and those swamps that should be dried up by me but not in a way that is done to the ministry. And it would be good for you to say what Mr. Boris asked you before, to answer that question because the ministry's representative has nothing to boast about, which the parliament underestimates.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76998	Sasha Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u76999	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Matesha, I have listened carefully to your opening statement. I'm not going to use as my colleagues this politicization of this, but I'm going to stick to what you're saying. I'll tell you in detail about this report in this debate, but I'd like to point out two things. You said that since 2012 there has been no funding from the state budget and that the Croatian Olympic Committee is being financed from the revenue from gambling. Now, I think that gambling revenues are also budgetary resources because if those funds didn't go to your union, they would end up in the State Budget or if you could nod, yes, but I think they're also state resources and that's one kind of funding from the state budget. Okay, okay. We'll do that later. But what I'd like to especially highlight is sports television. You said that it serves to promote small sports, not to be financed from your assets, but to be financed by loans from business banks, but these banks did not want to accept the financing of sports television without the firm guarantees of the Croatian Olympic Committee and by some projections by 2016 the losses of that television will amount to over 100 million kuna. I'm asking you here who's going to finance these losses, where they're going to finance themselves, and who's going to resuscitate, who's going to resuscitate it? It will be resolved from the state budget, from your assets that go from gambling to happiness or to the expense of Croatian athletes and whether sports television should be given, should but should not be financed in this way as it is now funded or should be financed somehow differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77000	Replication response, Mr. Zlatko Matesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77001	It's not a replica, dear colleague. The first part of your question, of course I agree with you. I have the same experience from this assembly. It is public funds, undoubtedly public funds, but it is not a budget in a narrow sense, so it is not a choice in tax revenues. Secondly, these funds absolutely do not want new issues, they are absolutely subject to all forms of control by all institutions of the Croatian state, undoubtedly. There's no doubt about that. As far as television is concerned, fortunately, your observation of these so-called debts that should go so far as to go, which should be burned according to your pronunciation, is not correct. The Croatian Olympic Committee has guaranteed only those resources that have been given to these loans, hence, by its own resources, the Croatian Olympic Committee cannot grant state guarantees and cannot in any way commit the State Treasury to any repayment of funds. If you're looking at this report we're talking about, there were 16.5 million about our own resources. So you can see that there is a potential for financing and paying off such loans that are reaching up to 2026 during the duration of the concession. Another problem is that we are challenged by the use of our own funds to finance our own project, which I think is really unprecedented, and I must say that the President of the European Olympic Committee Mr Patrick Hickey in November sent a letter to our prime minister in which he draws attention that the Croatian Olympic Committee as well as any other Olympic committee in the world is autonomous in spending its own resources. And as for what you rightly say, honourable representative, as far as public funds are concerned, it is not. This is absolutely control and purpose of spending in the hands of the state and the state can in any other way lay down the financing of such items.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77002	Thank you very much. Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77003	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Right at the beginning and one remark to you. In fact, the Parliament is today discussing the 2012 report and I think that it is losing its purpose and ending to be an important control mechanism here in 2014 and is in fact taxing itself with such reports. What you respected Mr. Mateša said and I am glad that you spoke about it is that in 2012 she was one of the most successful years of Croatian sport at all even when after such a year and according to this report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia probably speaks about one new swamp and one of the five most exhaustive opinions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this honorable House is actually being given to Croatian representatives about what is being prepared on the Croatian Olympic Committee. But I am glad that you mentioned in your report that you helped local and regional self-government units in this case 21st County of the Croatian Olympic Committee and that is, I know of such examples. Perhaps this is also an opportunity to mention that units of local self-government actually care about some 6600 sports clubs, about 250 thousand athletes, of course in this economic situation, are about 100 to 500 kuna per capita for sport, and in local self-government units about 20 to 100 kuna, thus helping the Croatian Olympic Committee with local and regional self-government units must have been of great help. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77004	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77005	Thank you very much. Mr Matisa, the results of the Croatian Olympics in 2012 gave a positive report on the Croatian Olympic Committee's work report because whoever doesn't know what sport is, doesn't know how much effort, denial, money to get to a gold Olympic medal. And so, as far as the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee is concerned, let's get this straight. The government has been working on certain activities, the fight against addiction, the financing of NGOs, including the financing of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the funding of programmes and the Government if it wants to control the part, which should be controlled. However, what this..., unprofessional and inconspicuous report by the government on the refusal of the report is controversial sports television. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you how many Croatian citizens had a chance to watch these two league champion games last night? Very little. Why? Because Croatian television has not made it possible for those money Croatian citizens are paying, to allow these citizens to watch one game. So those who don't have any extra packages that cost 300, 400 kuna last night couldn't watch the game. When was the last time you watched the basketball championship game, the handball championship, those... sports of ours? Does anyone know what discipline the trap we're in, take pictures of each other? Minister Jovanovic attended the Olympic Games. If here in the Parliament, let's discuss what discipline is trap, is anyone asking how many families,...the Sednak and others have invested their money to get to these results that they come to. The Olympic Committee can't finance all of them... No, we do not want to discuss it, not what is bright in Croatian history, which is... the pride of the Croatian people and Croatian states around the world, we want it... because of the petty interests. So let's talk about sports television, why don't this sports program be funded by those who take our billions and 300 million kuna a year? Let's put it on the other side, but let's not speak incorrectly about Croatian athletes and Croatian sports, it is at least not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77006	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77007	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Honorable President with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report by the Croatian Olympic Committee, a report on the implementation of the Olympic 2012 programme, in which Croatian athletes in London won 3 gold, 1 silver and 2 bronze medals, and seven of them placed between 4th and 8th places, so close, but still far from the medal. In addition to these 6 Olympic medals, Croatia won around 300 medals in the world, European championships and cups, which is a great success for a small country like Croatia. For all of this, congratulations to athletes, the Croatian Olympic Committee and sports associations. The Croatian Olympic Committee is associated with 87 national sports alliances. It is a large sports family to which the Croatian Olympic Committee allocated 57 million kuna in 2012 or 41% of total funds. The question arises as to how so far, in what way and according to which criteria these funding has been shared to national sports alliances which are practically sports operators because only now are professional services in the final phase of drawing up criteria for the evaluation of programmes and the results of national sports alliances that would give elements for the quality distribution of funds. The expenditure report shows that the Croatian Olympic Committee is very modestly funding a local sport-enhancing programme with only 3.3% of total revenue, which I think is too modest, or too small. Of course, first of all, I am referring to the obligation of the local sports community to pay compensation to top athletes, and according to the solutions that the Croatian Olympic Committee has focused on local sports budgets that finance local sport from their modest means. The law on sports The Croatian Olympic Committee is entrusted with determining the categorisation of athletes and making a solution to categorization of athletes based on relevant sports results. They're classified in 6 categories. In the 1st, 2nd and 3rd categories, top athletes of Croatia are classified, in the 4th are excellent athletes, while in the 5th and 6th categories are gifted athletes. The Croatian Olympic Committee's solutions go to the local sports community, the city sports alliances on the principle of "my concern, move on to another", where these solutions should be realised, i.e. to pay cash to categorized athletes. And there is my long-standing big grudge to the Croatian Olympic Committee. With this procedure they cannot agree with, we also made the same remarks on the 2011 report, and some other members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports had this report for 2012. Such a way of paying sports fees has damaged top athletes, medal winners from smaller environments with smaller sports budgets, compared to the sport richer alliances from Zagreb, Split or Rijeka. Thus, sportsmen from smaller cities did not receive certain fees or were significantly reduced as mildly as the great injustice was said. The only real solution to this problem is to make the realisation, i.e. the payment of sports fees to top athletes by the Croatian Olympic Committee or the National Sports Federation. The local sports community should only finance amateur sports in its area where there are lots of clubs and a lot of sports, and the top sport should be the concern of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the National Sports Alliance. This would ensure equality and the right of all categorized athletes, while avoiding a sense of discrimination among athletes who should not be in sports. In 2012, the Croatian Olympic Committee made 131 million revenues, of which 114 million or 87% of the revenues from the state budget. In these 115 million, 109 million or 95% are revenues from gambling, and the expenditures of the Croatian Olympic Committee in 2012 are at the level of revenue achieved. The professional service of the Croatian Olympic Committee performs tasks and tasks for the Croatian Olympic Committee, National and Sports Alliances, athletes, and other natural and legal persons and sport systems. In this service 58 workers were employed, 12 million or about 9% of their incomes were spent for their salaries and fees. Unfortunately, the report on the work and activities of the Croatian Olympic Committee has no record of the average salaries of employees, and according to the press, the high incomes of the secretary-general and his four assistants. From the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Olympic Committee illegally spent the funds obtained by giving loans and guarantees for credit borrowing because of its own loss business. As far as sports television is concerned, in 2012 Sports television has been doing Olympic years of transmissions all 16 days of the London Olympics. In parallel, all of this was transmitted by the Croatian Sports Directorate. In competition with state and commercial television particularly sports parts of MAX TV, sports television wants to attract lovers of less attractive small sports, but it is still a big question of how ratings and cost-effectiveness of the project are. Unfortunately, the report found out nothing about these elements, until we heard from the government's session that there were significant losses to sports television. At the annual level, half of the Croatian Olympic Committee's revenues could be approached. It is mentioned that in 2012, sports television did not have a rational business, i.e. income of around 5 million, and costs about 27 million. If that's true, the question arises whether in competition with other television houses with transmissions of current and popular sports, it needs or is it better to focus these large funds on top school and local sports? I often click on the Sports TV channel to see what's being transmitted, but even faster I go to other direct, more attractive transmissions. If it's really a big loss, then it's better and more generous to finance top-of-the-line sports, not to neglect school and amateur sports, which has been the nursery of all top athletes for years. According to the Law on Sports, the Croatian Olympic Committee's task is to encourage and promote sport, but this is the way the promotion and spending of funds intended for sportsmen and athletes has gone in the wrong direction. The intention may have been good. A large part of the sports alliances supported the idea, but the costs of doing sports television as well as all commercial televisions, and the ratings of this TV show that the project is a major failure of the Croatian Olympic Committee. It is unacceptable that significant funds intended for sport and athletes are spent on this kind of promotion because business and spent sports television do not justify it. In the report, there is no record of the ratings of sports television, which measured success. This way of working and unintended spending of money, making decisions without the knowledge of the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee, and the most issued millions of guarantees of the Olympic Committee for the Return of Loans of the Sports Television, we learned from the media, and the reaction of the Croatian Olympic Club that expressed concern about the ambiguity and financial business of the Croatian Olympic Committee as well as the long-term viability of Croatian sport. According to the Croatian Olympic Committee, the idea of promoting less popular sports was supported by most sports alliances. Although difficult to implement, the idea may have been noble, but in some happier economic times. For example, in the world, in rich countries, in America, and Russia, China, Germany, the UK, there is no record that the Olympic Committee is establishing its own television. According to the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, the nominal loss of sports television was found to be €42 million, and with loans as a total of up to 56 million. So, it's a total of over 100 million. Therefore, the Croatian Olympic Committee is the only guarantee of all the obligations of sports television, so it is justified to worry about all sports alliances and top athletes who are allegedly already reduced scholarships for 2013. And care of Croatian Olympic Club for the future and financing of Croatian top sports. Finally, along with these comments on this report and especially on our long-term... both from clubs and now on about how to pay the premiums to top athletes on the burden of local sport is not acceptable, therefore the HSU Club will not support this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77008	Damir Kai's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77009	I dare say no one is. I dare say no one promoted Croatia as our athletes did. [[Intruder: scholarship.]] And really when we look, in 2012, the Olympic Committee spent 139 million kuna, Croatia won 307 medals. And when they are divided, then we see that one medal costs 452 768 kuna, or 590 574 euros. I think it is the best money invested in Croatia, that it is the best money invested in our propaganda. The problem of the Croatian Olympic Committee are these events, these divisions, these disputes, these insults that have been clapping on us in recent months. And then a man asks himself how to avoid it, how to overcome it, how to just overcome it. I think it is the most serious problem of Croatian sports or the Croatian Olympic Committee at the moment. It's a far bigger problem in my court than a sports TV. But the fact is that this is the 2012 report and that these divisions as we follow them started in 2013. So these dynastys, or I don't know how to express the struggles are the real problem of Croatian sport and the Croatian Olympic Committee and all of this is second-rate. And God forbid that this simply causes Croatian athletes or Croatian society to lose the full potential that our athletes can bring. I will never forget the old Istrian bishop Antun Bogetic who was on a mission in Thailand or Taiwan. He says they couldn't recognize me from which country I came until the Croatian football team in Paris won third place After that, the entire island in Croatian uniforms. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] And that's what to pay, that's how it costs, but we need to calm down. And here in Parliament and in HoO.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77010	You're replicating something that your colleague didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77011	He was talking, talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77012	The Iron Seamper's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77013	Well, colleague Cain, I've talked more or less about everything you've said I haven't talked about. At the very beginning of my debate, I pointed out all the medals, all the successes, about 300 medals won. And I congratulated the Croatian Olympic Committee and the sports alliances that are very responsible for it and especially for our excellent athletes who won it. And you'll hopefully say something else in your replica that I didn't say in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77014	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77015	My colleague Schamper, I'm honestly surprised by your debate because the one who didn't work in sports, didn't take care of some sports collective I don't know what that means, you're practically with it the biggest... in the world because none of these people practically live on that sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, also if we are talking about the Olympic Committee, if we are talking about sports clubs at the level of units of local self-government, then we must also know that it is settled by certain legal regulations. Each representative body of the local self-government unit shall make that decision to meet the needs of sport. And whether through the community of sports associations etc., it transfers high-quality athletes or talents you have exactly in the Croatian Olympic Committee's program as they are treated. And it's not good that we here today in this debate don't draw a clear line between sports and sports television. And it is not good to talk about illegality because we in Croatia use the word too easily. But I'm just asking you one question: are Croatian citizens who have been blocked by 350 thousand because they can't settle their obligations to not be allowed to watch a single sports event? Because look how many of these sports shows we have on national television to make a subscription. If we don't need that sports channel as a Croatian state, then let's just say we don't need some kind of commercial to come in and let him buy us not tell us whose and what kind of series and let us... With that 24 hours of us and our children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we talk about fighting addiction, there's no stronger fight of addiction than education for children and a reference to sports activities, there's no stronger fight. So if we're willing to sacrifice it then someone here today needs to say it publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77016	The Iron Seamper's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77017	Well, my colleague Shuker, I can only tell you that I had the biggest objections about the fact that the Croatian Olympic Committee is issuing solutions and it sends it to a local sports community that has, for example, my Koprivnica has 80 clubs that the city finance and for such top athletes there is no such money. So what happens? It happens that one Zeljka Orehovec known bowling team, world champion with world record, does not get the same amount of compensation as Biserka Perman in Rijeka or the head of Kristoff in Zagreb, this is what this is about. The one who has issued the solutions should pay for that fee or possibly the National Sports Union to which the athlete belongs. And as for sports television, we often talk to people, especially sports fans, and they all wonder what it's for and who it's for, because practically no one's looking at it. No one is looking no matter what the intention was, that the sports alliances agreed to carry on these little sports. And I've talked a lot about these little sports, especially with regard to the bowling that's been neglected, which is no longer on any television and we've been watching Nikola Dragas for three years as the world champion. Therefore, I think that these funds spent on sports television should be spent on athletes in smaller clubs and in the local community because from then on they come those who become top athletes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77018	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77019	Thank you very much. I am surprised by your position, a negative attitude towards this report, which you have come under the obvious media influence and influence of what Minister Jovanovic has initially done to create such an attitude. He took out the entire functioning of the Croatian Olympic Committee and then we have no objections to 300 and some medals but we have a comment on some part which is now a threat to all athletes in the Republic of Croatia. And then you say I'm not paying, I'm not looking, and I'm watching what I'm paying for, so that's okay, that's basically, our being our Croats that we don't always appreciate what we don't pay. And I'm saying it's a good sports channel. And whoever has the chance to watch him has just covered everything that you've given as a grudge. Where can you take a look at the game of junior junior Croatian league, on which program? Only on sports television, but you're not interested in it because it's not interesting to watch you next to some messiah and iniesta and everyone else. Then we watch it on some other TV. But what matters is we don't pay for it. And HRT pays a thousand kunas a year and there's nothing that bothers us, there's everything perfect, we're not asking it to go away. We're not asking for a part of the funds to be invested in such television and help that television to survive and be even better. Because we don't have any sports on our TV but big competitions. You can watch the Olympics every four years, possibly the World Cup in football and handball because it's interesting for everyone. What else do we have? European basketball championship every two years. But it's got to be time. We don't have any sports events on our TV every week. Who's following that? And only then is the sports channel and then we demean it because for 5 million kunas a year it's trying to create some kind of program and it's no good for you. But you're all up for local sports, for young people, etc. and just there they got some space to promote as sport, and especially sports that aren't so much let's say important or financially attractive marketing and many who live off marketing And that would be good. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] to support this report, because this is the beginning and only two years and such television. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77020	Thank you. The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper. Watch it on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77021	Well, if you remember when we recently discussed the Croatian Radio Television Report, I was also critical of what Croatian Radio Television is doing, especially in sports transmissions. The large funds that leave over a billion kuna from the tv tax. As for the sport that we love more or less, we do not give us the right to be satisfied and we spoke critically about, for example, that none of the finals of the Croatian football cup were transmitted one year. But in the competition of commercial television, we have to admit that they have a far better and better quality program. That's what you pay for, and people pay for quality. No one's against small sports. Especially I was thirty years old in one small, but large club, the ball club Podravka, which was six years champion of Croatia, which was one year second in Europe and third in the world. And we've always fought to make these little sports more popular. I don't mind small sports, but I have an objection to this kind of spending of sports television money, where they see that there are losses and where someone is, and in this case, the Croatian Olympic Committee provides guarantees that these loans will be returned. But as the Croatian Olympic Club says, they're worried too. Sportsmen who have given a lot for Croatian sport and for this country, because the local community is also proud of their individuals. But they did it for both the Croatian state and Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77022	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77023	Dear colleague Šemper, you were quite right at first to point out the importance of Croatian sport. If something is above the Croatian average and it is thick above the Croatian average it is only Croatian sport and because it is not dependent on the system and the most individual sport I know well. Let us not banalise the role of the Croatian Olympic Committee or Sports Television. You said no one was watching. If we go according to that criterion, half of Croatia's broadcasting should be abolished because no one is watching them because they are bad, because they are catastrophic and they are being spent a billion and 200 thousand kuna of public money. I'm sorry, what's on Croatian TV since sports is part of commercial television because it's a commercial sport. It does not belong to Croatian broadcasting because it is commercial as it does not even include soaps. But you supported the Croatian Radio Television report, you supported the report. The opposition doesn't know how it voted, we were against that report because Croatian Radio Television is working badly. Now she's doing worse than she's ever done bad. One big problem, our wishes are in the way of our options. Sports TV can't do business positively, there's no way it can do business positively. We need to agree if we want sports television, it's commercial television, it's television that can't be financed by the state. But there are ways to finance similar programs elsewhere. With us you have no Croatian capitalists who are solid, you have no Croatian capitalists who will say I will support Sports TV because it is a noble intention, because here we have cadets, there we have primary schools, there we have. No, they won't give it, but they're taking their kids on helicopters to their birthdays. Now, that's your Croatian reality, and we, these Croatian capitalists, the Social Democratic Government, are very supportive of these lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77024	Gold Shemper, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77025	Well, colleague Vuksic, I repeat once again that I am not against small sports. In fact, I've always fought my whole life because I've been in sports since I was a kid and I know what it means to do and how to work in sports clubs that don't have the means to fight for sponsors. But in this case, there is no excuse if athletes, as we read, have been suspended, reduced scholarships for 2013 means no funds. Then why give and finance sports television? A lot of people tell me, so every Sunday I'm at the stadium, and Saturday I ask people, "Are you watching Sports TV?" I was getting ready for this debate to see what people, athletes, sports fans think, and no one's watching. What's the point of throwing all this money away, and then there's no money for athletes, then athletes don't have to travel and journals. It's a joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77026	Ana Comparić Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77027	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. So, fellow Schamper, in your discussion, you mentioned, of course, sports television and the problems that arise and the gap that occurred naturally in this report as regards the Croatian Olympic Committee and the sports television itself. The fact is that in 2012 according to the 2012 Business Report of the Sports Television of two thousand means eleventh of 2012 a new minus 8 million kuna was created and it now stands at two thousand means twelveth year 22 million 823 thousand kuna. What I now have as information is that this minus is almost 40 million kuna right now. So we're somewhere in the middle of 2014. And the fact is, we have a problem. So, we're right when we talk about having a problem with sports television and how it needs to be solved and how everyone should think about it together now. But the fact is that we have a problem, that sports television is making losses. How will they cover themselves? You're saying it won't go from money to athletes. I am not convinced of that because what my colleague Schamper said, we have discussed this several times on the board, and therefore the programme means compensation for athletes who are being issued by HoO and then transferred to local self-government units, or to sports alliances that should therefore pay those fees. And the fact is, it depends on where you live. If you're in a small place you won't get a fee, if you're in a big city you might get lucky and get a fee. And the fact is probably from the money funded by Sports TV could be financed by just those athletes and those fees. And the fact is that it may also be that the Children's Daycare Festival could end up at the state level, not end up at county levels if there was that money. So, for some things and projects, we have money, and for some, we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77028	Thank you very much. Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77029	Dear colleagues, I can tell you that, of course, I agree because we discussed this on our committee when it came to this. It's a big problem and we can only think about how that athlete who took part in winning some world medals felt, and then, as far as the compensation goes, she's severely damaged. Of course he feels discriminated against, depending on which city he comes from whether it is a small town with small funds or perhaps there is Zagreb, Rijeka, Split which are still richer in these local budgets that could do so. Therefore, it is one thing and we can say sports discrimination because this share of each of these members of the team is not adequately rewarded.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77030	On behalf of the promoter, the word is made by President Zlatko Mateša. Here's to the pay phone. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77031	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I don't need five minutes, just a few notes. Dear Representative, the categorization of athletes and the payment of fees has nothing to do with the HoO. The Croatian Olympic Committee shall have only one part of the public authority to issue the relevant document on the basis of the results of the athlete or athlete. But I must tell you quite frankly I fully share your opinion. It is not permitted for categorised athletes of first or second categories to receive different levels of compensation depending on the wealth of the local environment or not to receive at all. The bad part about that story is that you have pressure on richer environments. Ask Vojka Obersnel, ask Zagreb how many athletes from other backgrounds are applying in these cities to solve their own business. Although that's not the thing we're responsible for. We proposed two years ago to our ministry that all categorized athletes of first and second categories be financed from the state budget, to have the same fees as high as they were. Why it hasn't been accepted so far, I really don't know. The second thing, television, first any athlete or national alliance received no less funds or less than what was provided for in the 2010 budget, 2011, 2012, and you will see in which day and 2013 for sport television. It was a project that had its fissibility study, which was positively assessed by the banks and financed by it. Of course, if we were making a coffee shop, you wouldn't be profitable in three years. It can't even be television, as the Honorable representative says. And in those fissibility studies it was that it could be at zero in 2016 about. And is that why we have to give up this project? Is that why we have to say we won't see judo, that we won't see tae kwon to which half the Olympic medals are at the last two Olympic games? It is a question which, of course, is our responsibility, but you should give it your contribution to this reflection. I will just add the following, recent EU talks have come, so our talks between the European and EU Olympic families that what is financed in public money sport must be available on public television. So, you can't finance like a respected basketball club representative or handball clubs in one country public money, and then tell people if you want to watch it, you'll pay. It won't work anymore. You will see in a few years, very quickly, what is financed by public money will have to be on open television systems. And finally, Your Honor, I'm asking you nicely for no illegality. We can provide you with all the reports that we received from the competent state authorities and I ask you nicely to look at it and see for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77032	Anna Comparic-Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77033	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Your Honor, Mr. Matesha, I can agree with you in part and you are right when you say that you are issuing solutions, and that the units of local and sports alliances determine their criteria and determine the amount of funds to finance so these athletes. And that's a fact. So it depends on how much money you have that athlete can get. And the fact is, there's a lot of pressure on the river because I know it too well. Among other things, Sanja Jovanovic is the last person to come to us. But the fact is, what Mr. Shemper wanted to say is what I was saying on the board, and you tried to solve it through the law, why the Croatian Olympic Committee simply our Olympics, except that the issue wouldn't finance, from money from their money, why not finance forgive athletes, we can finance television from our own resources and we can't do this. And even when you say the same thing when you say about television, 2016 will be profitable, I don't know if it's going to be according to that physiability study because if it's now down to minus 22 2012, right now if my information is correct, so 2014 is now not even half a year at minus 42 very difficult in 2016 to be in plus. That's just what I had to say, explain to me how.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77034	Replication response, Zlatko Matesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77035	Dear MPs, we as you can see from the reports to those athletes and athletes of the first and second categories that are in our programs, they get scholarships from us, we're not talking about it, we're talking about the obligation of the local community to pay categorized athletes, there's really nothing we can do about it. So we can't pay these people twice, from what means? We pay everything, everyone in our programmes gets not only scholarships, they're paid to prepare, professional work, vitamins, health care, travel, so we do everything in our jurisdiction. I'm sorry, but we can't do what is the matter of the local community, and it's cities or local self-government and management that determine in their budgets how much they pay categorized athletes. I repeat, our position is and I ask you nicely to support it as an obligation to enter the Sport Act that all our athletes of the first and second categories regardless of where they live have the right to the same amount of compensation. As far as this second piece is concerned, you're investing first in a project, so it's not the funds that have been thrown away. For these funds broadcast in three years, 24 thousand hours of the program. Well, I don't think I really know how to finance a project without investing in it and still being profitable. I mean, maybe I don't really understand much from the economy anymore, sometimes I obviously knew more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77036	The turtle of the Shemper Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77037	Well, Mr. Matesha, I don't think what you said really makes any sense. You issue solutions and now let the local community worry about it. The local community has no money and these athletes, these top athletes, winners of world medals, so they did not win a medal for their village, for their city, but for the Croatian state. You're the one who declares you the best at your celebrations and this is my concern to the other. I think if that's not arranged, let it be arranged to be known. Who rewards top athletes, so it's not a little bit to get to the world medal. There's been a lot of effort. We who worked in small clubs know how much effort there is and how much care and money and time and love for that sport. And then ultimately discrimination. So how do these people feel? I know how Zeljko Orehovec feels that I've worked with for decades in that club and we know what the problems were and in what ways we've all tried to make it better, to get some kind of sponsorship from the company to make it up and I think it has to be arranged if it's not arranged to know exactly who's issuing the solution, let him pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77038	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77039	Thank you very much. Mr Matesha, when the Government puts an opinion on a report without sticking to the basic postulates, it is to determine whether the Croatian Olympic Committee has fulfilled its obligations in accordance with the legal provisions then what is happening happens. Not everyone has to know about sports all because not everyone deals with people and then unfortunately we mix pears and apples. First of all, we need to figure out what units of local self-government are funding and, unfortunately, when we talk about being able to talk about decentralisation and tell us what would happen to us both with education and everything to bring them down to that level. However, these funds that are financed through meeting the needs of sport are financed by younger categories, not by senior teams. The fact that everyone's using all that money to fund senior teams is something else. But if the government had stuck to these postulates and based on that, we would be discussing here today, it's one sports side because the Croatian Olympic Committee and its bodies make up athletes and representatives of athletes and another story would be about sports television and simply here someone says we don't need sports TV and that's ok. But colleagues and colleagues because HRT operates positively? He's not doing business and we're giving him a billion and 300 million. I'm not going to mention other TVs, look at their online financial reports, and you'll see how they do business. So I'm just asking you one question. Sometimes when you turned on the TV at five o'clock on the first program, you knew it was a championship basketball game and you knew when you had a sports exam, when you could see goals and all the other stuff. If it hadn't been for sports television, we wouldn't have seen, say, great games of our basketball players last year, actually these on the European Championship in Ljubljana. It's the only sports television that's broadcast it, sports television, not HRT, don't confuse the concepts. And so are the other games. See what kind of contract the basketball alliance signed with NIKE now only because of two players, because of the potential of Šarić and Hezonje and in this Šarić and Hezonj were invested by local self-government units and their parents invested and we can also list Blanca and Janica and Ivica. So let's not confuse the concepts of colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77040	Comrade Shuker, you are this time, but you have not replicated your colleague Matesha. You're a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77041	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Matesha, you said in your last address that sports television actually has no impact on the financing of athletes because sports television is funded by business banks. Here, I'll tell you as an economist that this model of funding sports television through business banks really isn't good, actually he's very bad. So the data you provided states that in 2012, the cost of interest was 1.3 million kuna. Therefore, the revenues of Sports Television amounted to 5 million kunas and 28 million kuna expenditures. So, on the 1st kuna of Sports Television income, 6 kuna expenditure was achieved. The loss in 2012 amounts to 23 million kuna, i.e. from 2011 increased by 8 million kuna. The real question is, what is this loss today? So, if it grew in the same dynamic as it grew in 2012 compared to 2011, then it can, by some estimates, exceed the sum of 40 million kuna today. And that's not all, the total liabilities, as it says in this report, are 45 million kuna, of which 27 million kuna falls on liabilities to banks, therefore to those banks that finance sports television. If all of this is so, and we see from the report that, then these debts are actually a quarter of the current budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee and it is certain that all of this has an important impact, so Sports Television has an important impact on the financing and financial situation of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Finally, in 2012, the Olympic Committee showed a current loss. It is fortunate to be covered by the 2011 surplus income. I mean, in conclusion, the fact is that this bad funding of sports television will, sooner or later, already affect the funding of athletes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77042	Thank you. Replication response, Zlatko Matesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77043	Dear MPs, I guess there's some difference between the funding manual and what you said. I mean, don't be angry, and with all due respect, you get down with your shoulders. And tell that part of it that it's long-term funds that have their own return dynamics, they don't reach on the same day, on the same week, at the same amount. And now I'm going to tell you one more thing, I see that, very interestingly, sports television came to the heart of interest, not when we were looking for a concession, not then, not in 2010, not in 2011, not in 2012, but in April 2013. And in April 2013, a very powerful group of people who obviously need a concession appeared and if you look... from April to 2013 every day this television is on the agenda like the Narco cartel. At the same time you have a state-owned public company called the Croatian Post Office, which has invested 245 million kuna in Evo TV in the last 3 and a half million kuna in the last year. Well, people, let's destroy sports television, okay. Mateš will go, someone else will go, I don't know what it can be, I'm ready for it, but I expect to consider it anyway, and if we can help Croatia have the National Sports Channel, let's help, if we won't, we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77044	On behalf of the SDP club, counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77045	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Matesha with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Though every nation will say of its country that it is among the most beautiful, the best and proud of it, we can say of our country with all modesty. There are few countries in the world that are famous and recognizable for as many things as Croatia. A large part of the people in the world know about a small country with a rich history, with beautiful Adriatic Sea, beautiful nature, many people who have marked European and world history, science, medicine, but who are proud of numerous sports successes. Our top athletes are a brand that makes us recognizable all over the world, rare world competitions that do not play Croatian anthem, and rare are those that are not chili for Croatian giants such as Drazen Petrovic, Goran Ivanisevic, Janica and Ivica Kostelic, Blanke Vlasic, Sandra Perković, Bronze Fires, for our handball players or water poloists. It is often noted that Croatia's largest ambassadors in the world are our athletes who have made a great contribution to Croatia's international recognition, who have brought us back optimism in the era of the Homeland War, but even today when Croatia is in a difficult economic and economic crisis, it is those who make us proud and united in these difficult moments, while in many competitions Croatian flag and listens to Croatian anthem. At the beginning of the creation of the Croatian State, in 1991 the Croatian Olympic Committee was founded as the highest non-governmental national sports association whose programme and financial report for 2012 is today in front of us. Before the end of last year, and in recent days the media has been filling headlines on irregularities related to the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, sports inspection findings, supervision of the Ministry of Finance, a major storm has been raised in connection with the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The Olympic club, many athletes, fell into insults and hard words, when we add what's been happening in Croatian football in the past months, all of this puts an ugly picture on Croatian sport as a whole and completely contrary to what I was talking about in the introduction. On the basis of sports inspection findings, supervision of the finance ministry and irregularities observed, the government gave a negative opinion on this report. In its negative opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wishes to point out the non-transparent spending of budgetary resources and the risk of operations leading to the risk of loss of strictly dedicated resources. The loss and dispersion of funds on the financing of the company, at unrealistic administrative and logistics costs, put the entire system of sports at risk, and the greatest responsibility lies right on the leadership of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The fact is that the funds for the settlement of sports TV obligations in 2014 will exceed the Croatian Olympic Committee's own revenues and will consequently endanger the use of purely dedicated sports resources in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that by 2016 the accumulated loss of sports television will be 113 million kuna. The fact is that in the documents of the Croatian Olympic Committee titled "The Public Needs of State-level Sport for 2012 and 2013, as well as the projection of the public needs programme of State-level sport for the period 2009 to 2013." There is no word on sports television as an element of the public needs of state-level sports. The fact that the financing of sports television, recapitalisation and guaranteeing is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Sports and the Statute of the Croatian Olympic Committee. How is it possible for the Croatian Olympic Committee as an association of citizens on the basis of the state budget to issue guarantees for the loans of the company and lend loans, which the same company produces millions of losses? The fact is that there are no valid decisions of the managing authority on the granting of loans and decapitation, which has also been notified by the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia by the Sport Inspectorate. The risk management of the Croatian Olympic Committee is more than evident, and when the Croatian Olympic Committee received notice of the start of budgetary surveillance, it only then informed the State Audit of the guarantees. The amendments and additions to the financial plan, i.e. the 2012 budget rebalancing, were made only in May 2013 when the planned revenues were reduced to the level of implementation of all recorded expenditures for 2012, and we all know that budget rebalancing was made by the end of the current calendar year and never for the previous year. Covering up risky and irresponsible business in this way is against the law and clearly points to the intention of the Croatian Olympic Committee to amend this report. All of us know the results of our athletes that we talked about in the opening section, so we should all ask ourselves whether these results could have been better if the funds financed by the company’s business had gone to them. We would have better conditions and environment for achieving top results, which is precisely the main task of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The media could also hear threats that journalists employed in Sports TV would end up on the street, which was a public deception because it was also the editor-in-chief of Sports TV when he objected to the quality and composition of the programme that journalists can't cover everything because of 37 employees, only 7 journalists are in Sports TV. It is very clear that sports television will not become a cost-effective project and now, a lot has been said by now about how it will be abolished, cut off some citizens to watch Sports TV, but here is one fact that the ratings of Sports TV are only 0.4%, which is about 15 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia. Okay. [[Intruder: it's more than a HRT show.]] And commercial banks did not want to participate in risky lending without firm guarantees from the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is useful public funds. In spite of the recommendations given on equalisation of wages with other salaries made from the state budget, non-proportional issues for that purpose are still noticeable. The fact is, for example, Payments to Croatian Olympic Committee staff exceed the overall budget for local sport promotion programmes and projects by almost 2.5 times. It should also be noted that the methodology used in this report does not show in detail all expenditures, e.g. and pay expenditure does not cover details of employee costs such as transport fees, logbooks, work contracts and the like, so that these costs are much higher than can be seen in this report. When talking about wage cuts, employees are missed, they are missing out on reduced scholarships to Croatian athletes. Is that proof of concern for Croatian sport? The Croatian Olympic Academy, which is of course under the control of the Croatian Olympic Committee, has identified major labour irregularities. The beliefs and diplomas were issued in an illegal manner, and there is also no clear justification and evidence of the expenditure of the budget, especially when we know that most of the costs of the academy are financed by the students of the same academy. And while respecting Olympic autonomy, the autonomy of sport, their autonomy in the development of the realisation of sports programs are incomprehensible threats that have also been heard in the media, the suspension of the Croatian Olympic Committee, and comparison with cases in India. The International Olympic Committee makes it very clear that legislation and legal regulations must be respected in the country in which they operate. The government of the Republic of Croatia is asking for nothing more than a transparent spending of funds aimed at improving the overall system of sports and taking care of athletes. It is important to note that the Croatian Olympic Committee is a beneficiary of current donations paid out of the state budget of 0.80. With regard to the above, the activities of the Croatian Olympic Committee are financed mostly by the state budget of 87 to 89%, from the revenues from gambling which have increased significantly since 2009 compared to the general incomes and receipts which are recorded in terms of the revenues from gambling. The law on gambling found that the funding of the game revenue programme is intended to promote sport, and therefore the association is obliged to apply it in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, in particular in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and efficiency which does not appear to me in this report, in the light of the principles of economic, efficiency and effectiveness. It is important to note that neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor the Resort Ministry, nor the SDP as colleagues have spoken, have the intention to interfere in the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but it is precisely our task, all of us and these institutions and the responsibility to control and monitor the purpose and justifiable spending of budget funds, and in this particular case it is all in the interest of the development of Croatian sports and athletes themselves. And now I'd just like two more sentences, Mr. Matesha you said on several occasions, you're firmly defending the Sports Television project, and I would like to ask you here the same question, are you standing firm behind this project despite all these facts? Because it's easy to do experiments with someone else's money. I would like to know, when you talk about the long term of the projects, whether you and your associates on the Croatian Olympic Committee would be willing to enter the private project Sports Television as individuals and invest your own assets on this project and give personal guarantees if you are so sure of the success of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77046	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77047	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Djujic, it is evident from your statement that Minister Jovanovic wrote it to you because there is obviously nothing better to do than to always deal with the fact that he is disabling someone. Look at the logical sequence you've come into. You say no one's looking, creating a loss, it needs to be shut down. Let's apply that to the government, she mimics the program daily, no one's watching it, she's creating a loss of 60 billion deficits in three years, and then it should be shut down. And you say she's the most successful in history. Look at that logical sequence and it didn't make it worth it in three years. This project that you've imagined obviously isn't working, let's shut it down. But no, and the same is public money. That's the difference because you still in the SDP think that what's allowed the ox isn't cabbage. And that's how you act. That's how you treat this project. You need to take off your gloves and say it out loud, yes, the SDP is headed for the conquest of all sports institutions. He went to HNS first. Remember how it ended? Mr. Jovanovic wrote Platini, convinced him to do everything right. When the Croatian team came in danger of not even ending up at the World Cup, then he told me we will no longer interfere. We won't interfere. And so far we've interfered. Now you're interfering with the work of another organization. You've seen it hard there, we're going to the Olympic Committee now, now you're attacking here. You found sports television, it's invaluable as Mr. Matesha says, on the same day, at the same week we owe hundreds of millions, no one thinks about the deficit of a state that doesn't reach the same day and we talk like we do. I think every project needs support, especially one that supports athletes and that all of this you're talking about is pure demagogy and SDP's attempt to master through certain stakeholders and this organization. I hope there'll be a lot of athletes' minds to see what the difference is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77048	Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Boric, you are as usual very theatrical and I am glad that you are talking about demagogy since all your discussions in this House are full of demagogy and this. When you talk about the fact that Minister Jovanovic wrote me my debate, it is not true, I write my own discussions and Minister Jovanovic has too much to do to write discussions. But I'm really glad, and I knew exactly that you would say that the SDP was going to conquer all the sports organizations and I'm glad there's something that can be said publicly on the subject. That's not true. I personally and the SDP thinks that SDP is not a place in Croatian sport, we belong neither to the Football Alliance nor to the Olympic Committee nor to anything but God does not belong to you. Sports should be dealt with by athletes, not politicians. And we see every day how much your party is involved in sports. So when you say,... Well, here, for example. One main, one person who is the main entertainer of the Croatian public is a guest at those cartoons or whatever, so he's the star of these gatherings. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He doesn't come to SDP's gatherings of some kind that shake such a Croatian sport. My brother Sanjin, my brother Sanjin with Noah's ark, too. In this 20 years you have shown how much HDZ is in Croatian sport and how much it interferes and abuses it for its own benefit. That's what we all have to change together. Because we don't belong in sports, sport should belong to athletes, but you keep doing that, nothing else is expected of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77050	Thank you, too. Before we move on to the next line, I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues, the topic is that we discuss the Olympic Committee in the spirit of Olympicism and sports continue with replicas, with debates. And I'd like to warn my colleagues and colleagues without throwing them away. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77051	Dear fellow Djujic, I don't think anyone wrote you your hearing either. I fully agree with one part of the debate. First, I've never had a chance to say this before when you were speaking at the Olympic Club, it's not good when the Olympic Committee is rebelling and protesting the Olympic Club. There's something wrong with that committee, in that organization, not a good atmosphere. I'm still standing, I think sports television is a good project, a good idea. I'm sure the people who started there didn't put that idea into practice. Because I also agree with Mr. Matesh, it's very hard to get a good economic result in the first years. But I'm also convinced there won't be any positive results. It won't be because it can't, that TV can't be financed by its own resources. She can be financed by the bullets. It may be in some connection with Croatian television is fulfilling public interest. Sports TV. Croatia's television mostly does not satisfy public interest and we need to look it in the eye. Of course it's not our place to decide whether sports television stays or not because it's a commercial project. You know how it got. The other thing is, banks suck up money, so it's not bank help, it's some delusion, I think banks aren't here to help sports TV, but to earn money. The second thing is, there are at least journalists on Croatian television. You've got a cameraman, a cameraman, you've got a tech guy, he's at least a reporter. [[Intruder: Time is a colleague of Vuksic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77052	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Vuksic, I agree completely with your replica, and I also think that sports television is necessary in order not to confuse a good idea, a good project, Croatia. But again I will say no in this way, not through the Croatian Olympic Committee. That's my opinion. And I think it certainly belongs to her on HRT, which is public television, which serves exactly that, especially today, when we have four programs. Until the other day, we only had two. So there's room for one of those channels to be sporting. Here's just so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77054	Thank you. Dujomir Marasović replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77055	Your Honor, Mr. President. I don't know exactly if sports television needs it. If we don't need her, we can cancel her, but what I do know is she doesn't bother anyone. Who's watching her and who's not looking at her doesn't mind and everything's fine. But if it's necessary to shut down Sports TV, let's stop it, but before that, it's definitely time to cancel HRT. What did they do in Greece, what happened? Nothing happened. Because HET irritates the Croatian people, drives the Croatian people crazy, says he fought for what he shouldn't have fought for. He's saying he's going into associations that we shouldn't go into, he's twisting things upside down, he's changing history, he's changing the horizon, he's washing our brains, they're changing our skin, she'd want to change DNA if she could. And you from the party don't ask about it and it costs a billion and 400 million kuna. Since you are not ashamed to discuss a television that conveys children where they play something etc., it does not matter and it costs 20 million kunas, billions and 400 million kunas a year and not to entertain, not that it is not seen, but it shows continuous partisan films about Boška Buhi, Zagreb to the unruly city, and we all know that it was as peaceful as at Mass Zagreb for four years. You're talking nonsense and you want to return some things that are no longer possible to bring back. Let's cancel Croatian television for a month, two, three, six months, a year. There's gonna be a billion and 400 million left, and we're gonna be able to pay for this even if we don't watch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77056	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77057	Comrade Marasovic, you said you didn't know whether it bothers or doesn't bother sports television, or that you think they don't bother anyone. It does not bother anyone, the costs paid by Croatian citizens and which will eventually be rescheduled by Croatian citizens at the expense of the development of Croatian sport. The HRT needs to be abolished. I don't agree with you at all, I don't think HRT should be abolished, I think it should be improved. And when you say I'm talking nonsense, and you've already told more nonsense than me in this replica of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77058	Thank you. Allen Prelec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77059	Thank you. ... What you said was that only 0.4% of people watch sports TV today. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I've always been, since I was a kid in sports, and unfortunately, I'm not one of those 0.4% who's been watching sports TV today. I'm sorry. I would absolutely like there to be more sports on Croatian television because I think sport is a healthy part of our society. More kids should watch it, maybe less here Parliament and our debate. But if we watch sports television that produced 40, 50 million kuna at the moment of loss, could we use it better? Could we have done more to develop sports or perhaps better programs that would have been more monitored? That's the point. We need sports television, I agree. Is it Croatian TV or any commercial program, but we need more sport. Once, Minister Jovanovic said that more should be invested in sports but not for leaders and secretaries but for athletes. I couldn't agree more. What they said today was that the SDP was going to win the Croatian Olympic Committee. I'd ask how Mr. Matesha got into the Croatian Olympic Committee? Directly from politics. And now we're talking about politics on the Croatian Olympic Committee. I'd be for it if it weren't for the sport of politics at all, the less politicians would probably be better, the more olympics and athletes. And they'd be better on sports television, and society would probably see it differently. And now just one final. I read it on the portal a little while ago and it says one fan of God, God. Well, in this Croatian Olympic Committee, it's worse than in the Croatian Parliament. That's terrible!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77060	Thank you. The next replica, and the pardoned answer by fellow Djujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, Comrade Prelec. The ratings are only 0.4% and let's get this straight again. It takes sports television. So did I when I started playing football out there in '94, '95. The year as a kid in the NK Vinodol pioneers then in the New List on Wednesday you have a sports contribution called Victoria who handles youth competitions for the whole weekend, meaning reports from all matches etc. And we were waiting until the junior internship the most for that Wednesday and the New List to see, so that everyone reads themselves inside, and especially if you hit some goal, and there were goals. So you can see exactly how happy kids are and how much we're talking about this. Why not, and it's good to watch, say, cadet and junior games on Sports TV. That's something that's very good. But these losses that happen in sports television show that the business of sports television in this way certainly isn't good, that it should have entered with some strategic partner or that I'm going to go back to being able to function under the auspices of HRT then that would have been different. She should, but not in the opinion of the Croatian Olympic Committee, and not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77062	Thank you, too. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djujic, let's get back to sports. You said what's going on in Croatian football? Nothing. It's just that in six months, four billion people will be watching them. Nothing is happening and it means nothing to Croatia. And instead of the government in this difficult economic situation doing everything possible to buy some of the essential terms on these televisions to be transmitted, to further promote the Croatian economy and Croatian tourism. No, we throw that football in the mud. So he's not only worth it to individuals, but he'll be able to watch them by 4 billion people and those 4 billion people will know Croatian football ideas. So, this Croatian football has results. We can discuss what's going on down there for a thousand years. However, finality has a result. What is important when we talk about who is being paid from the Croatian Olympic Committee may be a mistake, perhaps you should have listed which payroll so it will be seen that not only are bureaucrats and others but there are other things. It's very easy to get into this home, and we shouldn't use it, words against the law. I have not seen from all this together that the government has written against the law, but if we are talking about this report called the Programme and Financial Report of the HoO then what is definitely from your debate is the most controversial of sports television needs to be separated from sport. Let's talk about it. Is she needed or not needed? And are we satisfied with how many sports and sports promotions we have on television that we pay a billion and 300 million a year, we pay for it. Secondly, when you talk about what a loss it is, do you know how much in the past 10 years, this also applies to the government where you participated, forgave public television taxes? Only because she simply needs Croatia. So it's not a good way to talk about a project that has a positive thing in its original part of that Nucleus. Whether certain things have gone in the right direction or the wrong direction can be discussed, but not to say that something is illegal or something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77064	Time. Thank you. Replication response, colleague Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, if you say that there's nothing going on in Croatian football, I can't agree with you. You're now talking about the team and the performance of our team in Brazil, the World Cup and that's nice. And I don't know when you were last at some football game of the Croatian League. Yes, Croatian leagues. Were you? Okay, I'm asking. [[Intruder Shucker: Every Sunday.]] I don't see you. Yeah, yeah, sit down and shut up. I'm at a HNL game every Sunday. What's HNL's ratings on average? How many people are coming to the games? And what's the football game for? For the football league or for the viewers? Are the viewers satisfied with the HNL? No, they're not. ... Well, football is playing for the viewers. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77066	Comrade Shuker, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77067	Yeah, you understand, you fellow Shucker, it's good for me to say. And we've been watching the past few days of the rebellion here's one club, former captains of a football club who want democratic elections in that club so they don't get it. Well, I don't know if it's a good situation for you in Croatian football for me. And I don't think it's for the citizens either. And citizens see very well what happens in Croatian football and what it looks like all together. And every once in a while, insults and dictionaries are inappropriate to athletes. You are an athlete yourself, so don't tell me you agree with everything in Croatian football, some leaders, how they express themselves and how they perform. All right, I'll be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77068	Thank you, too. My colleagues, so there's a business institute of replicas. Don't throw it out of the bench, please. Next replica, Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, I'm also going to repeat the impression of my colleague here your debate, your speech, so very carefully prepared with a very clear and obvious goal. So, the first prose and poetry praises Croatian athletes, you couldn't, of course, keep it quiet because it's true, and then follows the shoot with the roof sports institution in Croatia, citing a series of arguments that you wanted to support here are your attacks and finally your tone that you came out here for a pay phone, I'm accusing you of. So I believe that the president of HoO will be able to justify it. And your biggest argument was that and, of course, that sports television. If she wasn't here, I don't know what to do and how to argue and with which to make this accusation. And you said the main argument was 0.4% ratings. It's already been said here, I'm asking you, can you name at least three HRT shows, like the 3rd and 4th programs? You or any of your colleagues? Can you say any percentage of any show that has been watched, except here is perhaps the Croatian Parliament because pensioners probably watch when they are transferred to the 4th program. According to this criterion, it is already said here, the complete HRT should be abolished, at least for two months to be restructured and reopened with some new content. However, I agree with you in one thing, in fact, that this content should be returned to HRT and that everything that once was should at least reach that level of coverage of various sports right on HRT because we pay it a billion and 400 million kuna a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77070	Thank you. Answer, fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So if I had a prepared speech very well, I've been preparing it for four months now because this point is on the agenda since 12 months, and it's already been on several occasions, so it's off. It would be tragic if after four months I didn't have a well-prepared speech. I prepared him myself for information from my colleague, Boric. I'm not accusing anyone of anything here. I'm only talking about facts and there are some facts in my debate. If you wanted to listen, you could have. Also, I didn't say that the main argument against sports television is low ratings. Low ratings is just an argument that sports television in the future won't be worth the project as the gentlemen of the HOO say. The fact is, again, that by 2016 sports television will have over 100 million kuna losses at this rate, and the ratings of 0.4% is not a guarantee that something will be different. It's about ratings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77072	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77073	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you said several times that the reports were not correct but because of the people who processed them and prepared them from 29th to 48th, they were very well done and processed, very precise and profoundly presented. Therefore, that information is not correct. The second thing is your political decision in the party regarding this report and the second is what we have the analysts of the reports themselves. But I would love to see such reflections and such promotions with just so much investment in the tourism economy. What you have often repeated in your presentation of the report is that the Olympic Committee has been acting against the law, if the Olympic Committee had been working against the law and Mr Matesha, he would not be sitting here today but would be sitting somewhere where he would not be available to the Croatian public and to us in the Assembly to present the reports to us. Therefore, it is not in the report, and I would ask that the difficult words you have used stand in a report from a competent institution, not in a flat-rate assessment of such reports, which are very complete and analytically well processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77074	Thank you. Answer, fellow Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77075	Comrade Bubalo, I have pointed out that the methodology of the financial statement in this report is not good, it is not clearly visible. I did my best, so I took a look at some reports from the past few years. There are parts in this report that have been copying, pastes, which have been the same for eight, nine years. So, you keep saying the same thing. That's what I'm talking about. Methodology, I'm not happy with it. When it comes to illegal actions and you say that Mr. Matesha would not be sitting with us today if it were true, I do not claim that Mr. Matesha or any of his associates were doing anything illegal but the fact that the sports inspection sent her findings to the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, which means that in these findings something illegal was found, so they didn't send the DORH to give them a commendation for good work. I've never heard of the DORH giving praise for someone's work. So obviously there's something wrong. Whether or not it is, we'll see, it'll show time. I'm guessing that maybe some things are illegal inside. And I said which, but it's not good to get out of the context of my statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77076	Thank you and last replica, Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77077	My dear colleague, considering the overall context of your exposure, I would not like to repeat myself on the ratings of 0.4%. Your Government directly through the Pluralism Fund is pumping funds to media who have no obligation to produce content of public interest, who have no obligation to hire additional people, who have no need to contribute to neither sport nor culture, nor education nor anything else, and you have legalized it here in the Croatian Parliament. Tell me which sport has ever come into the stage to be economically profitable and not being helped by the media and, above all, by television, there is no, there is no ball of earth or ever will be, and in fact, the biggest revenues are always when it comes to a popularity phase and until then it needs to be helped by a specific project that it via advertising space tries to do so, regardless of what some of my colleagues and you said it would be better on HRT, so why did you bring in a contract between the Government of Croatia and HRT that you completely pushed out of the programming schemes and percentages all out, and you pushed out because you would get free media space where you can push other contents that fit in various political factors in the authorities in the Republic of Croatia and that have no even close ratings of 0.4% and have the salaries at least twice as much as any employee in the Croatian Olympic Committee or any specialized committee that funded. If that were how you'd centered your debate in that context, perhaps you'd agree with some of that, and let's say that the debate on HRT that we've been waiting for for for a year and a half might have made it even more meaningful and more complex.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77078	Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mesic, I don't want to talk about HRT because it's not the subject here today. If you didn't know we were discussing the Croatian Olympic Committee's report. You said the sport wasn't rentable without the media. So in part I can agree with you and whether 30% of the music program on sports television brings promotion to Croatian sport. Well, I'm very interested in how many of us are here and how many of us are watching sports television. One part probably so if you're watching then you see the program there. So you see what is manifested. So you can see that there's a little bit of a frigid approach to this discussion of what's being looked at there. It's not like that. Now open up here on the Internet sports TV program so see what's on the program now, here. It is not a bad project and a bad idea, but it is clearly wrong, and my opinion again is not a place on the Croatian Olympic Committee, it belongs on HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77080	Thank you, too. You took advantage of your minute co-worker Mesic and my colleague, Boric, I ask you to refrain. For word's sake, Mr. Zlatko Mateša, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77081	Honorable MPs and MPs. I must admit that this is the first time that this is about the Croatian Olympic Committee's report that the debate is in such an atmosphere, and I don't think I'm personally pleased with what it means. I will therefore only limit myself to what I heard in this exhibit that absolutely does not stand. First, the Croatian Olympic Committee with a state audit, the latest opinion of the state audit was unconditional, which nobody seems to be interested in has a commercial audit every year. The opinion of the commercial audit for 2012 is unconditional. In addition, the following controls were carried out, Budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance June, July 2013, fiscal supervision, June and December 2013, sports inspection, June 2013, accounting supervision of payment deadlines, December 2013 and budgetary supervision once again, budget 2013, December 2013. The recommendations of the Ministry of Finance, an esteemed colleague, in budgetary supervision are to bring the amendments and additions of the HAO plan in line with Article 69. Regulation on the work of public service employees with rules to comply with Article 70. Regulation on the operation of the HAO with regulations of public service employees. These were recommendations from the Ministry of Finance's budgetary supervision. You can really think whatever you want about the Olympic Committee or me personally, but please, until otherwise determined by anyone, the words of illegality and the like, I don't think they're appropriate. I was on one side or another for 11 years, and it didn't work like that. She was a sports inspector, brought in eight orders. Of those 8 orders we have fulfilled 7, 8. we could not, referring to the Regulation on the evaluation of the sports programmes of the National Sports Alliance that existed since 2002, but it should be updated. The congregation decides on him, and we cannot force someone to decide before the time comes. That's one thing. You mentioned the Croatian Olympic Academy and its beliefs. I will read to you what the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has said in its letter of April 1st of this year, which is that the harmonisation of the educational programmes of the Croatian Olympic Academy, so adult education institutions do not mean and cannot conclude that public documents issued after 2008, which are issued by the basis of the solution of the competent ministry are not valid. Well, don't be a colleague, I mean, it doesn't really make sense. Sports TV, this High House adopted the 2014 budget. On page 735 of this budget, where the tasks of the Croatian Olympic Committee are described, the financing of Sports Television stands. Okay, is there a problem? There is. Shall we try to solve these problems together? It's up to you. I personally think there is plenty of space, that it can be solved in one useful, generally useful way for Croatian sport. My colleague still said one thing in his presentation, this Matesha and that team over there, how you got there. I came here during Prime Minister Racan who was a gentleman. There is Vice-President Paliković, Vice-President Zoran Primorac, Vice-President Luciano Susanj, attorneys Ante Nobilo, Marijan Hanžeković and a whole series of other respectable council members. We're not a political organization, nor are we acting like one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77082	Thank you. We have reported three replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77083	Thank you very much. Mr. Matesha, that is why I have made an observation as to why there is no government representative here and I would ask you as the head of the Croatian Olympic Committee to simply point out on such practical matters how many people are mistaken. I'm talking about the budget, then I'm saying that those 1,000 pages of budget reasoning with the basics of the programming principle and the place where the cost takes place no one reads, but everyone likes... to discuss it as well as this Sports TV. So, what we should simply say to ourselves here, and what you said, clear and same criteria should be used for all public money, and unfortunately we have criteria for whom it suits and throws ourselves at hard words, but the same as who and how it fits, but everybody also likes to take pictures when someone comes from a big medal competition. Everyone likes to be close, everyone likes to take pictures, and everyone forgets how hard work is and how much money and private and public is invested for one such medal. And it is not good for any political reason to throw Croatian sport which is very much... with financial problems and the departures of young players into the mud. Why? Because if one thing is repeated through the media, if it's heard in a parliamentary debate, then unfortunately it becomes true, and I'm still saying that whoever was a athlete and who was also in sports on the other side, clearly knows how many parents and how much everyone invests in that sport and it's not fair against those people that we talk about sports today as we talk about sports. It's just not good and it's not fair. If anyone has any interests, then it is his legitimate right to say it clearly for the speaker, Mr. Matesha, you and the team must leave, come to someone else, but do not say that you are against politics in sport because I can list you in your Primorje-Gorski County where politics is quite involved in sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77084	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. Next replica, Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77085	I heard one thing, I'm not sure, so here's the question. Is it possible that the Sports Television Supervisory Board wasn't in session until December 2013, so nearly 3 years after the establishment? Here, that's some information I've heard, I'm not saying it's correct, I'm just saying what I've heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77086	Here you go, Mr. Matesha, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77087	Sports television, so, it's hao TV, society is limited to responsibility... to the assembly, so it can't possibly by our law have a supervisory board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77088	Thank you. Please, let's not throw it off the bench. Next line, Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I wonder, I don't know who my colleague Schooker had just replicated to me or Mr Matesha, since he was looking at me all the time and he was talking about the Primorian-Gorski County, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Matesha, Mr. Matesha, I don't think anything bad about you or your associates on the Croatian Olympic Committee. Most of my debate is based on, here I have here you quoted me as saying about the Olympic Academy's conviction, so we here have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this report that is negative. This is what we get all the representatives, you also have on the website of the Croatian Parliament. I will now only quote, since you quoted the last page 4 for the Sports Academy to me, the last chapter: "Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the independent sector for the inspection supervision of the Ministry of Education inspection carried out an inspection inspection in the Croatian Olympic Academy on which the inspection report was drawn up, and that a solution was adopted since 15 March 2013. It should also be noted that in December 2011. The Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education also conducted professional supervision in the Croatian Olympic Academy. Those supervisions provide an unlawful way of issuing public documents, and the expert oversight committee has concluded that the institution only manages the information on the establishment and does not keep records of the programmes of the participants and workers of the institution, etc. And so on." So it's not me who illegally beats it, my impression or something, it writes to you in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this 2012 report as one of the arguments which makes the government's opinion negative. So now you tell me, so if it says here that you're working illegally, that's not my invention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77090	Thank you. You can answer that. Here you go, Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77091	Dear colleague, I have read this to you from the letter of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports since 01 April 2014 subject to recognition of the Croatian Olympic Academy's conviction, the evidence is signed by the assistant minister of sport. So let's not build anything on this, obviously at a time when the government's opinion was given the circumstances of interpreting these regulations were different. It's obviously something different now. Me, me, or anyone else, or you, if you'll allow me, we don't need to build anything on that. Because it's about a whole series of coaches, professional people in sports that we need in sports where you can't get an education at our high school institutions and so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77092	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. There's a national minority club called Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77093	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Club of National Minorities as well as I personally strongly support the work of athletes and their coaches who achieve top results both in the country and in the world. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all athletes on participating in the Winter Olympics, especially Ivica Kostelic on the silver medal won. I am also extremely proud of the small but significant role of members of national minorities in Croatian sport. The Croatian Olympic Committee is indeed working on a large number of activities that promote and promote Croatian sport. However, I must show dissatisfaction with the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee in certain areas. Although it is April 2014 we are only now discussing the report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. I am aware of the process of making annual reports and schedules of topics per session of the Croatian Parliament, but it would certainly be more useful if the recommendations and remarks presented in the discussions could be used in the current year, which is not the case now. The total income of the Croatian Olympic Committee in 2012 is 131 440 000 kuna, which represents an increase of more than 6 million kuna compared to previous years. The expenditure side of nearly 139 million kuna is worrying, and should certainly work to reduce the deficits of over 7 million kuna. It is indeed a major asset allocated to the Croatian Olympic Committee and it is important that the process of spending taxpayers' money is transparent and efficient. The Croatian Olympic Committee is probably the most important sports institution in the Republic of Croatia, and for all athletes as well as the reputation of our country is important to its correct and transparent business. As a longtime professional athlete, as well as an ordinary citizen who follows the media, I am not fully convinced that the Croatian Olympic Committee has fulfilled the above-mentioned tasks in recent years at such a high level. I am particularly troubled by the fact that the Croatian Olympic Committee in its 2012 report lists the Sport Television programme report while on 74 pages, and we are not able to clearly and transparently see exactly how much money is being spent, and how the sports TV project has almost failed so far, and I think it is unfortunate that millions of kunas of budget funds have been spent on this unsustainable project. This is also witnessed by the lack of contract for most employees on sports television after 31.12.2013. Personally, I don't think sports television was a bad idea, but the idea was not worked out and it shouldn't have been realized in this way, and at this point. In the end, the fatter end was once again pulled out by athletes who received less funding and were particularly cut off by small sports that were not particularly monitored and financed in spite of the excellent results they achieved. As a longtime karatist, I am aware of the situation in small sports in the Republic of Croatia which often lack financial resources to train and compete in international tournaments. It is particularly difficult for these athletes in international tournaments to achieve top results, win a large number of medals, and thus promote our country. A good example is... karate... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] an alliance which is not allowed to be a member of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is certainly not fair in view of the great results achieved by the alliance in the country and abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For several years now, the alliance has been trying to become an associate member in order to improve its status and ultimately improve the results of athletes involved in the sport. However, these are not the only problems that plague small sports alliances in the Republic of Croatia. Many former colleagues, coaches and professional athletes often warn me about non-transparent, illegal and partly illegal activities that take place in such alliances. In this way we lose a lot of resources that are not used for training and competition which is not in anyone's interest. They cannot look back on the state of the Croatian Karate Alliance, which was awarded by the Croatian Olympic Committee in 2012 almost a million and a half kuna, which does not seem much at first sight but such sports alliances that are financed through the Croatian Olympic Committee have almost 90 million kunas. The funds should also be added to membership fees, licences and various fees paid by individuals and clubs. It is certainly necessary to work on the transparency of these funds. I was personally warned by athletes and coaches about the illegal treatment of karate alliances. It's about an alliance that doesn't respect its own rules on the transition of athletes, competitors from one club to another club. Such manipulation fictitiously transfers competitors from the club to the club in order to exercise the right to higher funds and the right to paid coaches through the Croatian Olympic Committee. Some, karate clubs are allowed to register competitors without stamps and prescribed damages by breaking their own rules. Furthermore, non-transparent is the way you engage professional... karate clubs and funded by the Croatian Olympic Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Karate's alliance since 1997 has had the same president who abolished the rule that only two presidential mandates can be granted. Nepotism and personal privileges in some sports alliances such as karate alliances have reached such a level as to create real family businesses that draw taxpayers' money. It is a moral and legal procedure that should not be in organisations financed by the state and taxpayers. It is certain that this institution is not only limited to karate alliances but also similar examples can be found in other of almost 90 sports alliances. In this way we lose millions of kunas intended for sports, athletes and coaches. By encouraging nepotism, we have a negative impact on the selection of the best athletes and the success of our country and abroad sport. The Croatian Olympic Committee certainly needs to introduce a series of criteria and rules on the allocation of funds, but most importantly, effective spending controls should be introduced to avoid the least possible use of funds. Sports alliances should also be forced to adopt a functioning rule that will allow the sports alliance to really work for the benefit of sportsmen and athletes. Also, the proper functioning of sports is important for public health but also for promoting our country because it is in the interest of national minorities as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77094	Thank you, too. We have two replicas reported. Mile Horvat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77095	Thank you. You mentioned the importance of the contribution of members of the national minorities in the development of the sport of the Republic of Croatia. Of course I think so, and that their significance was great. And of course I don't think national minorities should be mentioned in the context of sports, so we have citizens, athletes, a capable athlete, a good athlete or a bad athlete. However, each medal has both avers and regents, and so does this fact. You probably, I'll just say two things, you probably know the name of Ilija Smolenović. Let me remind you, this is a famous karate... Republic of Croatia, founder of the Karate Club Tempo in Zagreb, winner of numerous medals, recognitions, the most successful coach of Croatian karate, former president of the Croatian Karate Union, one of the world's largest judges, breeder of generations of Zagreb karate, participant of over 50 world, European championships, bearer of the black belt on the fifth day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's going on? '91. Someone finds out he's a Serb, and of course a Chetnik and gets kicked out of the Croatian Karate Alliance with this label that I said. He is forbidden to be more able to represent Croatian karate sport in the world and so is the day of today. And Tempo celebrates 40 years of existence and he founded it. Neither the Croatian Karate Alliance nor the Olympic Union has come forward on this matter. So he didn't say anything about the case as nothing was said about a life-long disqualification case with a ban on doing coaching and other business in karate sport judgment since '95. Do you know the name Veljko Kajtazi? That's our esteemed fellow MP. That's what I'm talking about. It is expected that at least there will be an attempt to rehabilitate these cases and there are many in many sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77096	Thank you very much. We have an answer. Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77097	It is true that I am familiar with Mr. Ilija Smolenović because like Ilia, there were many others who were then punished and no such suspensions have been removed since then. I don't know why, I personally know about myself who I was also for life because I was just second and different, because I was former JNA officer, because I had a lot of clubs, a lot of kids, and I was very successful, and I don't know about the second. But I hope, I hope those suspensions that are besides me Mr. Elijah and some others, that after 20 and a few years that should be lifted. That's one thing. Secondly, I think that... karate alliance kind of manipulates, because that's why in my very presentation to change the statute for the sake of my personal interests and I don't think that's right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77098	Thank you. Davorin's Mlakar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kajtazi, you have to admit, I followed your presentation but I didn't understand everything, so it encouraged me to this replica after my colleague, Djujic, spoke in a way that defended the government to envy him and Dr Zeljko Jovanovic himself, the minister of sports whose handwriting is also seen in the government's opinion. You were talking about small sports and you used a part of the time to promote your sport which is certainly both allowed and likable. But that's exactly what you seem to be making me one big logical mistake. Who better than some specialized television will give these little sports a chance that I won't tell them to gain the right of citizenship but to gain reputation, to gain interest and finally attract young people to deal with the so-called team. Little sports. Well, I think that one of the reasons for the establishment of sports television was that others besides these football players we listen to all the time, give others the opportunity to be present in the Croatian public. And while you are already defending if I understand the Government well because you claim that her opinion, the negative opinion is justified, although you have the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committee that confirmed and accepted this report, then I will warn you to be careful because when this government is already talking about the legality of the work, you should know that it has even illegally formed inspections in this case of educational surveillance in the Croatian Olympic Academy because they cannot be independent sectors within the ministries. It's against the State Administration System Act, so when call on others in turn, they should first introduce order in their own ministry. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77100	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77101	In my own presentation, I didn't say, I said that sports television was a good idea but it wasn't elaborated. I think I'm still saying that. That's one thing. And while, as far as the little sport itself is concerned, I wanted to sort of let myself know what was going on and what was going on in small sports because I don't think the Croatian Olympic Committee has enough insight into what was going on. And I think it's high time that, when it comes to Croatian Karate Alliance, I think I know the Croatian Olympic Committee exactly something, given that I've been dealing with 40 years and that I have significant results behind me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77102	Thank you, too. Mr. Zlatko Mateša, president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77103	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, just two brief notes. If you're looking at the report we're talking about for 2012 then I'd like to draw your attention to page 17. Please open up nicely and see what sports the Croatian Olympic Committee has funded in the 2012 Development Programmes. Judah, triathlon, squash, taekwondo, I'm only talking about small, jumps in water, diving, rock n' roll, hiking, fencing, skating, gliding, sailing it's a big sport, crinkling, biaton. So, a whole bunch of little sports. So don't think that by chance the other day our girls in badminton came to a sporting success like Croatia doesn't remember, that we accidentally had a swordsman in London, that we accidentally had a judo among the best in Europe. It's not the merit of Matesha or the Olympic Committee, but part of the system that exists where coaches, athletes, development programs are financed. Please, where are these reduced scholarships? Who? How did you even get that information that scholarships were reduced to athletes? It's just not true. Secondly, none of the budget money has gone for a television project, not one lip, but just our own incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77104	Thank you. We have two replicas. Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I asked before Mr. Matesha if he was the Supervisory Board of the Croatian, or SPTV. Since the financial inspection has identified irregularities as far as I know that on the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee, an initiative has been given to establish the Supervisory Board of Sports Television. Mr. Matesha won't listen to me, so I'll be right back. Yeah. [[Mathesh: I hear, I hear.]] So on the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee, an initiative was given to establish the Supervisory Board of Sports Television. Moreover, I think it was an initiative for the chairman of this monitoring board to be Mrs. Pavlikovic Gruden sitting next to you. Why, then, did this Supervisory Board not set up on the initiative of the Croatian Olympic Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77106	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77107	Because that, that's exactly what you said. The initiative exists and will be established and registered as is the case with Croatian legislation. So far he hasn't registered in... Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I cannot say that it exists and that it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77108	And the next replica, Veliko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77109	Here, let me just quote Sports News. "Because HOO is the only guarantee of all sports television obligations, our concern for future funding of national alliance sports programmes is clear, especially as athletes during 2013 are due to the savings of the already reduced scholarship." Here, I can copy it for you and I can deliver it to you. And otherwise, as for small sports, I have stated that karate has also been financed and that it has received a million and a half kuna but the thing is that certain fees, membership fees and licenses that the Croatian Karate Association is not available and are not transparently spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77110	Thank you. We're discussing the 2012 report. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77111	I'm having a really hard time polluting with the Sports News, but I can tell you what the official reports are and what the commercial audit has verified. I can talk about that. Otherwise, as far as writing Sports News is concerned, this could be a special session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77112	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. Kresimir Bubalo on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mateo and his associates. My colleagues and colleagues are in front of us with the 2012 Programme and Financial Report of HOO, and I would like to have a 2013 report already on our benches, but we see that the report was sourd months before it came into the parliamentary debate, and probably the reason that 6, 7 or 10 inspections came early to the Olympic Committee, so one 10 probably also on Sports TV, so now that we see that nothing of these inspections came, there was this report on our benches. In fact, I would like to speak on behalf of the HDSSB Club if today we were discussing the Olympic Committee and the situation in 2013, and I would even prefer the minister to be here and say which sentence might be about our sport strategy with a special reference to 2016, rather than God allowing someone to think in the government maybe 2020. And we all know that 2016 will come quickly and surely we want and the imperative should also be the Olympic Committee, but also us who sit here and all of our Croats to win the number of Olympic medals and to be successful in 2016 as we were in 2012 because it was the most successful year of Croatian sport in 2012. Looking at the investments we had in Croatian sport in 2012 how the Olympic Committee but also when we analyse investments by county, cities and units of local and regional administrations then we see that there is a very good multiplier, that Croatian sport but also the Croatian state promoted with minimal funds in a good way. But I want to say that investment in sports is always longer, even longer than our agriculture, which we often talk about in Slavonia and Baranja because when you invest in sports, you invest in young people. It takes 10 years to get to the top scores, sometimes more, and surely that road is not easy for the families of such athletes, nor for local and regional administration units, and surely when we look at these reports, I believe that the Olympic Committee would also like to have more resources on the disposition to help finance all the needs we have in sport. It is a clear sign that we should also discuss the strategy of investment in sport because, looking, someone mentioned the mecenaries in the Republic of Croatia, they are almost gone, and when we look at this financial report then we see that 10 percent or even slightly less are the original revenues of the Olympic Committee, the rest goes through bookies and in other ways. But this is a sign that the Croatian tax system must be changed and adapted in order to really come to a match that wants to invest in both sport and culture and other segments of social life. The Croatian Olympic Committee is... and the NGO, and when you look at the reports on the left, when it is heard that the government has not accepted the report and when probably this majority on the left will have enough hands perhaps not to accept this report although it is financially and analytically well done, and then we can say that it is the policy or political decision of the SDP not to accept this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what are the sanctions if they do not accept that report? I'd say nothing. Because right now athletes are deciding who's going to be president of the Olympic Committee, and that's good. Sportsmen need to decide about sports, politics should watch how to help sports and how to create and produce because we see that in the economy we are not very good and we do not produce. But then at least in sports, let's try hard, we're looking for common solutions to help the sport to make it as good as possible and have the best possible results. Croatia is a small country and it is certain that it is a great success to be at the Olympic Games in 25th place by the number of medals won. I want to congratulate all the athletes, all the coaches and all the people who care about these athletes, right in our community, on the Olympic Committee, and all the units of local and regional administration. What concerns us from Slavonia and Baranja is visible, I just spoke at another point, and about investing capital in investment in Slavonia and Baranja. But when we turn this into sport and culture and all segments of social life then we see that these investments are not evenly distributed to the Republic of Croatia and we certainly wish for top athletes that we also have top conditions in all parts of the Republic of Croatia the same that we have conditions in Slavonia and Baranja as we have in Zagreb. That our top athletes do not have to move towards Zagreb, but we also often witness that they are the best to leave the Republic of Croatia. Looking at our Olympic alliance, looking at the reports, then we must first say that we need to separate professional sports from amateur sports. The Olympic Committee certainly has special care and plans and wants as many medals as possible, as many top athletes as possible, but it is important to us that from school days, from kindergarten I would say age, and therefore I welcome this initiative that you started from the smallest categories just to promote sport but also by presenting our top athletes who promoted the Republic, I would say in all sports because Croatia is certainly the most recognizable of the top athletes, sports achievements and sports results in these 24 years. And looking at our professional sport, we can say that we need to change the legal solution so that those who invest in professional sport really have a reason to invest in professional sport, but we also need to take special care of children, from primary school, from high school because these are the years when they are recruiting children, they are directed by clubs, and we need even better selection, even better work in all segments. But the question that is being raised today is what opinions have given the audits that have passed on the Olympic Committee but also on sports television. We see that those opinions were positive. But what is asked is whether sports television is needed or not in the Republic of Croatia? I think sports television is necessary but I think it is necessary to close the financial structure for sports television. So, seeing as we're paying a subscription to HRT, then it's certain that we need HRT cooperation and sports television at a higher level if it's a national interest and certainly should be a national interest and promotion of small sports because often by watching HRT we see the league of champions but we don't see those less attractive sports and surely that promotion is important because if something wasn't on TV it didn't happen. Television is not a cheap toy, therefore it is up to the Government to decide whether we need sports television or not, but the Parliament has a very good chance and the possibility to direct these considerations in the Croatian Government, whether we need sports television or not, it is necessary. When we look at the way of funding then we see that HABOR has just funded the Olympic Committee and we welcome that decision. But it is also important that everyone fulfils their own financial obligation and that anyone who has made a commitment in the coming time does not use guarantees. I believe that from this work that the Olympic Committee itself is incomeing will be able to finalise sports television, I expect from Mr. Matesha here to give us in this section information about what his forecasts are for the next time. I know that no such project is done without a business plan and certainly a business bank in this case is it PBZ does not decide by heart, always decides whether it is good or bad, evaluates the business plan and I believe after their assessment that they have well assessed that sports television has a chance and commercialisation in the Republic and that there is an interest in such television. But the question that matters to us in sports is how many people live on sports and how much they live for sport. Well, looking at professionalism, we know that a lot of people who live on sports in amateur sports are important to us to recruit people and to have as many people who live for sport, who live for children and such educationalists we have on the fields of truly wonderful people. These should be highlighted, and such should be promoted even on such a television set as sports television. Although looking at the financial reports available to us sports television, we can say that for the past two years they've done it negatively, but I believe that this will fit their business plan and that from 2016 we will have a sports television that will act positively in the interests of both athletes and the availability of information when it comes to sports competitions but also Croatian League and Croatian athletes. I am sorry that there is no Minister Jovanovic today because the minister is on his way to dry the swamp. In two years of his term he taps into place and his incompetence the matter of discord precisely in his portfolio, it is about science, education and what is equally important, it is sport. Looking at the transmission of his statements after the government's meetings but also comparing it to these reports that are available then we see that the minister has been sending messages that do not appear in those reports. Therefore, reports suggest that the Croatian Olympic Committee has worked correctly, that there have been no objections to their work, and we have also witnessed that we can read and report, I mentioned these 20 pages earlier when it comes to reports of the Olympic Committee which have been working hard, which have been doing this for years. Therefore, if there is something and perhaps this Croatian Parliament does not know it then the Government is obliged to meet the Croatian Assembly of Representatives who we are discussing here because the word is often illegal. In reports and available reports that we have had the opportunity to look beyond this report that are available on our benches we do not see anywhere that there have been any irregularities that clearly indicate the use of funds not purposefully or anything like that. Therefore, by looking at the financial report as well as watching how many medals are made and what is done when we talk about Croatian sport in 2012 we must give a positive answer and vote for such a report precisely because of athletes but also because of reports that are on our benches. But often these days, we've been bombed through various media. Let's say one of the headlines, tells athletes they don't cover the preparations and at the expense of sports television they paid 610 thousand kuna. Well, I would also like to hear Mr. Matesha's explanation, whether such headlines are correct or not, therefore, we too are looking for answers to questions asked in the media because we often see that the facts that we get on the bench differ from media headlines that may sometimes be ordered or are in the interest of wearing out what we can't get around. According to this report, it is correctly written, reports suggest that the Olympic Committee has worked well, our athletes have won a large number of medals, promoted by the Republic of Croatia, congratulated them on that, and we are asking the Croatian Government a question, if you don't want sports television, then ask that it be abolished, but our opinion in the HDSB club needs better cooperation between HRT and Sports TV to promote both our sports and our athletes, and promotion of sports needs to be directed by children from the smallest age, and I have four children myself, and I certainly want them to play sports, to spend their free time in sport. But that's why I call on Minister Jovanovic, he often talks about the diet of children at the earliest age, I think it's good, it's important that our children eat, but more importantly, that as we used to have, that teachers of physical separation of children at the earliest age, direct them towards clubs, because at that earliest age, we often have children who are not focused, and few of our teachers are dealing with exactly these extracurricular activities, there needs to find space and finance in the forward ministry to help those professors to even better select children from the earliest age. Therefore, the HDSSB club supports this report and we just want to say, sports television is needed, but even better co-operation with HRT is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77114	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77115	Dear colleague Bubalo, in your presentation, you were wondering how to finance sports television, quite certain that sports television is needed and that, before some colleagues mentioned what is in the US, what is in Germany, Norway, I don't know which countries, I think it is hypocritical to compare with these systems, these countries and their money because here is the money. It is absolutely certain that the government needs to find a model of how to finance sport, culture and art. By its rigorous laws, under the quotes of rigorous laws in which it is detimized... nothing will be achieved. We need to talk seriously about this because we're going to die and the theater, because no one else swears because they still have to pay for the money and everything they pay for, they still have to be punished for being a charity. It won't. It means to stimulate... You also mentioned the drying of the swamp, the drying out, the only drying out of citizens' pockets, it was just one, one propaganda trick by Minister Jovanovic, drying out science, drying out education, drying out everything he touches because he's an incompetent minister. You've been talking about illegal business, you've mentioned illegal business several times, in the government's opinion, illegal business is mentioned. I think it's the sharing of labels without any trace, someone thinks that you don't send DORH, which you don't say is illegal and that you don't punish what's illegal. I don't think the government should play it that way and stick to labels that someone is unfair without proving it illegal and illegal. What is illegal and illegal is to be punished and then act, let the rule of law act, not to be nice labels.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77116	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77117	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, you said it was nice to compare us hypocritically with the United States, but it is nice to see that in 25th place we have won the number of Olympic medals compared to the finances that we have directed, so nowhere has the funds been processed as well as in sports, therefore we should congratulate all athletes, but also the Olympic Committee on well-expensed funds. But what worries us is that there is no clear strategy in sport, that there is not exactly when you talk about meth and people who want to help both culture and sport, that they are not stimulated, that they are detimized and you were just talking about the drying of the swamp. So it's very easy to get rid of if you think it's a swamp somewhere, we know in Slavonia and Baranja how it is, just when we're talking about channels and when we're talking about the beauty of space, this is exactly what it is about drying out pockets, reducing the consumer basket of us Croats, people living in these areas, it's a lot worse living than it was 3 years ago, and it's exactly how we feel every day in conversation around the field with our citizens, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, people who are very hard to live. But the easiest thing to do is stick to the label and you wash. So in all these reports, we haven't seen that these labels have room, so I'd like that left-hand side to say where that place is, that it's detected, and if someone didn't do a good job of sanctioning. But I have to admit, I didn't see it in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77118	Thank you. Next replica, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77119	Thank you. Here, fellow Bubalo, you've said a lot, clearly with something I agree with, something I disagree with, but I have to say one fact. You're saying that in sports there should be more athletes, and less politics, I think we all agree on that, but let's say now, we have a Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee which has 17 members. Of these 17 members, 1 is a representative of the Croatian Olympics and 1 is a representative of the sports commission, of 17 members. So, you're saying something that we are for athletes, and you're going to support a report like this. Is that right? I mean, I think they're in sports today, unfortunately some sports and athletes are marginalized. Today in the paper, we have a newspaper full of officials, here..., four alliances are looking for... the shift of the Mamic court influences an unhealthy atmosphere, the Chop Writer has informers in my ranks. We're talking about sports, and it's mostly about officials, sports politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77120	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77121	My colleague, I also advocate that he be as many athletes in sports as possible, and I think that's good, but we also know that sometimes politicians, especially in local units, regional administrations know how to help sports, especially those who were in sports before. So you have people who do politics and have been in sports before and know sports problems. Therefore, such people should not be neglected. But I would also like Minister Jovanovic to receive more often athletes, especially top-notch, to promote them. And why Minister Jovanovic did not receive the Olympic Committee's delegation in the past months but also send messages through the media. I don't think that's right for Croatian sport, you should sit down, so if it bothers Matesha, let Matesha tell him openly you're bothering me and move away. But that's not a message, is Mr. Matesha just being chosen by athletes? And an imperative should be chosen by athletes by the people who want them, who want to lead the Olympic Committee. Thus, in recent weeks, you have just been through media advances to direct from sports to politics, and this is not exactly what we have contributed here in the Parliament, but Minister Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77122	Thank you. The next replica, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully to your argument, there were things, and I agree with some things. But I'll look back only on two things. You said you believed that sports television would be able to finance itself by 2016 and that banks would not finance this project if it wasn't worth it. Now, banks are lending this project on the basis of guarantees from the Croatian Olympic Committee, and yet as I have spoken in my evaluation if this dynamic continues to be lost, the losses of Sports Television in 2016 will be 113 million kuna, which is the entire annual budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee together with the revenues from gambling, together with its own revenues, etc. So I think 2016 Sports TV will work positively with 113 million kuna losses and 0.4% ratings, which will eventually be remedied by Croatian citizens. Also, you said that the government had not informed the representatives of the irregularities observed in this report, which is not true, that is, I have already quoted to Mr Mateshi a chapter of the Government's opinion, or a negative opinion of the Government on this report, which we have received all the expensive materials in the web pages under this point where the Government is saying clearly what irregularities they are and which it disagrees with in this report. Also, you said that let the government say whether or not it wants sports television, whether or not it wants Mr. Mateša, the government wants only transparent and clear funding and spending public money on the Croatian Olympic Committee nothing more, and I think that's the role that this government plays in particular, the main role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77124	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77125	Thanks a lot, buddy. In fact, every bank decides whether to finance the project or not. It is also likely that the Bank of Commerce and HBOR have decided whether to finance the project or not. What I would like to hear today is Mr. Matesha's answer whether the business plan is coming true or not? So that's a question I'd like to ask, you don't have to replicate to me. But when it comes to losses, they arise, it's logical in the first two three years, and I believe that's the business plan, so I'm looking for an answer. But just when you talk about the transparent spending of money, it's also important to us in the HDSSB, but in the reports that we've been delivered we haven't seen that there was any intransparent spending of money, and that's what I've heard here. So, if we need to do it again, we can share all the reports, all the surveillance, and it seems to me that there were 6.7 surveillances on the Olympic Committee, 9.10 on Sports TV, let's call off the debate, deliver all the reports and we'll continue the debate if necessary. But the information available to me at my disposition doesn't indicate that there was an irregularity somewhere. So I'd like it if you had something to share with us, not to live in ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77126	Thank you. The next replica is Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77127	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bubalo, I agree with you the strategy is very important, where it is fortunate that it was brought 10 years or 15 years ago because you have touched the most important topic, which is the relationship between amateur and professional sports or mass sports and professional sports. Of course, sports is the best way to fight, especially in young people, against addiction and for a healthier and better nation. I think in general that we in Croatia hold to sports. When you mentioned that there are those who live on sports and those who live for sport and in the context of that and the mecenaries that would finance, there would be much more careful. Because you see always, whenever we talk about interest then the interest goes where there's capital, and the capital is looking for its own interest again. No one, and that's what I'm saying in the context of mass sports or those little sports, is hardly gonna get you any more generous financiers. I've personally been president of a football club for 10 years, you know, sometimes it's hard to find three kilos of sausage to cook with players. These are the things we meet. And now to get back to Sports TV, I'm about to have more sports on TV, and as far as sports television is concerned, and I'm being skeptical because sports television costs, a very ambitious project, should have good sports television, it should have good journalists, not journalists who don't know that in their field there can't be a backdrop. We listen to that, there were a lot of criticism and we heard when there was a debate on Croatian television, there is also on Croatian television to be clear, journalists who do not know the basic elements of the game and comment on the transfer, but it is not their fault easy. The press needs someone to pay for their work. And it is not certain, counterpart Djujic said that ratings is very low, that is, and when the debate on Croatian television was here, it does not mean that there is great ratings, that a large programme is produced, it does not guarantee it, it is not in direct correlation. And at the end of the politics in sports, I lost that illusion, politics will always be in sports, there's in county too, there is. When I was president of the football club, the captain who was from another political option wouldn't give me the money on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77128	Time fellow, bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77129	...for regular funding. And I'm glad that Osijek is pulling out of this, that it won't fall out of the league, but it won both Dinamo and Locomotive suddenly, so I immediately thought it was Mr. Shucker...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77131	...and, uh, not this Mr. Schucker, Mr. Shucker and Mr. Mamic... Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77132	Time, time is over. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77133	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague you've had a lot of replicas on my exposure but also questions asked. Namely, the strategy and I would like to discuss it. Not only a strategy in sport, a strategy in culture, in the economy, in all segments of social life, but also in particular the regional development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. What you mentioned was professional or amateur sport. I'm sure it needs to be distinguished, but it also needs to be stimulated by the mecenaries who want to invest in the dispute because the capital is fast, sensitive, it's never enough. And if we don't stimulate him to invest in sports and get those targets, then why invest in sports? A little while ago you mentioned sports television, sports television is expensive toy, and we'll agree on that. But I would separate the report that we have here, the report that we analyzed from the little detail that we have a small segment is just investing in sports television. And I think it's good that the Olympic board invests a part of the funding and promotes sports, I think that's logical, if we don't have a HRT a sports programme or program that's going to be much more related to sports than it's ever been before. But you mentioned that politics will always be in sport. So I think it's good, people who were in sports and today they're in politics to tie it up, it's not bad and they use their knowledge, knowledge and skills if they're good and they're in sport. But just before you said that Osijek... You meant football. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad Osijek won both Dinamo and Locomotiva, and I believe that the next ones who come to Osijek will lose as well. So I'm rooting for Osijek, and I'm sure we're glad. Because we have the best football school in the Republic of Croatia. But I am sorry when sometimes our, even young, children of 16, 17 years of age Osijek as a sales club and to survive such children and go to us or to Zagreb or somewhere outside, is the problem that we detect in Croatian sport and precisely the mecca that should help Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77134	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77135	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Bubalo, I'm also going to refer to this part of you where you were talking about drying the swamp. Because we're only in trouble right now. Mr Jovanovic entered the term of office with strong words and instead of us seeing after two years of his term of office really some concrete shifts in that part of it, it seems to me that he has become an active participant and... That he's very active in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that almost everyone who encounters him is offended, is belittled, and somewhere it ends even in court proceedings. And that's not the Minister of Sports' task, especially when science and education are there. He knew that sport was attractive and therefore often appeared in many events and everything he had done so far worked the wrong way. And he always resents another failure. And let's just remember three months ago, the budget rebalance. His failure to assess at all how much money he needed to end the year in one appropriate way. So he got 840 million kunas and then he forgot again that he was 24 million short to pay for transportation to all teachers and teachers. He just put it all back on someone else. And all the time, I've been telling those who are trying to do something against their projects, declaring them a failure and excluding themselves in it. I'll read one of his statements to figure out why he doesn't want anyone successful with him. In order for me to be a minister, four preconditions must be met. That I want to be, at all, that I have the support of the family, that I have the support of Zoran Milanovic and that I have the support of the citizens. It doesn't matter the order of conditions. I won't be a minister for a second if one of those four preconditions is missing. Here you tell me if one of those four preconditions is missing so we know if he should be the former minister or if he'll lead us in such a political way in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77136	Answer. If my colleague Bubalo will know the answer to your question, we'll see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77137	My colleague, I don't have to talk about drying up the swamp, Mr. Jovanovic, because I don't need to waste any more time on that, I need to spend more time on the strategy. I wish my Osijek had the same opportunities as his River. And I estimate that's why there's no strategy, because if there was a strategy in sports then we'd have the same chances and opportunities. And it's visible on the table, but also on the financial strength and possibilities that his River has more opportunities than our Osijek. And these four preconditions, which our citizens will best assess in the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77138	Miss twilight, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you said in your classmate's debate, here it is, if I'm going to quote it right now, a little teacher is doing extracurricular activities. Unfortunately, if it's been a bit of a deal so far, I personally think that there's been a lot of work going on with children, especially young people in extracurricular activities, but here, now it's going to be even less or less. In the swamp of Mr. Jovanovic, in general, there he coughs alone, wants to withdraw and enlighten. However, probably but certainly after these elections, there will be no more opportunities. Because you see, just teachers who act on creativity at a younger age, these are teachers of physical education, of art, teachers of music education are those who really work, which would be said in the spirit and the body of a child. And here it is, they're being taken away, you know, so I don't repeat and add to extracurricular activities, they're getting paid. So everything a teacher can take away from him. When they took the Christmas card, they said they wouldn't touch it. But here it is, Mr. Jovanovic wants to go with him to the swamp and education. I'd like to mention an excellent project that HHO is working in cooperation with an association, it's a project called "Thank you, Mom." The project "Thank you, Mom" really supports sportsmen's activities of a younger age. Here it is. But the whole problem I mean in all this is this government that is really pulling into the swamp and the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77140	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77141	Comrade twilight, namely I'm a professor's opinion you have somewhere professors where they deal more with extracurricular activities, somewhere less. But clearly, they should still be stimulated to deal with children just as they used to be. Because I remember when I was in primary school, more teachers were involved than teachers are today an example of extracurricular activities because both creativity and innovation and self-initiative should be developed. But what's very important is working habits. And that's exactly what sports do. Well, it's not stimulated enough. And Minister Jovanovic hit on salaries, detiming our professors, teachers, and sure as hell that's the problem. It's a long-term problem, because these are people who spend a good time with these people at school, with teachers, teachers, and who direct them just like we do parents. I myself have four children that are certainly important and how children will feel in school, kindergarten, and surely as a father, I want those teachers who work hard to be better rewarded and stimulated than in this case when they're cut off.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77142	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, I agree with practically complete your debate, but something is not clear to me. The Assembly Committee, as the working body of the High House, is in session 24.9 a month before the government will give this famous opinion. And watch. All the representatives on that committee vote for this report. There was a debate about sports and there was a debate about economics, no politics, nothing. Very interesting. And today after the government gave this famous opinion they suddenly changed their minds. But my colleague Bubalo in line actually encouraged me to do your last line in the debate. Well, it would be expected that if the government already gave this opinion to deal with elementary things, which is the use of sports infrastructure. Because it doesn't make sense that if local self-government units finance sports clubs then rent him a sports hall, so he has to pay 25% of VAT on that rent. And now watch. Let's say one club gets 600,000 kuna from the budget. Renting a gym costs him 200 thousand kuna. On these 200 thousand kunas, he must pay 50 thousand kuna of VAT that goes into the state budget. And now that I'm talking about how the money that's been given for sports television has gone to grants, where these money went rather than grants. And secondly, what the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports should really deal with, and these are school sports associations such as Nucleus, so to speak sports education in the Republic of Croatia, and from there all these talents and future medal winners should be ruined. And if the government gave one such opinion, then in one better and better way to use sports infrastructure and strengthen school sports societies within schools, then everyone would support it. And this kind of political, unprofessional, and I can even say a dilettante opinion that clearly points to a political direction no one normal can support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77144	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, this was under the belt, it wasn't sports. I'm asking you to continue in sports tone. Here's your buddy, Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77145	Thank you very much. It's strange to me, too, that my colleague Shucker was in favour of the Assembly Committee in 24.9. And today we see that this opinion has changed over time. But it's the same report. I'm surprised they've changed their minds. What you mentioned earlier about sports infrastructure. I did touch her in my debate, but she's very important. Even while I was managing the city of Osijek, we just shared sports infrastructure and terms according to the criteria, and the criteria were the results. And the city was just giving free sports infrastructure for that reason that we should still skin clubs like you said. So there's no need for that. The local administration units are doing it according to criteria, clear criteria. But it is also important that the sports infrastructure per school is also rented by clear criteria uniformly in the units of local and regional administrations. But what's the problem with that is that the resolute minister doesn't realize that from these small clubs there are nothing beautiful children, and these wonderful children right now from school should be directed to these clubs. But we don't have a Croatian sport strategy, and that's what needs to be an imperative and a resolute ministry, meaning a view of the future, not going back to the past, going back to something that was a few years ago. There were mistakes a few years ago, and they have to be corrected if there are laws. However, it is much more important that 2016 is not to talk about 2020 and therefore a clear strategy with sport infrastructure is needed, with clear people who run sports, coaches, etc. Therefore, there is what the minister does not hear a word about it in the media. But we've been listening to the swamp, especially since we often know that no mosquitoes come from the swamp.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77146	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ Representative Ante Kulušić. And if you'll excuse my colleague Kulusic, here you are, Mr. Mateša. On behalf of the Proposer, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77147	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry, but there were a few specific questions so that it wouldn't remain in the air. First, I was asked by a respected representative about paying 610 thousand kuna to sports television the other day. Look at your colleagues and colleagues, that absurd. So in the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee adopted by the Assembly we have the position of three million kuna support to sports television, in the budget you adopted it is one of our tasks. I repeat, look at page 735. At that time, the first three months we were incometing 900,000 kunas of our own income. And now, based on its budget adopted by our Assembly, with what exists as a commitment in the Republic of Croatia's budget and on our own resources, we pay an incomplete three-month tranche to Sports Television, otherwise it should be somewhere around 750 thousand kuna, a scandal. Newspapers, as he rightly says, an esteemed colleague, well, is that really normal? I really can't understand it, I think I can understand it. I repeat, very, very interested and powerful people have been doing this work for the past year, so that in a very, very perfidious way, they can come up with a concession that interests them. The National Strategy, Commissioner, was completed by the National Strategy by 2020. We will adopt it at the meeting of the Council on 12 May and we will instruct them to all relevant institutions to look at it, adopt it or everything they think is necessary, of course including the parliamentary board of our parent. The composition of the Council, Croatia is the only country in the council, i.e. on the Executive Board of the Olympic Committee, has something called the Olympic Club. No one in Europe has that. We insisted on it. And the vice president of the Olympic Committee of Croatia is Mr. Zoran Primorac on behalf of the Olympic Club. In addition, what we must have under the rules of the International Olympic Committee is so-called The Sports Commission. There's our celebrated basketball player Sandra Mandir. With her, Luciano Sušanj, legend of Croatian sport, Bosko Lozica, Olympic, Sanda Čorak, judaza, so I think those are the names that can really cause any pleasure with anyone. And finally, the distinguished representative's relationship with HTV, so someone said in the debate, so we wanted to set this up in such a partner way. Remember London, next to Germany, Croatia was the only country that broadcast all the sports from the London Olympic Games. One large part of HTV, one small part of sports television. In the law that you passed, article 40 states that HRT is obliged to give the right that she bought and did not use, that she must offer them to other televisions with compensation. They don't do that. And the greater value of the rights that have been purchased, and they are not realised, than is the budget of that television that has been bothering us so much. And finally of the archives, we did analyses of over 2 million people never saw in Croatia given their age of Croatian silver medal team in Barcelona basketball. We can't get it. Over a million people have never seen Goran Ivanisevic in Wimbledon, we can't get it. The archive isn't from HTV, it's from this state but it's not available.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77148	We have one replica. Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77149	Now, here's Mr. Matesha, in this presentation of yours, you just reminded me to ask you a question, and it concerns this particular media thing you just said that you have recently paid so-called. It's a scandal. Now I'm interested in that same text, it said that the Sports Television account is in the blockade for 172 days, so I'm interested here to have you tell us in this House the same state of affairs. Is this sports television account really in the blockade, how long and at what financial amount or how much it's blocked? And I would also like you to answer my question that I asked at the end of my debate, which I've almost forgotten, would you and your associates go to a private sports TV project and give personal guarantees when you're standing so tight behind that project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77150	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Matesha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77151	I'd love to. As far as this first guest of honor is concerned, you know what's interesting? This money went to the state budget because it was the remuneration of the OIV that blocked the work of Sports TV and they very, very correctly then withdrew those debtors and allowed the television to continue to work. So even that money we paid went into the state budget. As far as I'm concerned, I'd, I'd do it, I'd invest my money but not with this institutional mobing that exists around that project because of some interest groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77152	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77153	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Hoo with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is sad and tragic that there are no representatives of the Croatian government here today, obviously another proof of how much they protect and love Croatian sport. Especially because of what fellow Shucker said a month or two ago on the board, a report was unanimously accepted, and then, behold, the wonders of those who unanimously accepted the report after the government's decision are against it. The failure to accept or question the 2012 financial and programme report of the HOO is a serious political problem. In the formal legal sense, the non-acceptation of the report by the Croatian Parliament does not have any legal or legal consequences because they are neither provided for by the Law on Sports nor by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament nor by any other act. The Croatian Olympic Committee is an association of citizens or NGOs and neither we as representatives of the legislative authority nor the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as representatives of the executive government have any formal or essential possibilities to influence the functioning of the NGO sector. However, if we have doubts or knowledge of illegalities or irregularities in the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, then we should definitely inform the competent authorities and leave them to follow their own positive regulations. The financial resources for the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee were allocated on the basis of the decision of the Croatian Parliament as part of the adoption of the national budget for 2012 on a proposal from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 75. Sports law. In other words, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports proposed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted and directed the Croatian Assembly to adopt what the Croatian Parliament has done by adopting the so-called public needs programme in sport or financial resources intended for the Croatian Olympic Committee. Since we want to believe that serious people are sitting in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, I am convinced that they have not memorized how much funds they will give to the Croatian Olympic Committee but have already done so on the basis of a specific financial plan and the need for 2012 provided to them by the Croatian Olympic Committee. Anything else would represent the incredible sloppyness and irresponsibility of the people in the Ministry but a violation of Article 51. Sports law. If so, the only right to talk in the efficient use of public funding for sport would be to compare the spending plan for the report on the realisation of financial resources. If there were any discrimination or significant disagreements, we would have reason to question the presented programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. Given that the representatives of the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia have not offered us such an analysis, I assume there are no significant deviations from what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has granted them. It is also a fact that at this point there is not a single trial which would refer to any part of the report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012 or any other year. Neither the mind nor the fact that important irregularities or doubts in the financial business of the Croatian Olympic Committee in the public may be the most affected by the amended Assistant Minister Linic Mr Shegon, therefore the direction in which this debate is going and the possible failure to accept the report by the parliamentary majority has a significant political weight and is a political issue or political decision. From the fact that this is all about political decision and not accepting or questioning the Croatian Olympic Committee's report at the political level, we see the most serious problem. In fact, this political decision is the direct interference of sport policy in the most serious way possible and the most dangerous is the violation of one of the fundamental principles on which the entire system of sports rests at the world level, which is the autonomy of sport. Today's political colleagues from the ruling party and representatives of the Government remind me of what sports autonomy, sports autonomy and NGOs and non-profit sports organisations are all about means autonomy from all the influences of State or third party policy interference on the issue of organisation of democratic standards, selection and decision-making in sports bodies of all levels. Funding of sports from public or other sources and spending of financial resources, adopting, implementing and interpreting rules relating to sports and sports activities and other issues relevant to sport activities. In other words, sports and sports organisations, even if they are financed dominantly from the state budget must be independent of the impact of the policy, they must have financial independence, which includes independence at their disposal by financial means even when it comes to public budgets if I swear to it they respect national and international laws. This responsibility that sport has in society and autonomy that regulates itself has led to its credibility and legitimacy. Such autonomy means preserving the value of sports and existing structures of sports that develop in Europe, the world and Croatia. We obviously don't understand it because here we are discussing the Croatian Olympic Committee at a political level, which is an obvious political interference in sport and indulging in sports autonomy. If we had the knowledge that the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing something contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, then we could discuss such or similar discussions because we do not have knowledge, we are on a very slippery ground. Let me remind you of a similar explosion that Minister Jovanovic had with issues of autonomy, sports at the very beginning of his term at the end of 2011 and in early 2012, when he thoughtlessly and not knowing the system of sports and generally the resort in which he called and 8 called upon here, unfortunately, a hundred times today to dry out the swamp and publicly calling for the shifts of leaders in some sports organisations. At that time, even ambitiously buzzed at the world’s top sports body on the international Olympic board, assessing that it was selling chairs or mandates of members of the International Olympic Committee. Of course, Minister Jovanovic quickly shut up and gave up the reckless and foolish statements he made because he realized it was something much bigger than he was, that it was a world-wide organisation and organisation of sports, which is stronger, has a much stronger formal legal and traditional position than he himself has. Of course, he never dried out any swamps or replaced any sports officials and stopped speaking publicly to the international Olympic Committee. What is stronger than the advocacy of an uninformed minister is the formation of a sport that rests on important, world and European documents such as the Olympic Charter, the International Charter of Physical Education and Sports of 79, which was adopted by UNESCO, the Republic of Croatia has a duty to respect, then the Convention on Combating Doping, and many documents at EU level, and above all the European Sports Charter and the White Paper on Sports. All these documents brought by the highest political and sports bodies, i.e. The international Olympic Committee, the UN, the EU guarantees autonomy in sport and restricts political influence and the possibility of political interference in sport. So I urge you to stop these discussions and attacks on the system of sports and a modest sports organization in our country, show that we know that we are informed, that we understand the structure of sport and the position of sport in national and international legal frameworks. And I repeat, on every suspicion, in any event, the competent institutions of the state are obliged to react and act in accordance with the laws of this country. According to media reports, various inspections, budgetary surveillance, fiscal surveillance, sports inspection, commercial audit have already been overseeing the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and as I have already said, it is not known that no single judicial process relating to the 2012 report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee has been launched that we are discussing as well as any other period in the past period. On the other hand, all speculation, insinuation and plantings that do not bear systematic and unsupply damage to Croatian sports, people employed by sports and athletes. I will repeat, if we have knowledge that the Croatian Olympic Committee is contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, then we could conduct a different debate, but respecting all the materials presented and obtained, established and justified facts that we have received, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the report of the Croatian Olympic Labour Committee for 2012. And finally, unless you have concrete evidence for Minister Jovanovic and fellow representatives of the SDP and coalition, stop the haranga at Croatian sport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77154	Thank you very much. We've got a lot of replicas. We'll do a few, then we'll stop working. The first one was Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77155	Comrade Kulusic, you said that the board members unanimously accepted this report, and Mr Matesa gave a good definition in his speech earlier, an intellectual mobbing. What's the message that we're sending today from this House, just seeing that the board members who raised their hand for this report on the committee itself, on the government's way of interpreting how you've had the opportunity to read, obviously here in the Parliament, are against it. Is this a clear message to Croatian citizens, honest people, Croatian athletes? Is this intellectual mobing as Mr. Matesha said, to all of us, and also to the voters, in which way this government and here in the Parliament are clearly past the individual's opinion because there cannot be one opinion on the board positively, and here in the House we will raise our hands against. And I think that there should be more attention to this, the more familiar the Croatian public with all this is happening here because it is obvious that there are someone's interests that are contrary to the interests of Croatian sport, the Croatian Olympic Committee and these people who are running it right here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77156	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77157	Mr. Klaric, I'll do it again. Until the moment the policy got involved in this report, the committee unanimously brought and accepted the report. The moment the Croatian Government led in this section with Minister Jovanovic as I said in its debate, when it made the opposite decision, at that time and colleagues who raised their hand for this report said no, no matter what any inspection, which is no finding, and it would be a good thing that colleagues and Bubalo and other colleagues who spoke in their discussions, that the government came here and brought any evidence, any paper why they did not accept it, then we could discuss differently today. This is, it is visible to everyone and it is clear to everyone, a clean political decision against the people who run the Croatian Olympic Committee and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77158	Thank you. Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Kolusic, you have increased your debate with the claim that there is no... unless we adopt this report, so there is no legal consequences unless we adopt it, etc. And you said we should discuss it anyway because the public money is being spent. That's where we're getting along, we're just getting along, and it's not my intention as a politician to interfere with sports, especially sports that are Olympic and that represent us in the world, nor do I want to prejudge anything, especially if you're trying to impose through the debate, that it's some kind of humanisation or something. But what concerns me, which is my responsibility as a member of this honorable home, and it should be your responsibility to make public money available. Public money that was allocated on the Croatian Olympic Committee spent on something we don't know about. So this is a report of what a certain amount of money appears to be given to a certain alliance. For example, the Croatian Athletics Union... because it is the first, we only see, means how many fees are paid to the employees, which is the regular programme, which is the total of other special programming projects, so if it's about Olympic games or something like that. But we can't see how these same alliances allocated money on the ground, according to which work, which are specific projects, etc. So autonomy absolutely, but transparency in the course of public funds must exist and that's what I personally advocate. So, the responsibility of making public money available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77160	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77161	I can't just understand that you can say something like that. It has been said here a hundred times that there is no objection to any supervision, I will read here from the report that the budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance, and no other audits or inspections have established an accidental violation of the budget in the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee. I don't know what you're saying now that the funds have been spent on purpose? So give one argument that one kuna went into the bottle instead that it went to the Hungarian Olympic Committee, it's a deliberate waste of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77162	Thank you, too. Now we're gonna stop working, and we're gonna continue with the replicas after the break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77163	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] They're going to replicate Ante Jerolimov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77164	My colleague Kulušić, thank you, Vice President, colleague Kulusic, here in your report you spoke about the financial and programming part of this report, i.e. we can program this into sports and financial nature. So when we look in the sports section, those of you who have had a little sport or having to do with sports know that the only measure of success in sports is the result, either you have it or you don't have it. We heard today from the exhibition that in 2012, the most successful year of Croatian sport, that 87 alliances, which are members of the Croatian Olympic Committee, were to follow their financial programme, that 400 athletes were sent to international competitions, that 307 medals were won at European and world competitions, that 466 athletes, 79 coaches were funded, that 6 Olympic medals were also won. Well, here's the thing, anyone who's been dealing knows what it's like to be 50th, 100th, and not to say 1st or 2nd, or 3rd, wins a medal in any sport, even though in Dalmatia, they tell me "freaky" to play and that you're 10th in the world is a great success. So I'm surprised at the debate on this side of the assembly. When we look at the financial report which is another indicator, it should be stressed that in mid-2013 there have been 6 controls, inspections on the Croatian Olympic Committee, as much as 9 in Sports TV, and they have concluded that there is no uncontrollable spending of money. That's a fact, now the question is, what are we discussing here today, who's crazy here? And mostly these attacks on the sports television project We can talk about whether she's like this or something, but who's gonna promote little... kids, encourage young people to do that sport, on HTV certainly won't. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] The last football game to be passed Was it when Mr. Kulusic tried '96, what year was it? [[Intruding Stazić: colleague of Jerolimov, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77165	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77166	Comrade Jerolimov, you are right that success in sport requires a lot of effort and denial, but again related to the financial report, it is said that all programming activities, all members of the Croatian Olympic Committee, have been implemented fully according to plan and financial budget for 2012, including budget rebalance. Therefore, there was nothing disputed. However, the biggest tragedy is when we through sports, through everything that has celebrated Croatia in much more, far more, thank God that it is like that, than we politicians have celebrated Croatia, we all swear on athletes, and we all love in some way planted feet. I worked in sports and was a football judge, an international football judge before I got into politics, so I can rightly say that I came from sports to politics, not from politics to sports. Unfortunately, there are those who come to sports through politics. However, a lot of effort, a lot of denial, a lot of sweat should be shed to come to the Olympics, let alone win an Olympic medal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77167	A new replica, the esteemed Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kulušić, you said in your debate that it was always passing through, precisely on this side of the assembly your thesis that there are no irregularities in this report, that the government gave a negative opinion, and did not bring any single paper to support some of its arguments as to why this negative opinion was given, it is simply not true. So in the Government's opinion on this financial report, you have a series of irregularities that have led the government to give a negative opinion, and since, based on your discussions, not only now your own, but your foreign parliaments, so I don't know if any of you have read that opinion of the Government, which it says, you just stick to the Croatian Olympic Committee's report. Take a look at your opinion, and you'll see a series of irregularities that made this said. The second thing, I've already said that the sports inspection report was sent to the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, and we'll see what will be there and I don't know, I can't understand simply that for you 40 million kunas of loss of good business, that it's good work for you. I don't think so. Often mentioned also the swamp here today, it was also mentioned that in Croatian football everything is fine, today here at noon the breaking news on the diary is again some ugly things from Karlovac in Croatian football, just like what you fellow Boric discussed in your discussions. So, we also have a lot of irregularities in Croatian football, and that is also the organisation where you are vice president. Then you talk about the independence of sports, so often under independence, not only sports, but universities and other institutions also hide some financial marvels, irregularities, etc. We all shout independence, independence, and there's a lot of things going on inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77169	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77170	Dear fellow Djujic, you say there are irregularities, and I'm only interested in one thing. The committee that was sitting before the government's decision, I don't know if you're on the board, but your colleagues on your part have unanimously accepted the Croatian Olympic Committee's report. And look at the wonders, the moment Mark's church was given a signal that it wouldn't be recognized because these people sitting here don't like these people on the other side, on the other hand... the opposite opinions. For all the irregularities in football and in any sport where there are, there are services of this country that need to regulate it. And long before the sports inspection at any sports club, there was an institution of the state that was supposed to react. But what we got, what we got except that unfortunately the minister of the existing, the current minister who just, forgive the expression of spit by sport, by the people who run sports clubs, but the state has institutions that need to do their job. And if the state institutions are doing their job, then we don't have to fight here at all, and neither do I, and there's someone with me who's paid to do it and let him do his job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77171	A new replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77172	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Kulusic, we are witnessing today the fact that one party of the SDP has politicized this debate, all the way to the end, and this testifies what happened with the reports to this day. In preparation for this debate, I looked at the 2010 reports, 2011, discussions in the Croatian Parliament, none lasted more than an hour. Today we're going to talk about it almost all day, it was in someone's interest to put it that way and thus try to take a certain point for themselves. to try to differentiate sports workers and those who organize sports activities and who fight for those athletes to really get everything that belongs to them and to try and say catch some chairs. And for that they always find and dissatisfaction, for that they find arguments, but the fact is that Mr. Matesha today explains very well any ambiguity and any problem they put as a problem here in this home. What bothers me is the minister's behavior, wherever he shows a simple problem there, there's no growing grass or any chaos. So is this story with this report. It all says well inside, no one has hidden anything, they write the data that the credits have been raised, who gave them, when their maturity is due, it's explained the way sports television itself works, and it's all clear to everyone. Now, someone's politicizing it in a way that someone sent someone or DORH some sort of sports inspection report. How many ministry audits go to DORH? All and one, all and one. What does this mean, that all ministers in the current government are subject to some future action by the DORH?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77173	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77174	It's possible, but don't prejudge the story the way someone sent it to DORH, it's all bad or it's a criminal procedure right now. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77175	The replica corresponds to the respected Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77176	It is true that as you said this debate was politicized, and that this debate is going on all day long, and that this debate is in someone's best interest that it lasts, that this point should have been three, four, five months ago. We are here, unfortunately, talking about klanjski and not last year, as we say in Dalmatia, about the clanjski snow, and the clanj snow is, Bandic I think he said he was eaten by what came down, and now we're talking about it. This is exactly what we're talking about. Unfortunately, politics has become a big, fat part of the Croatian Olympic Committee. All arguments, all Mr. Matesha's arguments don't matter at all, and the most important thing is the thing you said someone handed over to someone at the State's Attorney's Office. All of us here as long as there is, anyone against anyone can take it to the State's Attorney's office, and that doesn't mean anything until someone's there, someone doesn't have some kind of shop proven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77177	Josip Djakic signed up for the replica, but he's gone. So they'll replicate the esteemed Nadia Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77178	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kulusic, you are in, so I will say so with my political speech in which you mentioned at least four or five times that there is no illegality in the Croatian Olympic Committee. So, this replica on our part, on the SDP side, you called the harp a Croatian sport with an argument that you said no criminal proceedings against the Croatian Olympic Committee and its leaders were conducted, and that the Croatian Parliament actually adopted a public needs programme in the sport of the state level for 2012. It is true that the Croatian Parliament has adopted a public needs programme in sport and the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012, but what is the fact that there is no funding for sports television in the programme. And all the objections that are going on this side of us are exactly on that trail, so no funding for sports television was provided. And during 2012, the Croatian Olympic Committee lent loans to sports television, totalling more than 2.3 million kuna, with these loans being not discussed on the competent authorities, nor were these decisions taken on these loans in, nor were the right decisions taken. Therefore, decisions were made regularly after that, only when the Croatian Olympic Committee was conducted, i.e. inspection was carried out by an educational inspection. So it's not just irresponsible behavior to me, it's also in a certain sense illegal behavior. Finally, sports television currently has huge losses, i.e. a huge problem that will certainly be spilled to business sooner or later, on the financial business and status of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Finally, those losses of sports television will have to be paid, and who is clear to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77179	Time. The replica corresponds to the respected Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77180	My colleague, I have not said and repeated several times that and claimed that there is no illegality, I only said that if we had knowledge that the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing something contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, then we could conduct such and similar discussions. Since we do not have such knowledge, we are on a very slippery terrain. I've said it again and I'm behind it. As far as sports television is concerned, we've all agreed here that sports television should and that these little sports should be transmitted. However, as far as I know, the share capital is not paid from budget assets but from the structure of the surplus income of the Croatian Olympic Committee, from its own income. These are business decisions, whether the business decision is good or not, which will be decided by these people here and by the Assembly of the Croatian Olympic Committee who gave an amen that this Sports Television can function. We all agree that here we are talking about 20 million kunas and the billions of kunas we give for Croatian television that has none, I will not say a minute of sports, which has very little sport, we are not talking about it at all. We're all into sports television, but sports television can't make money. We all know that he can't make money and he'll never make money. And it turns out that all the problems in Croatia have been solved by a sports inspection, that nothing has been solved and nothing has happened until a great minister with a sports inspection showed up. However, unfortunately this is not the case, the Croatian state has its own institutions that can handle it in 100 different ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77181	The last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kulusic, so listening to these discussions today, I must tell you that I am sincerely concerned about the football team. Because as the charges have taken place after some conducted stories, so someone will accuse the parliamentary representatives who make up that team from all political parties. And yet what I've noticed is that they're getting along great and having fun, someone's probably gonna accuse them of going to some dinner or lunch and it was some kind of mythology. So that's the level of debate we're having today. Because it's not clear to me, Mr. Matesha reads this report of one inspection, the findings of budgetary surveillance, and that was all there until, these findings were up to the government's decision, about not accepting the report, to the government's opinion. And the government is calling for something, and now I don't know what these documents are, if the Croatian Olympic Committee has one, to which the documents are called by the Government. The second thing is, is it a sports inspection to control the structure of sports clubs, whether they work by law and whether their acts are in accordance with the law and whether they are educated enough to control and to make a finding of a more complex financial transaction. Or it may be controversial that it took 24 hours for this transfer of funds between the Croatian Olympic Committee and Sports Television to save sports television, not to be destroyed, because apparently someone has already put their paws on and thinks that sports television is his or something else. But from this debate, it's amazing, being on the board and discussing it like this. Perhaps we should share the board’s opinion because apparently many have forgotten what they have been saying. Because this debate is in the spirit of the Parliament's football team, everyone's thinking, thinking, sports thinking, and loving sports. And the opinion And the opinion of these same colleagues today is different. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77183	And you have two minutes like everyone else. Reply to the replica Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77184	Dear colleague Schuker, the Parliament football team really agrees and I must say that the Croatian Football Federation has also sponsored several times the uniforms for the Parliament football team whether it is illegal or not. And during this term of office and last term. And I don't think that's a question. I agree with you colleagues that a sports inspection must control the acts of certain sports alliances, certain sports clubs, that must be her primary task. And on irregularities and illegal actions, this country has services, this state has institutions that could do this, which could do so before the arrival of a famous sports inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77185	The president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Honored Zlatko Mateša, has now come forward. Here you go. Please welcome to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I really don't want to take up a lot of your time. My intervention refers only to the presence of a distinguished representative. If you are looking at this report in front of you for 2012, it shows that your own income from various basics was somewhere over 16 million kuna. There is no reason why the competent authorities of the Croatian Olympic Committee could not have their own incomes in accordance with their powers. What reasons would that be? These are the Croatian Olympic Committee's own revenues. And if the Croatian Olympic Committee makes its decision on a loan, and if later that loan turns its own funds into core capital, it is absolutely possible and legal. Why should that be controversial?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77187	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS MPs' club, the respected Nada Turina-Đuric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77188	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Matesha, Mrs. Palikovic. Well, first of all, at the beginning on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we have debated something that I think is our country's pride, which is our athletes and their natural successes and all that they have done on this sport plan and also in the promotion of the Republic of Croatia, we have reduced it to a very ugly political debate in which there has not been much talk about the content of this report. In essence, what I would say on behalf of the CNS, the report as such for someone who is not particularly well aware of the functioning and work of the Olympic Committee may not be sufficient at certain points to explain that the actual content behind the mass of figures that we have received is not enough. But what I think can be said is that in 2012 the year we are discussing today and if we focus on that 2012 in general on sports and what is the essential work of the Croatian Olympic Committee could be said that this year was successful and that we should actually praise the Croatian Olympic Committee for having succeeded in doing everything it had planned for itself, respecting all the financial obligations it had also done, where all the supervisions according to what we see in the report itself have passed with a positive assessment. However, of course, we extended this debate on the content of the 2012 report to a wider story. And one of these is, which is partly in one part of that report, which is sports television and its establishment. We started an eye, and the most we could do was stick around that story. And about how many losses there are piled up and how much it's really costing and whether it's necessary at all. And in fact, whether it is necessary, or how much it costs and how many losses we will most likely hear in the 2013 report, and I think that perhaps we should take a closer look at this, strictly on the part and ask about it. But since everyone said something about it, then I'll say it on behalf of the HNS Club. So no one argues that Croatia needs one programme, I would dare say a public programme that monitors sports. For all the reasons that my colleagues have already spoken before me, which is that one good part of sports and some lower levels of competition is simply not for commercial television and not for public television enough to be broadcast as a single programme. So, like a program dedicated to sports. We think there's been one mistake, no matter what the intention was, and that's that we have one program. I've been working hard these past few months, so I've often turned to this sports program to see what I can see there, and I've asked some of these guys who watch sports programs more often than they can see there. Unfortunately, except for one part of the content that applies to these less interesting sports and refers to our athletes, but it's a small part of that program. Most of this programme is actually dedicated to some sports that probably nobody in Croatia will ever deal with. And it bothers me that I have such a program where you have a competition I don't know exactly how that sport is, but it's probably a horse sport, so in the carriages, they're competing who's going faster. That, here it is yesterday it seems to me it was during a very long period of time in that sports television program. So that's where we're all full of praise, and I'm sure we need that. But that kind of thing where you carry some of these things, it's actually foreign shows that I don't know where they all come from, where they're being followed by these competitions. I think if that was the goal then I think that television, the goal that I was talking about, then I don't think this television with that kind of program is meeting it. What would certainly be good, and what was the timely intensification that Croatian television thank God has 4 programs, so let's say that one we can call informative, and then the other we can call fun-informative, so the third would like to be as cultural as I can evaluate from the outside. And the fourth that deals with some kind of political mosaic theme, so that of those four programs we weren't able to produce through state television one quality sports program that would not only naturally follow small sports, but follow all sports. But who would have had the grounds to be commercial enough through the tracking of major sports and commercial sports, i.e. to obtain funds. And we know that sport is seen and that this part of the commercial part of that program is very well cashed in, that funding then and monitoring all these sports that are conditionally said small sports or not enough. I can't believe they're not exposed enough. I can't believe that we didn't have that power and that, television is a terriblely expensive sport, that the Croatian Olympic Committee took part in it. It's hard for us to think it's going to end well financially. As much as we can all be here to support it financially, it's hard for us to succeed. And anyone who knows and knows what television is will tell you no matter what study of the performance of this project has been done and where it is said that through what time it will be worth. Now, here's some information that my colleagues used to say before me, it's going to be very hard to do. But I'd go back a little bit though, so it's about that sports TV that I'm going to say is probably a subject for 2013. This 2012 according to our assessment in these programming basics in the planning of funds, etc. More or less, it seems to me that apart from what I've pointed out, maybe more transparent parts of that report should be clearer in reasons. What and exactly what and how these funds are spent, because it's relatively hard to read for someone who isn't 100% in it. What we haven't touched today, and let's say I'm interested, so here I'm going to take the opportunity, somewhere in that report I saw that the work is planned on, not work, but investment in the Olympic Centre on Silba. I wonder at what stage this project is, where will the funds be found? Why would I ask that? Because I know that we had an Olympic center or we still have it, and I don't know what status it's in at the Whitelights, who's had his own death, the fire that's already happened, and what I know right now doesn't work. Currently, correct me, obviously Croatian athletes do not have one such place which is basicly equipped to receive athletes of various profiles on sports preparation in at least only decent conditions, and that behind that stands the HOO. At least I didn't see in the report that there was something about it. So I'm interested, i.e. we're interested in the HNS what's happening with the Bjellolasica HOC and what's in general with the projects of some centres that have already been discussed through the media, and it is necessary for Croatia to build up certain sports and that, in principle, if nothing else stands for HOO and, above all, with its professional attitude. Also, we in the HNS believe that sport as such in this report, although in a narrow sense looking through the HO but also wider looking at Croatia, would have to and with the support of the HOO but also other institutions in charge of sports in Croatia can have a developmental economic character related to both health and tourism and the economy in general. I think that the report also mentions what is actually possible that by developing projects in sport from infrastructure to some events it can have a significant impact on the better economic situation or that economic operators can relate to sport. What has been used very well in some countries, especially in ours, given that we are proud of the whole series and the Olympic and other medals from world championships and that we are famous for it. And certainly some outside the RH athletes and those who like sports would recognize us in that sense if they had quality projects behind which I think the HO should stand. And the report only mentions in some cartoons what the HoO is doing in that sense and what it is doing to improve it. What is certainly not good, and this was visible from the political debate, is this one political division and political what, unfortunately, politics entered the butig of sports a long time ago. Get in at all levels. It starts out there somewhere already in our municipalities because almost every other head of the municipality or mayor, the president of the football club or I don't know the basketball club depending on which one's stronger and then it starts. Because, of course, all these clubs are thinking in a way that if my chief is here, then I'll somehow be able to finance, or they'll be more generous when he proposes the budget. And according to that system, politics already means at that lowest level, it's in the sport. Of course we can't, and we won't have the ambition to ever get it out of the sport completely or out of the sport, but I think it should be the other way around. It should be not that politics enters sports but that we have something called sports politics, or sports politics. And, of course, we as politicians, no matter where we are, should be involved and co-operated on that. And this division that happened in the debate, I think it's just coming from the fact that we can't achieve the cooperation we need from that political division. And there is a need for co-operation of key meanings of institutions and ministries that are responsible for this to develop sport. So on behalf of the CNS, I would end this debate with an appeal to everyone, meaning to reduce the egotistical and whatever other impulses we all have as humans, and in politics it's particularly expressed, to cut it down and sit at the table and to have something good, fundamentally we have good, and our sport is good, to do everything to make it better, to make these reports even better, to make the right choices, and to eventually admit that we've made a mistake somewhere. If we're wrong about sports television, then whoever made the mistake admits it, and no one has any intention of hanging it, but maybe to prevent any other future failures, failures that would result from persistent pushing something that has no chance of continuing to fall in the wrong direction. Here, I would like to conclude with that the debate on behalf of the HNS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77189	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first came to you, the Honorable Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77190	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Turin, you said in your debate, we all have our mouths full of praise, which we need, but the message is to shut it down. So, in a political sense, it's pure demagogy. So if we want to praise it, if we need to try to find a way to keep it, not to shut it down, and then bring this debate to the level of absurdity where political assessments of the entire left coalition are the reason why we are talking about a correct report today in a completely different way. And we forget these 307 medals, all the effort invested in this, the monitoring by the Croatian Olympic Committee in the part where he was obliged to follow those 307 medals and talk about 2022 and what this television will bring from the loss in 2022. And then we get lost because at the same time, the business decision of a public firm that's dealing with loss is a perfectly normal thing. Who's gonna make it up to you? Croatian citizens lose that loss. The completely wrong decisions of private business entities that ended up in a pre-departure settlement for which this government keeps all data on the amount of debt written down, on the amount of funds entered into the state budget, it's a perfectly normal thing and nobody slows it down, these were normal business decisions. We're putting a legitimate problem here. And you took a good picture of your government's policy at the Croatian Olympic Centre of Bjellolasica. Burned, the rest, destroyed 10 fates, business, 10 jobs and no one cares. And where's the money, for example, for consultants? 200 million kuna is an excellent job. Great, we're doing great. So give some of these funds to this Croatian Olympic Committee, and everyone will be pleased. But you don't want that, you want something else, you want to politicize and question the functioning of the roof organisation of Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77191	A new replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Turina-Đurić, on your exposure, I was actually moved by something that you pointed out well. I think maybe it's best amongst the speakers so far, and that's the difference between big, so-called. big and small sports. Indeed, some sports have the potential to be just funding, not only self-financing but also to bring profits. Although I wouldn't get into a deeper discussion right now, that's what I'm going to do in my individual debate. But what I mean is when you already touched sports televisions amongst others, like sports television that acts like d.o.o. So it can't make any revenue, it can't be a profitable project unless it also delivers sports that are profitable. So, in my opinion, I agree, like everyone else, we need sports television, we need sports, especially sports that aren't that popular, or they're not that popular. major sports, but I think that public television could be very well realized and that this project was simply too ambitious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77193	The replica of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77194	Mr. Vice President. Well, Mrs. Turina, you said it wasn't an ugly political debate and that it had turned into an ugly political debate, I'd say it wasn't an ugly political debate, but it was necessary given this government's position because this is a sports association. You've been saying all along that politics needs to be removed from sport and we're just talking politics on our own. I said that in sports, the measure of success is the only result. And these people can be raised with the result in 2012 but in all the years that preceded that year but in all the years that preceded that year 2012. But I would ask you the parent board gave a positive opinion on this report, you have the majority, the ruling coalition on that committee asked you what happened to you. What happened to you in the meantime, did you get some twitter syndrome or did politics get involved exactly as you say in sports. I'm glad to hear that a young colleague says that we need sports television, of course we do, we need to see the size but we need it because it promotes both young age and category, all kinds of sports. I can understand that someone doesn't care about all sports. But how much the meaning of television is best and the general media shows your exposure where the medium manipulates you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77195	New replica of the esteemed Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77196	Dear colleagues, I would agree with your thesis that we really need a sports television program that would be exactly the way you described it. I've been the same since the 9th month since this was a little bit of a watch, I have to admit I've been amazed that not even daily or weekly newspapers in their daily information schedules have at all been described by the program, so the schedules of the Sports Television programme, which, in part, speaks of the relevance of that programme. Then I tried a little hard, and I watched it through certain apps on the Internet. Your schedule is like this, today you have a replay of two games of the first football max league, as it's called, so two games that were held last weekend and you have a walkboard competition and Abu Dhabi and you have an opportunity program related to three years, or I don't know how many years of sports television. Tomorrow again two games max that first football league that was held last weekend which is actually uninteresting because everyone knows the results and has, say, a video of Eindhoven swimming championship held a few months ago. And when you look at that program, he's basically like that. Two replay games last week's football car that took place a weekend ago and a little bit more or less of an archival program plus something here and there. Today is good, I must say, let's say the finale of the euro water polo cup is transferred. So basically there's no content there, especially the contents of what we've heard a lot about here today, these are younger categories and smaller sports. There's this thing that's pretty much to buy, it's my assessment on the international market, a lot of poker, let's say there's a lot of poker on Sports TV and there's reruns of these which are quite less relevant from sports. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77197	Last replica, Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we are all day talking about sports, and I think that's good, but we talked about sports TV the most. I think we can all agree that sports should be as much on TV as possible. However, we talked a little bit about some other things, let's say that sport is not funded only through the Croatian Olympic Committee. Units of local self-government are detached from their budgets. 1.2 billion kuna for sport. Unfortunately, sport is the most talked about football, investing in football, in handball, in the most attractive sports. And we're talking a little bit about those other sports. That is why I would agree with my colleague Đurić, who has encouraged one such thing, and I would say an affirmative question, and that is, I think it should be a proposal for the Croatian Olympic Committee, that this Croatian Olympic Centre may have some other way. Unfortunately, what happened, the fire, it wasn't in the right sense, nor did it come to life as we would like. I've been there a few times on the whites and I've skied and I have to say that's one possibility of good skiing. When we talk about Croatians being good skiers and we're not talking about Janica and Ivica who really have a voice in the world about skiing. We should really do something perhaps from those 200 thousand Croats who go skiing every year and who leave outside for skiing hundreds of millions of kunas, to maybe encourage this one story about the Croatian Olympic Centre on Beolasica but also to invest there to become a centre from winter tourism, and I think we should just put it all together deserved, especially athletes who are engaged in sports like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77199	The word is now requested by the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Honored Zlatko Mateša, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't want to talk about television. I'm obliged to answer to the lady. And to Mr. Whitelight's representative. We only gave the white-haired girl a name. So, the Croatian Olympic Committee does not have any ownership stakes in Belarus, Bjellolasica is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, everything that has happened has happened, but I must say, in our opinion and the sighting of Bjeolasica is a typical project that can be run for funding from the European Funds. We studied well everything they did with their help from our colleague in Slovenia. They are just finishing up a large Olympic centre on the Planica, they have restored Pokljuk, a whole series of other parts of sports infrastructure, and I think it would be good for this High House to give the initiative to approach Bjelalasica in this way and that, in fact, through the integration of sports recreational, economic and tourism works and the regional development of this relatively lagging area, one useful thing is actually done. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77201	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, the honourable representative Mladen Novak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77202	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Matesha and his associates. Well, it's hard here to say something that hasn't been said today, and in any case, I agree with all those speakers before me who have found that unfortunately, quite often this debate went the wrong way and pulled something that, frankly, I don't think is appropriate for this agenda point. Why is that? So let's be honest, we can fool ourselves, but the fact is that the government's opinion that negatively caused these reactions is now the representatives of the ruling coalition have been practically brought into a position that they have to further argue with the government's views. On the other hand, the same MPs sat with me on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and unanimously with 11 votes to support this report. Now, I think he's already saying it in himself enough, but just for those who weren't present on that committee, here I was making my own report making notes and the debate was really constructive and I have to say that it was just the representatives of the SDP who were, say, the last item I wrote to myself, the last observation of the relationship between the Ministry of Health, given the frequency of tragic events on sports grounds, and it's unfortunately, right now in the area where I come from, one such case happened, and I think it was you colleagues who mentioned it. I think that the debate on the committee itself was indeed on all sides regardless of which political options someone came from and by you as rapporteurs of the report that the debate was both constructive and well-intentioned and in good tone was going on, so it is certain that these events today are the visible product of this opinion of the Government and that the worst of all I think is that there is unfortunately a re-expression here, let's call it a little harsh temperament of the minister who sometimes is too harsh and then comes into a situation that after a day, two must apologize either the work of Croatian citizens or the entire Croatian public. What is also not crucial to me but especially is not for this report, but what bothers me as a representative in this House is a fact and in this opinion it says that the government's position before the Parliament at this session will defend or explain Minister Zeljko Jovanovic, Mr Sasa Zelenika, or possibly Petar Skansi. Then why aren't they here? That's another one, I think now I have to be a little bit less than saying, abuse the situation, so I'm going to make a connection with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure that the Secretary-General can't come to the board's meeting for two and a half years, we're calling the thematic sessions all together to say not to mention the ridiculous and sad situation, but it's obviously a reflection of how much he's holding on, not just us MPs from the opposition, but also to representatives from his own parties. And in the end, what kind of behavior towards this House is what we like to say to this House of High that should be, not to say the top of everything in Croatia. I think it's really extremely inappropriate, but since this power has obviously become the usual way of working. At the board meeting, but here I am today, as well as a good part of my colleagues, to mention that everything is neither wonderful nor wonderful about this and in this regard, it's not any poisonous arrows but well-intentioned clues to something that we think should be fixed, done, fixed in the future, to make it better because it certainly can. Someone mentioned, not someone, today a lot of people mentioned those loans here, and those loans were really, especially the way they were presented here in some materials, the type that didn't go into the record because it was the last item of the agenda and it was not heard, I don't think it's really a place to discuss it here, especially not in such a way, and that if it really happened there's someone who has to deal with it and how to deal with it in such cases, and if there was an irregularity then in any case we need to get some reasoned report on the basis of which we can then discuss, and this is, unfortunately, too much of what we've heard, said, said. The part that must have bothered me is the disproportionate pay and separation for the entire program and strengthening projects, the promotion of sports at local level. This is also mentioned at the Committee session and we are talking about the 2012 report, so we are talking about what is standing here, regardless of all the changes that have happened in the meantime, but with the right to do so people are bothered. A few speakers here mentioned a report submitted to the DORH. So don't move it, especially you on that side, given the current situation, none, no one can say it's dedicated to DORH and now it's his fault. It's not his fault, even though we have a situation now that some of them are in custody, so we can't say they're guilty. As much as the president of the strongest party, and the prime minister himself, the other day, has found it until someone is convicted, until he's guilty, and now we're putting people on the cross here, and it's dedicated to someone, some organs, and they're guilty. It's nobody's fault, although since this is the 2012 report, I believe that all these people would already be sitting in Remitenza that this is how it was presented here. I don't think it's going to work out for us either, it's not going to do us any good, let's say a pretty low level of slapping with that kind of argument. Here is probably the most common of all the problematic things mentioned Sports TV, and it is certain that this sports television with its figure, or loss that has produced if I am not mistaken for some 38 million kunas in my eyes. But let me know since it's not commercial television and that the stunt is better, we all agreed, on all sides comes thinking "we need it," we need sports television, we're unanimous, we're full consent. Now, I believe that if I were to do a little bit without, not to say these lower ones... if we were to go into debate, that all of us would also be unanimous in the conclusion that television should, but it's the wrong way that it's being led and there's now li-la how much from this time-out we can talk in the right way about it. But the fact is, I think everyone up to one who's ever gone to watch that program is all unsatisfactory, but they're dissatisfied at the same time... attractive sports, attractive programs, and on the other hand you're aware that this isn't the type of television that you can't expect there. I think that if something needs to be changed, sure that you need to change the work of that sports television, I think that there should be people who are far more involved in the profession, far more professional than the existing set, and I don't think anyone needs to get their head off, it's simply a fact that if you want to do something quality, then you're going to hire people who are top masters. Can we talk about how that television is supposed to win? Well, after all this, I think everyone agrees that they can't, simply, unreal expectations. But it's good for us to perform this one-time thing, and it comes out to say, "but look at the loss is 38 million kuna," it's all true, but the fact is that we pile up losses wherever you want, and there's no one asking the question of responsibility. Here we had a case today, a colleague raised a question among other subsidizations of the railway work, so they're still being abolished there. So who asked a question of responsibility from those who could somehow pull it harder? No one, no one, no b. Has the loss in healthcare increased? It is. Is there any responsibility? Nothing to anyone. So, these 38 million, I agree that it's not small money and that, you should take care of every kuna and look for ways to sort it out in a better way. But unfortunately, a good part of today's debate didn't go even with correct intentions, let alone the good intentions. If there was too much of that, we got a party assignment and it's time to do it, let's defend what the government sent us like, here you go, buddy, so this isn't right, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77203	Please, no distractions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77204	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77205	We're moving on to replicas. First Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, you said now in your debate here that it was often mentioned today, that something was committed to the DORH and they were immediately guilty, that's not what anyone said. No, no, I didn't say that, I said there were obviously some kind of irregularities if it was sent there and I repeated several times that it would, that the competent institutions would determine whether or not it was. And all the time here, there's been an unargumented political debate. Well, in my debate, I cited a series of arguments and the fact that whoever wanted to listen could. So one of the arguments is also the subsequent decision-making that was made to cover the decision on the establishment of Croatian sports television, so no one said about the rebalancing of the budget for 2012 was made in May 2013. There are a lot of mayors and mayors here, I'm curious about when you're mayors or mayors, and who were you bringing your rebalancing? Are you now in the 5th month of 2014 perhaps to bring rebalancing for 2013? I don't think anyone will. Also, I agree with you, what you said was that the amounts for wages are 2.5 times higher than the issue, for example. For local sports programs, that's what I said in my debate. The losses, 40 million yes, the losses they're about to lose, who's going to resuscitate them later? So it will have to be resolved from non-intentional funds, as the Croatian Olympic Committee is committed to funding for sport development, and the Olympic Committee budget will not be sufficient to resolve losses in 2016. That means they're going to be rescinded from non-intentional means. And now that we're on the same board, there's been a lot of mention of the Sports Committee, otherwise I'm a member of that committee, and I wasn't sorry when the decision was made, because I was on my way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77207	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77208	Here, Vice President, one sentence. That decision was made without the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77209	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77210	But you all know it's not a common practice for committees to take their stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77211	Thank you. In reply to Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77212	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you guys started with DORH, so I'm gonna keep on doing it right now. I didn't say that you, that anyone said they were guilty, but it's an impression, okay, they're committed to the DORH and they're meant to be guilty, but it's not, it's not, and it's unnecessary to move, for what. Okay, if it's committed, leave it, it's dedicated, what are you talking about now? Now, it's dedicated, to whom it should be dedicated, and we'll see what's going to happen. But if something was so tangible and so problematic, believe me, there would be a reaction. Just don't forget that your minister very often jumps out with some statements where we're being honest with the creation of the fam they're all guilty and implies as soon as I've called someone that's guilty and he has to defend himself to prove he's innocent. And as for deficits 38, 40 million, you said 40, I did if I wasn't wrong in my hearing mention 38. Is anyone gonna answer? The projected deficit of 10 billion has risen to 17 billion. Health losses at an annual level of 3 billion. Well, look it's extremely incorrect in those ratios now someone Crucify and say okay at the same time, but this is the reality we live in, look at the countries in difficulty I don't know what. [[That's terrible.]] The fact is that you can't slap someone with 7 billion overruns, and on the other hand here people crucify for, I agree that 40 million kunas is a lot and that you need to find a way to maybe bring order there if there's a mess. But that's exactly how you call it, I don't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77213	A new replica, a respected Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77214	Oh, here's colleague Novak, I see you've been in the assembly since morning, and we've been listening to the same debate, but I don't think we've heard the same thing. Because I haven't heard that anyone named and last name has called someone, especially Mr. Matesha for this or for that. We are only talking about non-transparent spending on sports television and we are talking here today in this assembly about the Croatian Olympic Committee report and we are not talking about Minister Jovanovic's report and it is mentioned all the time. I think it would be far more appropriate to talk about this report, about these funds, about spending money, and whether these funds are addressed exactly where they need to be and to the extent that they need to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77215	The last replica of the respected Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, I think if you think there's no problem in sports, I think we're all kidding ourselves. All the affairs we're talking about today are not affairs or suspicions, we suspect this work, that work, the affairs that have been happening lately, we see our sports workers, the fights on the playgrounds, on the fields, the election assembly of the HNS, it was a disgrace to all of us who are involved in sports. Olympic, Croatian Olympic Committee is silent, he is not, he is nowhere, yet it is a roof organization. Unfortunately, it happens, I know from my county that clubs, seniors who already play once in three, four months some game. Two clubs go from one county to America, plays some tournaments, pays the Croatian Olympic Committee. And we have kids, we have these young people who need them. Nothing, we'll be easy for them. I mean, that's what we don't do transparently and what doesn't happen to improve sports, but we go ahead of the election to give some money to someone so that a certain number of people can be re-elected and that's how we buy and thus ensure that we continue to participate in the Olympic Committee. Not only that, but also in other sports organizations. And the laws that we have, which we predict the law and the way we work, that neither the Olympic Committee supports it nor is deafened. I think these are the items we expect to be like a roof sports organisation that has to work more on the ground and more involved in team work and younger categories and categories of competition. Unfortunately, for us individuals have produced excellent results, But they created with their work really individual, families invested a lot. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77217	Replication response, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77218	Thank you very much. I don't know if you've heard it, but you haven't heard what I said about the problems, and I've listed some problems. And I absolutely didn't say there's no problem, but since you reminded me of those problems further, then I'll remind you that the time minister said he was going to dry out the swamp and that he was going to solve those problems. It was still if I wasn't wrong before the coalition government came to Kukurik coalition, formed a government. If I remember correctly, it was still in that period. If he wasn't, mostly in that part he said he'd solve those problems. However, I believe that everyone in Croatia would like that to happen, if the problems were solved. But we don't see any movement here. And now if any of us point to that, well-meaning but okay. It's okay, you're trying, but you're trying too hard, you're trying too hard. There's obviously a problem. What you said you were going to solve isn't solved yet. Then you can't say we're wrong now. We're well-intentioned. Normally, yes, and that's where we suggested, and here's what I referred from the pay phone down to the words of criticism in that part and here in the audience. So, I don't know. But well, you probably didn't want to hear what didn't suit you, so it's normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77219	The Independent Representatives' Club was registered by colleagues Grubisic and Cain, but there are none, so the club is losing the right to discuss this topic. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mario Habek first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77220	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I would at first maybe here's my debate just answered my colleague from the Labourist, but he's going out, so maybe I'll get over it later. Although this is about the 2012 report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, it is about sports activities that are athletes in life if we can say it in some way already forgotten it is good to use this report to comment on and in some ways ask ourselves what is the role of the Croatian Olympic Committee and whether this role is being played in society and realized. As defined in the report itself, the aim of the Croatian Olympic Committee is to present the entire Croatian sport before the International Olympic Committee and other international sports organisations and associations, to coordinate, to encourage and worry about the activities of sports alliances, to care for the development and promotion of sports at the state level, with the promotion of the organisation and coordination of sports at the level of the county. The objectives of the Croatian Olympic Committee are not clearly visible from this report. If we start with the promotion of Croatian sport, the biggest part of the promotion as well as the biggest investments were reserved for sports television, which we talked about today and we also said, Col. Djujic noted that ratings are very low. 0.4% if I'm not mistaken, and the biggest success in this report is the transfer of individual sports from the London Olympics. Nowhere is it specified in any way that the Croatian Olympic Committee intends to increase the ratings of sports television in order to make loans and investments in sports television, which we also talked very much about today, of course, pay off. It is then said that one of the main objectives of the Croatian Olympic Committee is to encourage the local level of sport. However, the same report does not show shifts in the promotion of sports at local and county level. No instruments are indicated to achieve the objectives. On the contrary, there is only a lack of investment in local and rural levels. The report mentions co-operation with other national Olympic committees, more specifically with, an agreement was signed with the Youth Olympic Committee, and the signing of the Cooperation Agreement with the Indonesian Olympic Committee is also in preparation. Now, apart from listing the agreements mentioned, the details of the agreement are unknown and it is not clear what is in them. Are there any obligations of the Croatian Olympic Committee towards them. Here I consider, of course, whether there are any monetary obligations and possibly programming by the Croatian Olympic Committee. Then the sponsors are listed, there are 21. However, it also does not stand anywhere which are sponsors and which part participates in the financing of the Croatian Olympic Committee. In the financial part of the report, it is evident that the lack of income of seven, eight million kunas has been subdued through an excess of previous years. You can also withdraw the question of sports television by not knowing which times as a correction of the Croatian Olympic Committee. If this sports television continues to accumulate losses that are already close to 40 million kuna today, and we see that the projection is such that in a few years we can grow over 100 million kunas. How this will affect the general revenues and expenditures of the Croatian Olympic Committee which lends this Sports Television. The full financial part of the report also shows what, of course, is the most important lack of investment in young people. It is evident that the planned amounts are much higher than those carried out. Furthermore, development research projects are neither implemented nor proposed and no specific plans for the future are presented. Also, there is a lack of ratio of investment in young people and how much expenditure in these categories is lower compared to the expenditures relating to employees' salaries. It is evident from the same that large amounts went to non-sports aspects of work, which I primarily mean employees' salaries, rent space. The rent of space is tripled, no explanation of why. So, as I've already said, I'm going to repeat my investment in young people is below schedule. There is no explanation why this is done except of course the reason is the lack of finance which again raises some other issues, and these are issues of pay, accreditation etc. Also, we have witnessed from day to day complaints from representatives, sports clubs, contestants who here we heard today in several discussions of their travels, preparation, accommodation and all that goes along with pay from their own pocket while on the other hand here is the money that Mateša explained that he has obligations to Sports TV and when money is paid Sports TV. There are also certain obligations to young people and to other sports alliances, so that money may also be payable to these other contents. It turns out that basically money, given that television is sports television in a blockade and that there is money for creditors, and for young people and athletes there is no money. I would also like to say here a few sentences between the relationship of the HoO to the Ministry of Sports. I was already talking about high pay costs. It is also obvious that there are individuals on the Olympic Committee who, apart from large financial incomes, possess a large dose of inappropriate behaviour. I am primarily referring to our secretary-in-chief of the Olympic Committee, who is with us today, who is here for a long series of months if it is publicised in the media of color, what is his salary, what are his receipts and, of course, all those privileges that the secretary-in-chief uses, of course, at the expense of taxpayers. So far, no report has shown how many of its receipts and receipts are, of course, of the other employees in the PDO. I think it's a minimum of decency and responsibility that the secretary general should know about. He should also know that he represents all sports alliances, and not only himself, and it is not weird, given how much information we receive from the media and how many leading people from sports clubs and sports alliances show up to us that it is no wonder that more and more national alliances don't agree with his work, and his communication as well as he learns from communication with those people with other alliances almost doesn't exist. Here, these are just some references to the work of the HoO, and such procedures and behavior are disrupted by the relationship between the HoO and the Ministry of Sports and the HoO with the other national alliances. This conclusion, of course, is accompanied by the ministry's negative opinion on this report. The Ministry's negative opinion on the 2012 Olympic Committee Plan and, of course, negatively finds sports inspections. From all of this we can see how in fact the CHO does not perform one of the main functions of its existence, which is the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. The overall impression of the report is quite superficial and unspeakable. And finally, I just want to conclude that I believe that the Olympic Committee, with these moves, has not worked for sport, athletes and coaches as the backbones of the development of a healthy society but rather in the interest of the organisation itself, which is not the fundamental goal of establishing the Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77221	Mario Habeku is replicating Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with most of your debate, and I support it, but what I want to mention here is one part that you forgot, I mentioned it in my morning presentation on behalf of the club. Since here in today’s debate, some arguments are also a little suppressed and moved on the side, which is the Sports Academy. And in this opinion of the Government, here's what I quoted Mr. Mateshi as saying, it was found that the diplomas of the Sports Academy were issued in an illegal manner. Now the same thing is going on here, it's a big problem, and there's a question of what's going on with all those diplomats that have been so illegally issued. What stage are they in today and what is happening to them? I believe that my colleagues from the Olympic Committee will answer me once more by the end of the debate. And there have been a lot of speeches today in many discussions on the results in 2012 which are large and deserve congratulations, but my opinion is that the sports results in 2012 did not mirror the work of the Olympic Committee in 2012 but in previous years, and the results from 2012 will be visible only in some years. So here's my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77223	The replica matches Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77224	Well, dear fellow Djujic, here we are today witnessing that on this other side all day debates are coming in the direction that absolutely no illegal activities have been found, that the inspection has found absolutely no illegal shop. But here's what you said. There are a number of suspicions, and I believe that the institutions to whom it was passed if it was passed, and I believe that they're going to check all these allegations that are being talked about today, and that in the end we're going to find out whether there were illegal shops, whether diplomas were being bought, and whether money was being spent in a transparent way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77225	The president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Zlatko Mateša, has now announced again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77226	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I want to believe and please don't get me wrong. I want to believe you read the 2012 report. I want to believe that it is because it says that in that year, the Croatian Olympic Development Programmes Committee had 460 and some young athletes and athletes and 79 coaches, a good part of whom is working with younger age categories. Dear Representative, none of these features have been won by someone who is not in any of the development programs of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Therefore, the tendency not to work with young people cannot be more wrong than it is. Another thing, as regards the decisions of the Croatian Olympic Committee and its competent authorities. The Croatian Olympic Committee is an association, conducting its business under the Law on Non-profit Organisations. Dear fellow MP, it can bring about budget rebalances until it adopts the final budget for next year. We're not an agency, we're not a state body, we can do it. Next, no decision has been made illegally, nor has anyone ever written it. The sports inspection in the area of its work ordered us to comply with 8 regulations, we aligned them, we didn't bring them in, there's one in the process of harmonisation. There was no talking at all about any special financial business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77227	The replica Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77228	I'm just gonna ask a question about this rebalance. Comrade Mattesh, you said you could do it, so you probably can, but is that normal? Well, I don't think it's normal for six months after the current year to bring rebalancing for the past year. I've never seen it anywhere before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77229	We're moving on with the individual. A little peace, please. We're continuing our individual presentations. Here you go, Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The funding of sports is of great national importance because it conditiones the quality, massality, attractiveness and diversity of the programme, the availability of sports infrastructure, the education of professional staff and, of course, affects the results of athletes as the best Croatian ambassador, which, of course, confirms in many competitions from the Olympic Games to other world and European championships. Croatian Olympic has an income of 130 million kuna, and according to this report, most of which is revenue from the State budget of 114 million kuna, which is actually most of the games of chance. And it only accounts for 0.14% of the state budget. I'd say it's too small. But it's not all the money that sport actually spends today. A large part is detached from local self-government units. That's another cca 1.2 billion kuna. Of that, 4% of the county, 20% of the city of Zagreb, 61% of the cities, only 9% of the municipalities. There are clear other incomes made by Clubs from membership fees, donations and other sources and happiness that is so, that there are many other sources for Croatian sport because most of the money goes past the Croatian Olympic Committee, that most of the money of the age of small athletes, those who love sports, those who love healthy sports associations and the environment and when I say so little of the healthy unfortunately in our society has. The task of the Croatian Olympic Committee is to take care of sports in general, about all sports at all levels but my opinion is the highest in the top Olympics and is that so? Are the real Olympics who are involved in politics on the Croatian Olympic Committee? I want to think that's the way it is. However, one series from the Croatian Olympic Committee, from the Croatian Olympic Committee's assembly when on our celebrated table tennis player, Mr. Primorac raised a heik from Mr. Vrdoljak, which was said to be a sport, in which Mr. Vrdoljak of our tennis player was belittled, insulted for everything he had achieved in sports and we know in fact who Primorac is and at how many Olympic games he performed at other sports events. And now we can say that each of us has a minute, perhaps a bad moment or an effect, but what I was worried about was that there was no one in the assembly of the Croatian Olympic Committee to protect this Zoran Primorac except for the Olympics, the athletes who defended him and refused to participate in the Farsi and left the Croatian Olympic Committee's assembly. None of the other members of the congregation stepped in to protect Zoran Primorac. This is what worries me, and we ask whether the Croatian Olympic Committee is then protecting the Olympics and athletes. When we tell the Croatian Olympic Committee, I will repeat what I said in the replica that the minister of sports said money for athletes has and will be there, but there are no leaders and secretaries. By the way, let me say again, here's counterpart Habek said about the high salary Mr. Chop has on the Croatian Olympic Committee, so let's see if this salary is really higher than the prime pay or lower? Here's what I'm interested in. And now in a conversation with athletes, but to the Olympics, I gave myself a hard time and I talked to them and I asked them what they really resented the Croatian Olympic Committee, they said three main things. First of all, we're talking today that in Croatia we have 11, 12 thousand coaches, I don't really know, I may have made a mistake in numbers, but about 39% of them don't have sports equipment, adequate sports equipment, which requires an academy that cares about it. She's not even comfortable with sports, let alone sportsmen, and she's doing things wrong, that's the story of athletes, not my story. Next thing you know, it's a public procurement. In the Croatian Olympic Committee, and confirmed the revision, that I am a public procurement, it is done in a non-transparent way without sufficient public competitions. And the third thing they said was about sports television, I wouldn't want any more about sports television, we talked too much, we all said we wanted that sports TV. I'd be very happy to have that sports television with my chair and watch it for hours, I'm afraid I don't have anything. And now I'm going to do something else about sports. The co-ordination of Croatian fans raised the voice, the voice against crime in Croatian sports, against the evil that rules in Croatian football. For the first time, some cheerleading groups joined forces against the state of sports and football. When I talk about it, I'm not talking about the national team because she, unfortunately, is half-earthly, and then we have more of those who came from the outside and learned how to do it in football, but those here in Croatia who made this Croatian football circus, I'm talking about the League competition. Today fans are not just disgruntled teenagers, hooligans who drive and break everything they come to and reach even though there are those who, unfortunately, are in the lead, are smart and educated people, it is a new generation of fans who love sport, give everything in a cheery sense, without anything in return, together they have gone into action for love of sport, for football and against the USKOK arresters Širco, Dedovic, against guys like Mamic and similar, against the interests of individuals and narrow clans who are only in the private interest of sport and are gathered around Dinam and the Croatian Football Federation. In order not to turn out to be some extreme fans against this group, there are also some responsible Dinamians who have made envious careers abroad and we all know who we're talking about, and today they can't unfortunately be members of that club where they played and heard of all over Europe. When they call for changes in the club, in a legitimate way one man is one vote, which is clear to me and the basis of democracy, then they are people who are against, who promote some kind of street riot, pressure the state bodies, doing the trick to the so-called. The benefactors of the club. Although sports in Croatia today would look through the club's football championship, then we could certainly say that it is completely unacceptable for athletes, but also for viewers, we have fewer and fewer viewers in sports, especially in the football that I've been talking about. And therefore, respected representatives, colleagues, and you on the left and on the right, in the name of sports and athletes, we raise our voice against crime, private interests, clan management to save Croatian sport and show the right way to sports for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77231	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77232	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Prelec, since I wanted to mention what happened in my debate, this unfavorable event at the last session of the Croatian Olympic Committee Assembly, this unfavorable event that made all sports fans angry, all the public sports and all the athletes, which is precisely what the Croatian Olympic Club has responded and asked the Ethics Commission to reprimand the Honorary President, Mr Vrdoljak. And unfortunately, the Croatian Olympic Committee did not vote that. So now I'm asking a question here to all of us what kind of message do we give to our youth, our athletes? Exactly the sports associations that should really be playing fair play, this isn't where it's done. Therefore, it is doubtful that we are telling our young ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77233	The replica matches Allen Prevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77234	Well, here's my colleague, thank you. Clearly I said in all of this, a sports official might even raise his word to an athlete, an Olympic in effect. But what I was worried about, that no one stood exactly out of these congregations in his protection, that's what worries me. It was also asked to increase its tenacity against him, did that happen? No, as far as I know, even more has been taken up in the defense of Mr. Vrdoljaka whom we can appreciate here as a sports worker who's done a lot for sport or little, my God, we can all watch it from one side to the other. But what he did according to one Olympic who performed at seven Olympic championships, and my God, that's simply unacceptable, but it's unacceptable of you who didn't protect Zoran Primorac in that assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77235	The new replica Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77236	Comrade Prelec, here's a lot of young people are being dragged into these discussions today. You mentioned as much as I did in my debate about insufficient investment in young people. In fact, he's been trying to tell us all along who we're talking about not investing in young people enough not to say he's not investing in young people. That's not what anyone here said, but we were saying that it's not enough to invest in young people, that it could invest more in young athletes, not not invest in young people. We know he's investing, but we think he's not investing enough. And when you mentioned again the salary I touched in my debate, here I don't know exactly what the pay of fellow Copa is. Mr. Chop's here today, so maybe the public's here for the first time, it's a real opportunity to say his salary. I've heard his salary is 24700 net without these various accessories. But here he may be worthy of us, but it's no offense. I don't think Mr. Chop is mad at me, no offense. It's just one question of decency to find out what that pay is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77237	A new replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77238	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Croatian Olympic Committee, indeed, could possibly have been better expressions and words in the famous Assembly of the Croatian Olympic Committee and could have been in effect on both sides they could have chosen words and certainly be different impressions. But apparently in some kind of relationship, everyone's been looking for maybe the best thing to say. And I believe Mr. Vrdoljak was also challenged when he might have said so. But we are testifying here, and I hope you will protect us just as you ask. I don't know if you're going to give him reproof, will you turn it off or whether it's Secretary Jovanovic's red card already. When he talks next to him, Mr. Mamic looks like a gentleman when he talks to his vocabulary. Because what to say to his words. Here's what he said to Mr. Matesha and Wrodoljak. "We are on the right track to once and for all free sports and athletes from parasites feeding off their successes." Is that normal? Is that a normal saying? He's got parasites all over him. What did he tell us? I'd better not talk. What Prime Minister Milanovic tells us. Well, it can't be heard, that we're half-world, that we're in dark cassavas, that we're cabadahs. Will you protect us with some kind of reproof, red card from those people who have the right to teach everyone a lesson, and when someone tells them something, then we're offended. You can't do that! If you know how to make a bad remark or a bad expression, I think you can take it in some way. Then why the reproof? I think you should protect us from such a minister, because he demeans us all here with his own actions, but especially with a dictionary. And don't tell me that his dictionary, so let me remind you what he said, grab your hand, look in the mirror and then what? Well, that's terrible! [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] That a minister of science and education speaks with such a vocabulary. You need to work on that a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77239	I'm sure we won't give the Minister reproof...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77240	Wait a minute, wait a minute, I have to give you my word. Replication response, Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We certainly won't give the minister reproof because he cares about Croatian sports. Is that supposed to be those words? I might not have performed those words, and most of us wouldn't have done those words, but this is how you said he lived as a parasite. That's probably something else to say. Lives like that on their torture, sports torture. We well know who Mr. Mamić is and what he did to Croatian football and Dinam and Croatian Football Federation. Why does it happen to us that no one else comes to our sports fields? The viewers first of all, why football should be played. It's because of guys like that. We're talking all the time about some unpleasant events. Here's my paper clips. So there are no daily newspapers that don't write about affairs, not sports, football affairs, on the Croatian Olympic Committee, in handball, everyone else. That's what I'm talking about. And on inappropriate words, I agree, you should be careful what you say, but it is the intention that matters. Good intentions, good intentions, drying up the swamp. Maybe it's a different name. Maybe there's a line to the sport. Here's what I might have called it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77242	The new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77243	Comrade Prelec, speaking of hard words, they didn't come very well anywhere. But I hope that one brilliant athlete, a member of the Olympic Committee, will eventually show him the SMS sent by Minister Jovanovic after this famous session, so you will see that the words of Tonya Vrdoljak are as they said in a camel effect compared to what the minister sent to the athlete. Camomile, so much for it. Comrade Prelec, who is a football player from the first team of the football team did not cancel in Croatia? Only Ivan Rakitiæ. Pleikosa? A deer? Is it a laundromat? A dead end? Lovren? You want Joe Simunic? Joe Simunic came from Australia? Will you... Only Ivan Rakitiæ, who decided to play for Croatia when he was 18, not Switzerland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you say your players didn't cancel out. So these players cancel out on a sports program that takes place in Croatia, through these small sports clubs someone funded those clubs. But in a keen desire to prove something that is unproven, and not to accept the Croatian Olympic Committee report, then it is really going to the extreme. However, you were unable to resolve today in this debate two things. Just whisper to your colleague Hajdukovic, you will have a chance to say later, which is to distinguish the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee from Sports Television. Then that would be far better and far nicer. And you, as head of a local self-government unit, well know how much you care for athletes in your community, well you know how much you care for them. And from those players, maybe tomorrow he'll be some kind of representative. So if we're proud of their results, then let's give them credit to those who fight for that sports system working. Well, we don't have to do that if we're going to replace someone, rock everything that's alive in Croatia just to replace someone. If there's anything wrong with sports, let those who do bad work be punished. Should the entire Croatian sport be thrown in the mud? You don't have to. No one has the right to do that. I repeat, the strongest weapon in the fight against addiction and everything bad that preys on young people is education and sport and there is no stronger tool than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77244	The replica matches Allen Prevec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77245	Who was talking about throwing sports in the mud? No one. We're talking about sports as one of the purest parts of our society. When I was talking about our team members who worked, came from abroad, so it's still all them Croats, playing for the Croatian team and fighting and we like to watch them. We're talking about some of the habits they've acquired outside, not here at our place, but outside. Another way of thinking, another way of training. The coach who grew up out there today. That's what I'm talking about. And the difference between home sports and a club competition where I would say crime doesn't know where it isn't. We're talking about, uh, courts that judge, our judges, sports employees who only work in personal interest. I mentioned this gentleman, I won't even mention him anymore, he doesn't need to be mentioned in context. Which makes some kind of press there and justifies why he's doing something in football or I don't know who spits on those four football players who just want to do well, change in Dinam. As may come tomorrow's change in the Croatian state, it might, and I don't think it will. Well, the normal thing, legitimately, is one vote and a legitimate president is elected. That's what we're talking about. And I wasn't talking about representatives as bad, that they came here without being supposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77246	It will replicate the respected Ana Komaraic-Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague who actually encouraged me to rephrase it for you? You said sports courts don't come to the audience anymore. I simply disagree with you, I come from Rijeka where we have shown here in the last two years the Rijeka Football Club with its positive attitude and with the way it works with fans and, of course, with the new administration has shown that it can. It can be an extremely positive thing, it can motivate absolutely all football fans and we've just shown it through these two years. I wish we didn't watch football through Dinamo and through Mamić because what Dinamo and Mamić are simply for us in Croatia, in my opinion, we don't need it. So we should watch sports on the positive side. And as for the insult and disdain that you were talking about, the relationship between the HoO, or the Assembly and the Olympic Club, is not good. Something happened, what happened I don't know, but it wasn't just an Olympic attack, it was there for other Olympics, unfortunately, to the extent that they didn't know in the assembly itself, some members of the assembly don't know who Samir Barac is. So it is very questionable who is sitting where we are and who decides about our Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77248	Replica, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the second part of your debate, you spoke about Croatian football, and I will also touch it a little while now, although it is not a topic today, but we are unfortunately discussing Croatian sport in this House very rarely. Maybe we should do more, it shows today's debate, more and more often talk. Yes, you've detected well. In Croatian football, something rots when we talk about the league competition. My colleague Comparić showed a positive example from Rijeka, unfortunately such an image is not in the rest of Croatia. The low attendance of matches, fans are unhappy with the situation in Croatian football, send constant messages of dissatisfaction both towards the HNS and other leaders and the hard words you mentioned not only at the HOO Assembly, but the heavy words that rain from the Croatian football leaders send a bad picture to the citizens, and especially to the young people we talk about here today. Because what a message it is when one of the top Croatian football players fights with old people in the football clubs' stands, when he insults everyone living around him and they run Croatian sports. These are bad pictures, and we need to talk about it all the time. And these are the positions in which politics should be very involved in the work of sports. And when we start to warn about some irregularities, then we often get told exactly what they said this morning and some colleagues say as an independent sport, sport should be independent. The other day we had a debate about justice. So when it comes to some irregularities in the Croatian judiciary, then everyone says the judiciary is independent, the judiciary of the sea, it must not resist them with its finger and when they do not work well. And so in sports, I think we should talk as much about these irregularities as possible. It's clear to me that colleagues defend the gentleman who whispers in football courts because he is often the guest of their gatherings and often be there and the star of the star, but they threw their paws at Dinamo in the '90s when they wouldn't let it be called what was his name. It cost them 2000, and let them continue to deal with Dinam, so it'll cost them in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77250	Last replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You see, dear colleagues, I hope someone's listening and watching today, we've been talking about this morning? The 2012 report. The task of SDP and Vice President Stazic is to ensure that within your club you replicate to your will, without even warning you. Bravo, bravo! This is the most important topic in Croatia to be discussed all day. It is not an important topic, which your same Minister Jovanovic demeans both professors and students and young people, which your Government demeans both doctors and workers 390 thousand, bravo! That could be a third of a day's debate. But look now, and then you dare that way I don't know any coaches, I don't know who we're getting with. No matter what you do not advocate and ask for a full-day debate on the situation in Croatia? It's a shame! From 9:30 in the morning to 16:45 in here, what stretches? Mr. Vice President is laughing. Rightly so. What are you doing? Of course you're laughing, Mr. Vice President. The situation is absolutely not funny but it's embarrassing, but it's embarrassing, but you're stalling and demeaning these people who might be watching on TV, who might read something you're turning your GDP on, we're in the trash, not in the trash, in Jovanovic's swamp, so you won't make it, so there's shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77252	Comrade twilight, should distinguish the replica within the club and replica of the club. I warn when someone's replicating their own club and when they're replicating a representative inside their own club, that's not so weird anymore. I laugh every time I hear something funny and fun because I can't take it. And now your line will be answered by the esteemed Allen Prelec, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77253	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Sumrak says that people who watch TV are talking about problems, what people have chosen us for. I think there's a problem in sports today. This isn't any ominous story or argument. We think that simply the Croatian Olympic Committee does not work well that it should work better. We think there's everything in sports and everything that needs to be cleared up, and my God, that's why we're here to talk about it. And let people watch. And the replicas you're talking about, so I think you should at least talk about it, the replicas. So here's the vice president to check how many times the HDZ's replicated the HDZ and how many SDPs to the SDP. So we're constantly listening to your replicas on your exposure. Well, we can check it out and see who's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77254	We're continuing the individual debate now. It's your turn, dear Domagoj Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Mateo and his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is what is said today about the importance of sport, if we are talking about the Croatian Olympic Committee, so we are talking about the importance of sports as a promoter of Croatia abroad, but also sport in general as a contribution to, or an important element for the preservation of health, prevention of various malignancies and extension of lifespan. So I wouldn't hold on to it, but I would go to the core of the debate, which is the Croatian Olympic Committee, but before I go over just a few observations that I think are important for today's debate. So several times already said in the debate, the Croatian Olympic Committee is a crown NGO, a sports association that gathers national sports alliances and aims to promote and develop sports. We will surely agree on both sides of the assembly when I say that there are many problems in Croatian sport, many problems that cannot be solved only by the Croatian Olympic Committee or by the Croatian Olympic Committee is the generator of all problems, but of course it can affect some problems. First of all, I believe that the legal framework which is currently in force in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by sports, sports relations, sports clubs and so on is not satisfactory. We have already changed it once in this term, complemented it, but its lack is so much that I believe that we will soon have to pass a new Sport Act, or that would be advisable. Sports is apart from what we said here noble activity is and lucrative activity. Of course not all sports, something has been said about it here and, of course, that any activity that can generate profit and that significant profit then attracts and different and I would dare say cloudy elements in it and simply our legal framework did not foresee preventing such things. We talked a lot about big and small sports, big sports that are lucrative, which can generate or only be funding, generate even income and small sports, so conditionally speaking to sports that are not so attractive and which should be encouraged. Following all this, I think we need it and that it may be as one of the conclusions of this debate that certainly as a contribution that no one has mentioned so far that we also need a strategy for the development of sport. When we have a strategy then we will know more clearly where the funds need to be directed, which sports can develop themselves, which are therefore, which are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia etc. However, although this government is committed to adopting strategies, we have brought in a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship that has first been adopted since the existence of the Republic of Croatia, a modern Republic of Croatia. Soon I hope we will have a strategy of development, education, science and higher education, which, again, I find extremely important for this area, above all sports. Because as previously said, sport should be included in all pores of education in educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so young people should be raised from the very beginning of their development for sport through sport and sport. Why can we discuss this even though I believe that we have the same consensus and that the benefits of sports are to those who are engaged in sports in their formative years and more than white. But we return to the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is the report ahead of us. So, there has been a lot of mention today of the autonomy of the Olympic Sports System and it is something not... so first of all autonomy should exist as there is in higher education or universities also have financial autonomy when they distribute money within themselves, which is of course public. But as I mentioned in the replicas, it's what bothers me. So, when we talk about public money, we must also have the transparency of his that or the transparency of spending that money. First of all, because about 85% of the revenue from the Croatian Olympic Committee was just public money was that of Croatia's lottery, whether it was revenues directly from the state budget. So we don't have the data according to which the criteria are allocated. Let's say we have this numbered analytically listed each category of what it refers to, which, etc. but I would like to know why the Croatian Football Federation would get so much money, millions and 700 thousand kunas if I'm not mistaken, Croatian basketball 5 million, Croatian mountaineering I don't know the amount of money. So, we're not presented here, at least to me as a representative, a clear criterion based on which this money is distributed. So, money is distributed to sports alliances, associations and other programs then there are some more, at least to me some ambiguities. In fact, what happens in the event of a number of national sports alliances, I think that such a thing exists in the event of volleyball. So we have the Croatian volleyball association and the Croatian volleyball alliance if I am not mistaken, why is one, one member of the Olympic Committee, and the other does not mean again the criteria by which it is determined. As far as I'm concerned, let's say, what I've got going on in my eye is the realization of the sports local level programme, so we can see that the entire Croatian Olympic Committee has funded these programmes with an amount of 4 600,000 kuna, but what I find interesting are some disproportionate funding, and I'll explain what. For example, Osijek-Baranja County, which is one of the largest in the Republic of Croatia, received 107,000 kuna, Požeško-Slavonska 109, Virovitica-Podravska 189, Vukovar-Srijemska 193 and Brodo-Posaviska 145. So it's 5 Slavon County, you'll notice that the biggest one got at least, and all together they didn't get almost as well as some counties individually which are much more developed economically first of all, which have bigger incomes and which can therefore invest more in sport. And I'll say, I'll give you another illustration of what I'm talking about. So the Istrian County received 316 thousand kunas, so threefold more than Osijek-Baranja, Koprivničko-križevacka 271 thousand, Međimurska 243 thousands, Varazdinska 229 thousand, Zagrebačka 204, Zagreb City 231 etc. etc. So, I don't want to hit or single anyone, but what is the goal of the Croatian Olympic Committee is at least for me, and that's the development of sport and hopefully the uniform development of sport, so it should just be to help environments that don't have enough money to support sport activities themselves, or local sports alliances. And that's where we get the local self-government units to worry about sports. What's the big one? So that's already been said here several times. However, what is problematic is that certain units of local self-government or lack sufficient sensitivity to allocate large funds for sport or simply do not have funds, i.e. do not have income and do not have money to target sport. And that brings us back to this, meaning from my argument before which I said that the unequal development of sport. In case there are strategies, in case the financing of sports via the Olympic Committee, or the National Alliance, is more transparent then we could, therefore, put myself in the position of the units of local self-government, the money is directed where it is not directed but either by the Olympic Committee, or by the National Sports Federation. So, further than you'd like to see that report at least for the next year when we're talking, and these are the criteria for the evaluation of athletes who aren't part of the report, it would be interesting to see that too. The equalisation of employees' salaries here has already been mentioned before, I think on average one third of the total funding of each individual national sports alliance, and somewhere more is only going to pay, that is, it would be said to maintain a cold drive, so the question is how much money is actually left available for development projects themselves, for training athletes etc. There has been a lot of talk about the Croatian Olympic Academy and there can be some respect for the arguments that the Croatian Olympic Academy conducts education and for some sports for which it is impossible to educate in the Republic of Croatia, but at least in my opinion there are irregularities that there are no records of programmes, students, workers if there are, these data have not been provided to the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, there have been no checks on knowledge or data, nor has the teaching been organised. So, if you can't even teach some sports discipline then I believe at least or would like to believe that people are being sent abroad to education or that lecturers who can do it are being brought in and we simply don't have data on it. So to conclude what I object to the report is the intransparency of the flow of public money, public money must be spent transparently, and we as a legislator as elected must know what the money we have voted on in the budget itself is, that is, how that money is allocated, autonomy is no excuse for transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77256	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77257	So that's the conclusion actually of my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77258	Thank you. We'll stop working now. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30. We have nine other colleagues and colleagues reported for this debate. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 16.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77259	My colleagues and colleagues wish you a good day and we will continue to discuss the Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77260	I'm not asking for a break, so we understand each other, but I'm only asking when one answer will come to my question. It's been almost three months and I'm asking you, Madam Vice President, I don't know who, to use your authority and to contact the City of Pula to finally provide me with information on how much money they spend on the media, on the PR, on how much money they spend on television and what, in general, how much they spend on promotion. Representatives Bolunčić and I do not know who asked these questions from the City of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, the answer was spotless, but the most transparent city in Istria couldn't get an answer. What I know is they spend more than 3 million kunas with utility companies but I don't know who the money goes to, and I think both the Istrian and Croatian public should finally find out. I ask you, Madam Vice President, ask the President of the Parliament to comply with our Rules of Procedure, to use the authority passed by this House and ask for an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77261	Thank you, we understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77262	It's been three months, the answer's not coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77263	Thanks, buddy. Have a seat. My colleague Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77264	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee, respected colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will focus on the financial part of the report, with one single intention, so as to remove observed irregularities, detected errors and make the next report of the Croatian Olympic Committee more quality. First of all, I would like to say that there are many examples of inaccuracies, inaccuracies, unusual practices and misusing professional terminology. So they're mostly inaccurate indices, for example in the Olympic solidarity that's Roman III in Table 12 on page 29 of the report is the index 100, and it should be 170.3. The wrong index is also recorded at total sources of funds, recorded 100, should be 98.9. In Table 14, which determines the financial result, the amount is incorrectly shown on regular number 9, so instead of the amount of a million 343 thousand 726 must be the sum of a million 363 thousand 726. The example of inaccuracy is the finding of a commercial audit presented on page 28 of the report under point III, which yesterday was called upon by the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee in order to argue that no irregularities were identified in the business of the Croatian Olympic Committee, no illegality. So mentioning the results of the commercial audit, I have to say, it doesn't prove anything because it refers to 2011, check it out, and we're talking about the 2012 report. In addition, I find it much more important to find the State Audit because it is incomparably more objective. In fact, commercial audits generally give positive opinions because it is a mutual interest to say so with the client, so if the commercial audit does not give a positive opinion, or that negatively in this case the audited client will not renew the transaction contract with the commercial audit, so he will engage another audit. What also bothers me, i.e. a deviation from the usual practice of financial reporting, is that the report does not show data for the previous year. So there is no data at all for the previous year, in a specific case for 2011, so this should be a practice in order to see the trend in income and expenditure trends. So the practice is that the data for the current year are expressed in relation to the planned sizes which here in this report is the case, but also in relation to the achievement of the previous year. For example, the use of wrong termology is in Table 12 on page 29, so the term total sources of funds were wrongly used because of course this is not about total resources, but about total revenues, which are two completely different categories. So the total income is the financial result category, and the funds and resources are the balance sheet categories. Furthermore, the Croatian Olympic Committee proved to be quite forgetful, yesterday we heard a lot about it, so he later carried out a series of obligations, only after he was reminded of these obligations by the inspection, whether the Ministry of Finance, was the Educational Inspectorate. Thus, he did not deliver a statement of fiscal responsibility, or as I later said during the implementation of budgetary supervision by the Ministry of Finance. Also, I find this almost incredible, the rebalancing of the 2012 income and expenditure plan not adopted during 2012 but five months after the end of the calendar year, i.e. in May 2013. Although yesterday the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee tried to convince us that it was possible and allowed, I know it is not. Rebalans work exclusively within the financial year, finally deadline for the submission of a financial report for non-profit organisations which the Croatian Olympic Committee is, is 28 February of the current year for the past year, and of course there is no way that after the submission of the financial report there is a rebalancing option. But it's not a problem just the time of rebalancing, I think it's even more problematic the way the rebalancing is done, and it's done by waiting for the execution and recording of all expenditures for the current year, and then the revenues are planned at the height needed to cover these expenditures. Therefore, in other words, there are so many incomes needed to level with the expenditures achieved, and there is in fact no deviation between the execution and the plan. So, I have to admit, I haven't met with this practice, even though it's freely through my hands, I'm going to say there have been thousands of financial reports. Finally, the Croatian Olympic Committee forgot that for loans approved by sports television it must have the appropriate decisions of the competent authorities. Yesterday, the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee justified such behaviour by giving loans from his own resources and that no decisions by the competent authorities were necessary in that case. If decisions are not necessary, why were they later made when the inspection requested them? In addition, I don't think it's a correct approach to be able to dispose of its own resources autonomously, while at the same time the taxpayers' funds create losses. In fact, the loss of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012 amounts to more than 7 million kuna with the fact that it is fortunately covered by excess income transferred from previous years. The final own funds of the Croatian Olympic Committee in 2012 amounted to only 11 million kunas, much less than the loss of sports television, which amounted to 23 million kuna. Not to mention the long-term and short-term obligations of sports television of 45 million kuna, of which 27 million relate to debts towards banks. So why did I give this comparison? I want to show that my own funds are neither hypothetically enough to cover the loss of sports television. Therefore, both present and future and will eventually have to be covered by Croatian taxpayers. It is obvious, therefore, and I would like to stress it again, although it was really repeatedly said yesterday that the model of financing sports television via business banks proved extremely bad because it generates huge interest costs and because it generates huge losses. Sports television is just gonna say it like that designed for a better time. He represents I would say a kind of super standard for which Croatia does not have financial opportunities at the moment. And when we talk about it in such a way, it is not a political haranga of Croatian sport, as the opposition said yesterday, but an attempt to regain responsibility, that we have a problem, so we have a big problem and that we need to approach this problem seriously. And let me get this straight. The Croatian Olympic Committee is definitely responsible for the development and achievement of Croatian sports and athletes. However, when we evaluate his business, then we must be critical because the Croatian Olympic Committee is not a village association of cheerleaders with the fact that I do not want to say anything bad about cheerleaders. The Croatian Olympic Committee is the highest national non-governmental sports association whose annual budget is 140 million kuna, with almost 90% of that budget coming from the state register, therefore from taxpayers' funds. And if that is not why we have the right to seek the greatest possible responsibility of the Croatian Olympic Committee for the legal and responsible spending of these funds, then I really don't know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77265	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77266	Dear colleague Jelash, you have carefully analyzed the figures in this report and I certainly have nothing to add to that. I will refer to this sentence of yours when you say Croatia has no current opportunity for sports television. At this point, Croatia has no opportunity for anything. It's a matter of goodwill. You're showing, I'm talking about the Kukurik coalition of two criteria. One criterion when it comes to the man you've set up, and let's say it's Croatian Radio Television, and another criterion you show when he's headed by an institution that's not even out of politics because they didn't choose politicians, but he's not close to the ruling coalition now. The question is whether we're trying to help or not, that's all. Sports television is commercial television, there is Mr. Matesha in error. It's commercial television. But do we understand the importance of this sports television and can we help as Parliamentarians to get that sports television before we close it, the easiest thing to do is to say nothing we're putting into bankruptcy or pre-determined settlement. Remember how many hundreds of millions of you have forgiven many others for being very close to the authorities. Let's talk about it, let's coordinate some standards. Now that you're talking, it seems to me that there are policies inside, and I neither intended nor Mr. Matesha, but I am simply concerned by these different standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77267	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77268	Well, fellow Vuksic, I don't think it's about different standards. So, as I said in the debate right now, sports television is really one of the superstandards for which there are no financial opportunities. Croatian TV and even I don't think it's good to compare sports television with Croatian TV. Namely, Croatian television is a public medium and it is essential for every society and so is Croatian. I repeat sports television is something that's designed for better times and for better times it should be left behind right now. I really think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77269	Comrade Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So listening to this discussion of ours...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77271	Comrade Shuker, I'm sorry. Matesha's colleague asked for a word. I'm sorry, so we'll give you a word later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77272	Your Honor, Madam Representative, I have listened carefully to your statements and I must admit that if you, as parliamentary representatives, insist that the report be given some other form, we are prepared to do so. Now it appears in your discussion the idea that comparisons to previous years should be conducted. We, by the way, delivered Annex 4. – Implementation of the programme and the HOO budget for the period 2009 to 2012 I don't know if you've all got it or not, it's hard for me to tell, that's where it's all seen. What is relevant and what I want to draw your attention to all decisions are made legally. They were brought by the HoO Council and brought by both later and confirmed by the Assembly. All the records are there, anyone can get a look at those records. What I disagree with is your evaluation of the work of commercial audits. It would turn out to be some kind of hide-and-seek kind of thing that's gonna give you the opinion you want for a little bit of money. Well, I think it's rare who would dare to have that kind of approach from commercial audits. But what's relevant, we're not at all obliged to do commercial audits. And we ourselves want to do a commercial audit for years, pay for a commercial audit, and it's still not good. You mentioned a state audit, the latest State Audit Report is an unconditional opinion. So I really don't know what kind of opinion a state review should give in order to be satisfactory for these needs, do you? And what's relevant for 2012 and I repeat it over and over and over again, all the national alliances and all the athletes and all the athletes got everything they had planned by budget, everything. There's no one who hasn't got what's supposed to be his 2012 budget. And we won medals at the Olympics and we were 25th in the world and it's still not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77273	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77274	Dear Mr. Mateo, it's not true that he's not well again. It's good. You were supposed to conduct the debate in these two days understand what the problem is. So, the problem is sports television. And when you say that, in the previous opinions and findings of the state audit, there were no objections, or that those opinions were unconditional, so I'm going to tell you this openly, it's probably because at that time when the state audit was being conducted, there was no sports television yet. I really believe there's been a state-run review now that she would have had very serious objections to the functioning of sports television. So, our basic objection to this report is sports television. This is the problem that I am asking to start solving because the fact is that the taxpayers in the country are not ready to bear or pay for the consequences, the financial consequences, the functioning of sports television.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77275	Replication response, Zlatko Matesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77276	So, as far as sports television is concerned, and of course in this economic environment and with the halved marketing revenues in the Croatian market that you can see from the study of the Agency for Electronic Media presented several months ago in the Press House, you can see that this market is halved. And of course it's difficult and of course it's problematic and of course it's not easy to maintain. What affects me personally, bothers me or whatever you want without offending anyone is the fact that this small television is being discussed for two days as a Budget of the Republic of Croatia and that these criteria are different when it comes to, for example, public enterprise in 100 percentage states, such as the Croatian Post Office, which has invested 247.5 million kuna in EVO TV in the last 3 years. And they're not a problem. We are a problem. I agree, the problem is, we'll try to get out of this problem. But these are strange criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77277	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77278	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Matesha, you have now said that all decisions were legal and approved, confirmed by the HoO Council and the HoO Assembly. So now I don't know who's right, you or the Croatian Olympic Club? I will quote what is evident from the Croatian Olympic Club, they say: "Sports inspection findings have indicated that some of the HO’s financial transactions towards Sports TV were conducted without the decisions of the HoO Council. Similarly, according to the 2012 Supervisory Board's 2012 Programme and Financial Report, the secretary does not report to the HOO Assembly on the guarantees issued for the repayment of the 25 million-dollar sports television loan. By denying them that information, the secretary-general led the assembly to the wrong conclusion and to the adoption of an incomplete report." So now I'm interested in whether they're in error? Croatian Olympic Club who are members of your assembly, where is it true? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77279	Zlatko Matesha, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77280	Your Honor, what you have read is the opinion of one of the five members of the Supervisory Board and he has the right to his opinion but that opinion is not correct, is it? And we can hardly have a discussion through various statements from different people in the paper. I repeat again, the Olympic Club exists only in Croatia and only in the Croatian Olympic Committee because we wanted to give importance to these people who have borrowed Croatian sport. They're right, some of them, I don't want to talk about names now. Some of them, of course, have the right to have different opinions, have different opinions. This is completely democratic and legal and are still present in the Assembly and in the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee. As far as the audit is concerned, the state audit was carried out the last time in 2011 for 2010, so it also covered the establishment of sports television, and in that finding it was not at all questioned because concessions and competitions were in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77281	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So listening to these discussions yesterday and today, it's really not clear to me when we in this House are going to start to stick to what's the point of the agenda and that it's good, good for all equal good and that bad or wrong for everything is equally wrong and bad. And our government should in principle with its documents such a debate in a certain way and direct it because that the government has given an opinion on the programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee's financial report then probably our debate would not go in this direction. They would probably be in one segment if they considered that and I will return to that more detailed sports television the poor business move of the Croatian Olympic Committee looked back in one segment of their opinion but most of their opinion would go to why the Croatian Olympic Committee was founded by law. Did the Croatian Olympic Committee with the basis of sports work fulfill its tasks, whether for those 111 million kunas it receives for use and you need to know, gambling funds are intended and the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it brings an office on the distribution of these funds then it is clear why these funds go and that the government refers to that segment then their opinion on this would be different. However, colleagues and colleagues, it is funny that someone is talking about the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and at the moment when they give their opinion that the Resort Ministry knows that at that moment, it lacks a billion kuna to end in 2013 and then the Ministry and that Government are calling for the Fiscal Responsibility Act that they are violating. Well, that's funny, that's funny. And if that were the case, you saw in the budget rebalancing, the Ministry of Education approved 840 million and in order to finally show that they still don't have enough money to transport and overtime. So if you don't follow the law on your own, don't invite others to stick to it. The second thing, the ministry and the government approved this amount that the Croatian Olympic Committee has in its programme, the 111 million kuna. In fact, the Law on the implementation of the budget this year said that all budgetary users must return the surplus to the budget. That wasn't an obligation before. These were previously transferred funds from the previous year and so were used by colleagues and colleagues that we discussed in such a way would probably all have voted in favour of the Croatian Olympic Committee's work report. Why? Well, because they're gathering you as a roof organization, all those athletes had great results in London. This was witnessed by our minister who had been there for ten days, taking pictures with those medal winners, so he did not say that they were doing something wrong, then there was a place to say, because the result of the Croatian Olympic Committee's work is sports happiness and the number of medals won. About yesterday trying to impose a debate here on whether certain athletes and associations at local level are funding enough from the Croatian Olympic Committee that is the second pair of shoes to be discussed. Then we MPs must make a decision that from that part of the income tax we will not give more units of local self-government to finance this sport than it will remain at the state level for the simple reason that all Olympic candidates have the same amount of funds and not that their reward, or what they get, depends on the power of the unit of local self-government and then we will say that we are honestly thinking and thinking and thinking. If we were to discuss sports in such a way, the problem of sports would probably be easier to eradicate all the negatives in sport. But what are we talking about? About something that is not even the subject of this report, sports television is a legal person and it is not the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Olympic Committee is its founder and therefore if the Government wanted this House to specifically discuss sports television, then in their opinion they should have indicated in one segment and they consider it a bad business decision, etc. and to provide the Croatian Olympic Committee with a special report on the operation of sports television in accordance with the legal rules under which they must conduct their financial operations. Then I would say that this government is seriously considering, that this government is thinking in the spirit of sport and that this government has no intention of this report practically launching the process of destroying the leaders of the Croatian Olympic Committee and that this is how you can see the opinions on the FINA report, in one year it is a problem and needs to be replaced by management, another year it is not a problem, however, the administration has been doing great. It's just that neither administration has done certain jobs. So colleagues and colleagues are not well at looking at and measuring the same things with different opinions. That's not good. And as for sports television, look, it's a business decision. Mr Matesha here said that it is financed from its own resources, not financed from those 111 million kunas of gambling, which are the means of purpose, and that we understand that sports television should not be financed from those funds unless the regulation adopted by the Government has indicated that part of the funds is used for sports television, so that we can clear that up. So, if the Croatian Olympic Committee established this Sports Television and said it would be financed by the work of its special revenue and by the work of its own income, then it can be discussed as good and as a bad business decision. However, colleagues and colleagues, then we must take everything this country has, which is in that media space, starting with HRT, through this Evotv and anything else. If we have forgiven HRT over the past ten years some 700, 800 million taxes more times of Skegra so... so I experienced the haranga when I tried to charge those 250 million kunas and plus they have a billion and 300 million revenues from that subscription paid by all Croatian citizens and according to them we are quite..., according to their business, about Croatian citizens from sports on HRT unfortunately having nothing more, it is another pair of shoes or EvoTv. Look, the government as one of its key, strategic programmes to reduce excessive deficits says managers in companies will cut the salary 6%, and employees will be reduced 2%, while Croatia's mail from and profits according to the government's decision and according to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, then these 247 and a half million have a special weight because if the Minister for the first time in the history of the Croatian State and the Government in the Law on Budgets has installed that and that companies in which the state is a majority owner and in which the state is a minority owner, must pay their profits in the budget. Then colleagues and colleagues, if someone has invested in 3 years 247.5 million kunas in some kind of television, and has made 3 million dollars a year, so it doesn't make sense for someone to ask themselves a question, wait a little while, if we're on one side raising the price of this, we're raising the VAT, now the government is going to raise the excise duty for 20 lips to raise some 400 million, and at the same time a public company spends 275 million kuna on establishing some kind of television that works the way it works and no one cares and no one is discussing it. And then the logical thing is to ask one question, so when you look at this opinion of the Government, when you listen to the debates of colleagues primarily from the SDP and the Croatian Pensions Party, then it's obvious that this opinion serves exclusively for the political programme because if it were based on arguments, no one in this House would raise his hand against it. But you can't not look back at the work, what the Croatian Olympic Committee as a... sports organization exists and notes the facts and then mentions that and there is something else there and let him choose to provide information that can be discussed. No, that doesn't matter to us. Sports TV is a problem, sports television is guilty because there are 400 thousand unemployed in Croatia, because Croatia will have an economic downturn this year, because I don't know who in some club didn't do this or that, it's all sport TV's fault. However, colleagues and colleagues, I will end it. The key question is whether the money from the state budget that was paid to the Croatian Olympic Board for the purpose of sports programmes went to the Sports Television? And when we talk about paying, colleagues and colleagues, look at the report of how much of this salary money goes for the coach's salary? And the question arises would many young adults have a coach if he were not paid by the Croatian Olympic Committee? Would Croatia have so many medals if we didn't have so many great kids in the cadets, juniors? After all, how many of these kids have failed, precisely because they haven't had adequate follow-up through the sports program, and unfortunately, it's not good that we talk this way about what we all should be proud of, and when we don't need them for political and political purposes, then we like to get muddled up by it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77283	Don't knock. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77284	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, you spoke in your debate about how the government came by this report. Unfortunately, she confused her majority in parliament, they voted unanimously for this report to be accepted, and then when the government responded, i.e. Minister Jovanovic then seduced everyone in the government, and now most of them are thinking something else. But that's because in that government, I think it's totally dissipating. Nobody knows anything there anymore, the authorities don't give up, but people's problems don't solve it. They're everyday, they're visible, and they're just piling up. They started dealing with themselves, but I'm just saying, the authorities don't want to give up even though they're getting bigger and bigger problems a day. They don't care about the people. So let's just take a look at the agenda and discuss what we're discussing. We don't even know what we're going to do this afternoon, which we're going to do tomorrow, we're just lost in space. So far, the saying of "Crouch and Games" has been valid, and this government has turned it around. Now we have a bread-free game. It's just that a man doesn't believe it because when we look at the relationship to this report, it's very visible exactly that. They don't mind what you said, when a public company of Croatian mail invests in EvoTv 245 million kuna where it incomes 3 and a half a year, that's why 1,000 people from the system were fired and then shipments and letters were brought to the problem and nobody was bothered because there was a complex structure. They are bothered by those who are trying to launch a normal project that has its long-term duration, but only because the party has understood and wants to take some chairs that they kind of like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77285	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77286	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, fellow Boric, it is very interesting that the committee of the parent parliamentary working body unanimously supported this report. And it's very interesting that some board members are the loudest in yesterday's, today's debate not to admit the report. Now it is not clear to me, if you read the report and you are to it and, ultimately, in that report, the Committee is not to be praised at the expense of the HOO, the Committee has realistically discussed certain problems, pointed out some things that might have been improved, and in the end it is also the function of the parliamentary working bodies. But it's very interesting a month later the government appears with its opinion, not with its opinion, but with its opinion, but with its opinion and parliamentary representatives, and that's the biggest problem, she took their opinion. As for working in the Parliament, I would be happier if we were to discuss the agenda points tomorrow which will in a certain way indicate that Croatia is coming out of the economic crisis. We interrupt yesterday at five o'clock, today we'll discuss this only because this House can't work if the government doesn't send the laws. And we would be far happier if the government was sending laws, not that the government wanted to put their opinions into our heads. We have our own opinions, and let the government have its own opinions, so let's take a critical look at it and promote it, and that's the only way that we can do something good for this country. But in such a way that someone takes your opinion and serves their opinion as something that's the right thing to do and then makes you talk about something that you don't even agree with at least without talking funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77287	Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77288	Col. Shuker, when this assembly is more of a debate on the financial report HOO than a debate on the state budget, and in fact we're talking about it myself yesterday, it's something like the ice cream, then I agree with you that this is not only like political persecution, but this is a political persecution of sports, instead of dealing with how the Croatian state will express itself at the opening of the world championship, that the Croatian tourism community is buying huge television spaces all over the world because several billion will watch this opening of the World Cup, we are talking about it and we all agree that it is the most unfortunate that sports television is needed, and that no television is operating in plus and that this is the business decision of the HOO. However, it is unfortunate and tragic that our colleagues from the opposite side do not mind what the post office has invested and what thousands of people have lost their jobs, it does not bother anyone here that 54 million kunas for sales advisers have been paid for privatisation of Croatia, and what is said about us before Christ to whom Croatia's insurance will be sold, it does not bother anyone. But it bothers sports television because these people who run the HoO and Croatian sports bother someone and someone doesn't like them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77289	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77290	Thank you very much. That fellow Kulušić, yesterday it was not said that the Croatian football team will have the honour and happiness to open the World Cup in football with Brazil and to be watched by 4 billion people. And instead of looking at it as... colleagues and colleagues you have the right to have a microphone so tell me no one is defending you. So instead of looking at it as a first-rate sporting event and an economic presentation of Croatia, we are not going to get muddled. How much did we pay for some lame advisors so let's just say for Clean Start who attributed those documents that existed already in Croatia, let's say for a guarantee or some guarantee for Croatia to be the organizer of the European basketball championship is 5 million euros. So if Slovenia, Serbia, BiH probably and Montenegro will participate in the championship, can anyone even calculate how much Croatia will earn five million euros times. Because if the Slovenians managed to do it, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't do it, why someone's fighting between Zagreb and Split. So isn't it enough of a fight over where we're going to play a game of a potential European football championship? That's what our people would say on willow, but it's important that we fight over it. And while we're fighting, we're gonna get hit by a third, and that's the problem with these discussions of ours. No one is so that I do not know who on the other hand to justify his irregularities, but Croatia as a country that is in crisis, and sport and business had all had the opportunity to see those yesterday who watched those two matches of the European Champions' League how many hundreds of millions are yesterday... evening in Madrid and Munich, and last night in Dortmund, London. But let's just say that when Dinamo plays the Champions League, then it's no good, spithole, let's boycott. Who will have more chance in life to watch Cristian Ronald or the Messiah or anyone else live? This raises the question of whether our top sport allows us to be able or not to watch on our own terrain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77291	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77292	Dear colleague Shuker, you said when you mentioned the fiscal responsibility law that you found it ridiculous. It's tragic for me that the Fiscal Responsibility Act is not respected. If the fiscal responsibility law were to be respected by the state, the central state then quite certainly to be able to, I agree with you differently, but today we need to be better than the government. So we need to advocate that the Law on fiscal responsibility is respected and that it is absolutely certain that the HoO is the one who should obey the laws and act according to the laws. So that those who listen, if someone listens to us, are not mistaken, it's commercial television. When we talk about Croatian radio television, then it's about public television. We're talking about the need for sports television in Croatia, so it wouldn't, that's a big difference. When you spoke of fiscal responsibility, the government deficit was projected to be 10 billion, it turned out to be 17 billion, 7 billion just falsified, not much to eat. The other thing is, just what I've been doing to my colleague before, there are different standards. When you spoke about Croatian radio TV 800 million kuna is exempt from taxes. It has often been manipulated with Croatian Radio Television and has been trying to discipline Croatian radio television, they will not pay taxes. You know that it was, at one point it was asked to be paid, but then when they gave in a little bit then it was no longer required to pay for that television. What is worrying, what you were saying, and what Mr. Mateša was saying is that Croatia is investing 247 million dollars without anyone in this crisis knowing what it is investing in, why it invests, 247 million kunas in EVO TV. So I'm calling, here's an opportunity for the DORH to show that there are no different standards, to see under what conditions it is invested in and why, for that reason, the public doesn't know what it's investing in and why it's investing in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77293	Thank you. Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77294	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, is a law that I am personally very proud of, and because of it, I have received a lot of blows because of my lack of understanding, and he has been brought exactly the reason why no one in the state budget can spend more than what this high house has granted him. Because the Parliament adopts the budget, although the budgetary user realizes that he cannot implement his programme with the resources approved by the Parliament, then he must give him his mandate, practically, or seek rebalancing. And I mentioned it in the Fiscal Responsibility Act in the context of the Government's opinion, where those who know that at that point they were short a billion and a half kuna, because look if your deficit increases by 7 billion kuna, you didn't just miss the income side, but you missed the expenditure side. At that moment when you know you've missed the budget for so much and so much money you don't want to admit it publicly, you're calling for someone to be responsible. As for HRT and taxes, look at the 2003 election year. The High House decided in February to carry out financial and all possible controls on HRT and this ended and the finding was waiting. So did I when I took over the role of Minister of Finance. Suddenly, that finding appeared on my desk. But also by amending the Value Added Tax Act, it is clearly defined that those costs that have been made with the basis of the payment, the subscriptions paid by citizens, are not actually subject to VAT and do not have the right to refuse as pre-taxes, so that the disagreement is defined. But what's crucial is what you said in your replica, which is unfortunately that different scale. Different criteria for the same thing are criminal, good is good and it has no political party, nor this one, it has a name and name. And be sure when we start thinking that way, then there's no need to fight like this, but the worst thing is that with some half of the data we want to do political shifts, and that's what's not good because sports and politics are tied up, but should it not be that politics affects everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77295	Sasha Djujic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77296	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you said that the government did not give any opinion to the report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, because it has given that we would be having a different discussion here today. That's just not true. The government has given its opinion and it is negative, and I see that you have seen it since you often mention that the government's only argument is the Law on fiscal responsibility, which is at the beginning of that report. But this report also has 4.5 pages on which other arguments are mentioned, which is why this opinion is negative, and this is not just Sports Television and it is not just Sports Television a problem in the business of the Croatian Olympic Committee. And it is in this opinion that you see the problem of decisions related to the business of sports television, the problem of the evaluation criteria of the National Sports Alliance programme, that the problem of the Olympic Academy was also mentioned yesterday, that the problem of making decisions related to the business of sports television, the way and the legality of lending and guarantees. There's a whole series of irregularities here. And that, those are arguments, these arguments are talked about but these arguments are constantly being pushed a little bit through this debate and the debate is being pushed in another direction. She's being accused of politicizing the debate, so we didn't do it, these are the arguments we're talking about. When we talk about politicisation, here's the debate of fellow Boric, he has outdone his statements and Grunfa in recent days. Your mouth is full of political persecution. This is not a political persecution of fellow Shuker, this debate is an indication of irregularities, intransparency and poor business on the Croatian Olympic Committee. And that's what the goal is for all of us to point out these irregularities to fix, to change, and here's what I said yesterday, the government's only interest is to control the dedicated spending of funds. And I'm sorry, another sentence. You speak, you justify the business of sports television, that it is a business decision and that it is financed from its own resources. This is partly true, only these own funds are not enough to operate sports television. And if it's all about sports, isn't it in everyone's interest and their own incomes to direct to sports in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77297	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77298	Coli Đujic, we have the programme point and the financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Sports TV is a special legal person. And then this is where it should have been added. I'm a legalist and a little bit more, don't be angry, I know about financial reports and that means consolidated someone else and has no intention of teaching you that lesson because it wouldn't be correct, because you might know another area. I don't want to get down to that level. And that's what I've been saying all along. And that's why I said the government didn't make a correct opinion. You were on the board for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77299	No, I wasn't on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77300	And why, then, you're a club rep. I to my colleagues from the club, I beg you nicely, I listened politely while you spoke. I'm asking you nicely. Madam Vice President. Look, buddy, when you don't have the arguments and you don't have a point like this. But it was known that the Croatian Olympic Committee's report was based on the government's opinion a first-class political point. And when representatives from a club go to the board, then they're given the opinion of a club that they have to represent. If anyone wants their own opinion, they can say my opinion and that's the attitude. And it was with our representatives and your representatives at certain points. But it was unanimous here, that's one thing. The second thing, sports television is business. So you keep running away from the Croatian Olympic Committee having its own income and that Sports TV is not some lame business decision, sports television should have been used to promote certain sports. It's mostly those sports where the coaches at the Olympic Academy are educated. You for a bunch of small sports wouldn't have trained coaches in the Republic of Croatia if they hadn't been educated through the Olympic Academy. It's the same story as when you canceled your tax study. Same story. Croatia has lost experts who know law and finance. That's right here. If this wasn't for a bunch of little sports, we wouldn't have coaches. Well, isn't it more important that we have these coaches than to deal with some crap right now? What are we talking about? I don't care who my kid trains. Absolutely. .../Thank you very much./... Just one sentence, please, because it took my time. Because it matters to whom you give your child for training because the child and travels with him and that man takes care of him. So it can't be some lame guy. And if there's no school, thank God the Olympic Board started the academy, and we don't spit in that academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77301	Please, I tolerate you talking any longer, but this is a little too much. And when you replicate, have the nerve and patience to hear the answer. Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77302	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague Shuker, I believe that you listened to my debate yesterday, you were here the whole time, and then I said and there we can agree that all the problems of Croatian sports do not come from the Croatian Olympic Committee or the Croatian Olympic Committee can solve them. We always take the right to discuss a topic, so the Croatian Olympic Committee is here about sports to maybe discuss and spread a little. But what I really want to do again, and that's where I say my opinion because I said it, and in an individual debate, it's that I'm bothered by the intransparentity of the availability of public money. So, this report clearly lists all those categories, columns and the like, and I haven't received an answer unfortunately yet, but I am interested in what criteria this money is being allocated to. Why, for example, the Croatian Football Federation received a million and 700 thousand kuna, why it received 4 million basketball, why it received 450 thousand mountaineering. So I'm interested in the clear criteria by which it's distributed. Furthermore, when we talk about local sport and funding programmes at the county level, why one of the largest counties and unfortunately the most economically undeveloped say Osijek-Baranja has received only 109 thousand kuna, why Istria, for example, has got 316 that has capacity, so local self-government units have the capacity to finance sport more than the Osijek-Baranja County. The answer was also not received or mentioned in the report at all why some national alliances, i.e. associations are members of the Olympic Committee and some are not. As far as I know there is a Croatian volleyball association but there is also a Croatian volleyball union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77303	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77304	My colleague Hajduković, first of all to answer this last question, should be answered by colleagues from the Croatian Olympic Committee when one association becomes a member of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the other is automatically deleted. I can't have two of the same sports being members, that's something. However, look at your colleagues and colleagues. I left this for the last line. No one here has asked themselves why the Croatian budget of the funds we raised has raised hands for them and those who were against but have been brought into this House for 2014 and 2013 why it is not paid by such dynamics as is foreseen by the Budget Act. That's one dozen. Or if there are reasonable reasons then more. None of you asked that question. Why did the Croatian Olympic Committee not receive nearly 40 million kuna in the first four months of this year? Now, you've asked that question, and if you said you didn't get it because of the irregularities, then I'd tell you O.K., you argued that, but you kept it quiet. Second thing, colleagues and colleagues. You should look at the documents that are being adopted here. Therefore, the Croatian Olympic Committee as well as the fight against addiction and some others who receive money from both NGOs and minorities, who receive money for certain gambling programmes, present a specific programme and, on the basis of this, the Government makes the allocation of funds by means of a regulation. Based on this, the Olympic Committee has a financial plan. But let's say now that one of the Olympic committee is looking for a financial report at the moment. What would they write in revenue for the first 4 months of the zero budget, and it's as big as Sljeme. At the same time, the minister has no right to do so, and no one has allowed him to deny the funds to the budget user if there is no reasonable reason. But no one has talked about it for two days. And is that correct of us? It's not. E colleagues and colleagues that we have spoken against, against such will, but I'm also telling you the text that the minister sent to an Olympic board member is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77305	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77306	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you asked, you asked what was the key question. Croatia is only successful in sport and tourism. The problem with the Croatian Olympic Committee is that it is successful. And that's the key to the problem. Probably if they weren't successful in this kind of debate, there wouldn't be. It is successful among other things because thanks to the Croatian Olympic Committee there is one strategy for sports development, sports financing and sports concerns. Unfortunately, that's something, that strategic thinking is something that is simply not appropriate for this government and the ruling coalition, and they simply don't account for it. The question of what we've been breaking all along this television is a matter of one strategic decision and long-term concern for sport. Unfortunately, we have been witnessing for 2.5 years here that we have not brought any key strategic document and therefore all this discussion is turned simply in the wrong direction. We have the most unsuccessful government of all the governments that have existed in Croatia so far, and we simply cannot discuss key things. The problem with this report is, among other things, that it simply needs to spend time because there are no points on the agenda, and it should be spent until tomorrow at noon or when this session will be. So instead of talking about success, we heard that 2012 was the most successful year in Croatian sport so far, we have reduced this to a discussion that everyone should be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77307	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77308	Thank you very much. Now, Comrade Tudjman, this replica came in as a cake cream. At the head of all the Olympic committees in the world are dignitaries, whether political, economic or sports, people of names and last names, and I cannot forget the pride of '92. The late Drazen and my other basketball players, Goran with that tape and coat of arms and look, all forgot who made the biggest contribution to Croatia at the time, some kind of private connection and so that Croatia becomes a member of the International Olympic Committee. We forgot that, as we forgot the pride that filled us in '98. when we ran out of World Cup finals for a handful of accidents and sports tragedies. We forget all that, but when it comes to a variety of political reasons, we do it great. However, sports giants with countries that respect their tradition, both cultural, political and every one, have no way of happening. And we also have cases if these great sports violate certain laws of their homeland, they sanction them without mercy. We had this example in a country that is very close to us and dear to us, Germany. The biggest stars were sanctioned because they committed tax violations. Who forbids us to do this in Croatia and no one will be angry about it, nor must those who worship them pay for it. But no, we just want because someone bothers us to remove it because it may not be from the same political thinking as we or God forbid it belongs to a political party. So all the inspections that led to football clubs in early 2000 were due to the fact that in the 10 years of the late President Tudjman's rule, everything was a crime and sport, and sport was the biggest promotion of Croatia but it had to be covered. And that's our problem, and that's what we are in this High House, so no matter what political option we belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77309	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77310	Dear colleague Shuker, I must repeat that no one on this side has really disputed the sports results of the Croatian Olympic Committee. What we have been talking about for two days now is the finances of the Croatian Olympic Committee, so we must be responsible, we must point to problems precisely for the reason for these problems to be solved. What is not good is an attempt to compare the problems of the state so when it comes to fiscal responsibility with the problems of certain users of the state budget, so you're actually saying that even the Croatian Olympic Committee should not be fiscally responsible because the government cannot achieve fiscal responsibility. So I have to tell you that this is really a very bad and very irresponsible message, especially since your government has made a very abundant contribution to the fact that the current government is having a very difficult time achieving this very fiscal responsibility at the moment. So it's not someone's business, so the Minister's or the Minister's will that fiscal responsibility cannot be realised right now, it's simply the way you said objective nature. No money, no money, and you know it very well. You cannot compare the problems of the Croatian Olympic Committee with national problems and invite users not to comply with the laws, so that there would be even more chaos in the country, that the state would be even harder to deal with these problems, but it is actually your principle of functioning. The worse, the better. And you have finally set an example of FINA as proof of the double standards of the current government in assessing someone's business. Therefore, indeed, the government had assessed the operations of the FINA negatively for so long as the financial result of the FINA was negative and until the FINA was restructured. The moment the restructuring was completed, when the FINA started to do positive business and the government's opinion on the FINA business was positive, and that's that. There are no double standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77311	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77312	Comrade Jelash, don't be angry, but we discussed this report two weeks ago. Profit for 2010 is higher than profits for 2012 almost 30 million kuna. So when you have a higher profit of 30 million kuna, you won't get a positive opinion, and when you have a lower profit, you'll get a positive opinion. Well, that's what you said. That's it, you're still replicating me about that depreciation that for that 20 million was the cost of depreciation in 2012 by 29 million less than in 2011. I remember the numbers well, so what I say one time, it stays carved, and there's no way I'm gonna say something else another time. Therefore, what I said here and here, the Croatian Olympic Committee received from the Government from the budget of 111 million kuna, 111 million kuna based on a specific programme and government in its analysis of the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee was to be based on the 111 million basis that the programme gave the 111 million. And if the government had shown themselves about it then we would have talked about it differently here, but the government hasn't shown itself about it, the government is listing a bunch of unsuspecting things to make sports television right as some kind of problem. We can discuss sports television as a business move for good, bad failure, we can discuss a million things. However, it is the same story we can take Croatian highways. If you look at them separately, they're economically not justified because they'll never make enough traffic to cover themselves. But what about our tourism, which would have happened to Lika and the Dalmatian Zagora if we didn't have that Croatian highway. So their impact is multiple positive of that. So here and here, we have these little sports dealing with thousands, tens of thousands of children to promote. We need to get the kids interested in going to sports halls to get out of the bar or somewhere else, and we can only do that if they see that sport and feel that sport is lying to them. But then we have to put something into it. That's the meaning of the story and sports television. And if she achieves So let the economic program come true, let it work with the profits, and they'll get into the sport. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77313	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77314	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the Olympic Committee. Well, Mr. Shuker, you said that there was a change of opinion from the board and from the club of representatives. I believe after Minister Jovanovic's intervention, because otherwise there can be no ex post mind and evaluation, and the present state that is presented as if nothing was good, that everything was against the law. That's what we've been through. We saw Jovanovic, the squadrons, the attacks, the flat-rate evaluations, the title, the name of the Croatian Olympic Committee as a new swamp, and it was another one in a series of attacks for purely political reasons, but the only goal in this whole is to inaugurate political personnel, political party personnel, and then everything would be fine, then everything would be positive and just as positive as in Vukovar, as positively likely as in Sisak-Moslavina County. But we believe that as nature confirms when they bite, they no longer exist. We see from all these intentions that happen that this subsequent mind only causes one thing to talk about negativity because successes can't be acknowledged. I'm not going to admit it to you, even if he's the brightest, the best, I'm going to find you a grudge to change you politically, discredit you, and to set up those who will be my obedient. It is unfortunate that members of the club have changed their positions and acquired an ex-post mind under Jovanovic's influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77315	Ivana Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77316	When you look at this report from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I think there are no athletes and there is no well-intentioned man who will not support this report. Why? Well, because he touched exactly what protects Croatian sport and thinking and thinking. So the board members felt that maybe certain items in expenditure should look different, that maybe we should give a little more to these and a little less to those. They also pointed out what was the real problem. Local self-government units don't have all the resources to finance equally high-end sports. And what is very important and no wonder that this conclusion is given to the head of the board as a doctor, which is that it was pointed out that the Croatian Olympic Committee should take more care of the medical control of young athletes. Because it doesn't really matter what kind of training treatment and everything is given to young people, to those kids when they're the most sensitive and developmental, muscle and bone. Unfortunately, many suffer from excessive training. So if you look at only these three items I don't think there's anyone in this House who won't support it and these are facts. And where did we go, colleague Djakic? However, I kept saying here everyone has their own food chain, so he gets bit by a mosquito.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77317	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77318	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Shuker, I agree with part of your debate when you said that, with all these days already on the second day, we gave quite a lot of space to discuss sports television, and that we did not talk too much about the Croatian Olympic Committee's report, although all that was said about sports television does not serve the honour of such and such television. Just look, look at today's program. Unfortunately, she does not speak, i.e. Not all of these affirmative things about youth sports, about sports of unaffirmed sports are on her program. Unfortunately, on her program today, there are no more reasons for that. What is crucial and you talked about that without the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee there would be no development programs, there would be many coaches, there would be many programs for athletes. And I'm asking you exactly that and going back to the 2012 programming and financial report why these exactly aren't being met, so from the planned development programmes, the planned 15 million is only being met 75%. Only 61% of the programme for athletes has been filled, the coaching programme is significantly more than 89% but below the planned levels. And for the activities of the bodies and services of the joint, so for the dry functioning of the Croatian Olympic Committee 102%, salaries 98%, material costs 110, body function and service 137, the big day of Croatian sport 106 was breached, the Draž Petrović 120 award was breached, etc. etc. Here, Mr. Shuker, I am going back to the 2012 Programme and Financial Report debate so that you are somewhat rhetorical, and Mr. Matesha, will have time to answer why the items that are important are not fulfilled, i.e. They are filled much less than planned, and those that are for naked functioning are much more. And the last item I'm going to mention here are, let's say, the international obligations of the members planned for two and six, and the completed million and seven hundred means only 65%. These international obligations will not escape, they will have to be, i.e. They had to be paid thirteen and fourteen. The financial report, therefore, says that the funds did not have the attention of a good economic operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77319	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77320	A colleague of Radjenovic, if you had listed the item where those money was spent, and they didn't spend in sports, then that would have been okay. And why it's done here, just a little bit please, why it's done here with 65%, it'll probably be answered by the representatives of the HOO. And when you look at the wages then you'll see that the biggest part, and that's what colleagues and colleagues have to be honest with themselves, most of the pay costs go to coaches. This part so if we think that people in HoO have too many salaries then at the moment when the government adopts the regulation then the government can simply say you won't get that much money for the administration's salaries, you'll get less, you'll get along with it. Therefore, it is the Government who gives money. And please nice, no, of course not, but this way when you need to spit, then it's the government that needs to spit. However, I continue to argue that the goal of sports television is to be commercial or is sports television aimed at promoting certain small sports or is it both? Therefore, and if we want to talk about it then we need to have a special point here, be the Assembly's conclusion that we are being delivered the Sports Television Financial Report and some vision in which that Sports Television should go. Well, at the end of the day, there won't be people in the HOO going down, there's a lot of people who are very interested in covering all these minuses and getting that sports frequency, so be sure. Well, that's why we're having this debate. It's not because someone's madly concerned about sports on TV. Also see how much you pay for these online or cable TV monthly so you can watch sports events you don't have on HRT. Over 300 kuna a month is your sports package. ... No, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For Arena 1 and Sports Club 1. What about the other three Arenas and the other two Sports Clubs? Don't, Mr. Schamper, whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77321	On behalf of the Proposer, President of the Committee, Zlatko Mateša. A colleague, Mateš, for a pay phone when speaking on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77322	I'll only hold on to answers to specific questions. A fellow representative who has already asked the same question several times yesterday and today, the esteemed colleague's schedule of funds is determined by national alliances under 2 regulations. One is called the Regulation on the criteria and criteria of programming and financing public needs of state-level sport, the other is called the Regulation on criteria for the financing of national sports alliances. Both acts exist, adopted by the HoO Assembly, which is responsible for their adoption. Based on these acts and the results achieved over the past years, the budgets of the national alliances are being established. So I hope I just answered that question. Football, football gets disproportionately little funding from the HOO budget because they are a financially extremely stable organisation and it can be said that HNS indirectly co-finances other national alliances by not taking what would otherwise belong to it according to its results. Because being among the top 10 or 15 in the world would have a huge financial weight. Local sport isn't a basic job of HOO. But we just wanted to help our members of the county sports communities and the City of Zagreb in a way that they run their projects, they run projects, and these projects one commission then approves and we co-finance them together. Therefore, these are projects related to the counties, the City of Zagreb and specific projects for the city of Vukovar and the city of Knin and the islands. Next thing you know, fellow MPs have no question that sports television is not an obligation, so there is no obligation to finance it because it is not of interest for Croatian sport. And there's really a man who stays a little confused because when this TV set up, the National Sports Council, which is the largest body of the Parliament in the field of sports, gives the opinion that it is an extremely important public sport service. You, when you adopt the 2014 Budget in this House, say among the tasks of the HOO is the financing of sports television. So I think really then a man stays confused and you don't know if it's any more interest, no interest, etc. And the last thing, distinguished vice presidents and distinguished MPs and MPs. We made this negative view of the government in October last year. We also sent it to the Chamber's parent board. Therefore, everyone could get it, see, read and see first of all if there are any irregularities, of course everyone will be held accountable, but irregularities determine those bodies that by law have the right to do so and who are given it in jurisdiction. Therefore, it is the Ministry of Finance, the State Audit and all those bodies responsible. Irregularities are not determined in the press.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77323	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77324	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Matesha, here I will repeat what I repeated yesterday at 4.30 p.m., from 9:30 p.m. yesterday to today you are sitting here and we are discussing the 2012 report. Today and yesterday, you made several arguments and, of course, you said if there are no irregularities, that it would be settled by the law of a mandatory institution. However, you see, fellow Matesha, we wouldn't all be here in the Parliament, especially this side, if we had sat for the budget for two days and three days, and if there had been a debate on this side, there wasn't. That's when it was just us arguing, the arguments weren't being respected. We would not be sorry to sit here for two days and discuss problems in the economy, lack of investment in agriculture, problems of 390,000 unemployed, problems of 30,000 young people leaving. This debate is hard to see those 390,000 without a job because they don't even have television. We'd be discussing problems for three days and four if we needed both railroads and teachers and teachers. But what is it that wants to create the perception of this Parliament? This Parliament wants to create in the people that this Parliament can discuss for two days the Croatian Olympic Committee, its 2012 report, which the Committee supported and on the other hand what it shows? So this shows the total lack of interest of this government, which because of its lack of knowledge to the Croatian people does not spread and does not explain, does not justify the problems of Croatia today, but simply when there are no arguments changes perception. That was mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77325	Comrade twilight, first you took up the line when Mr. Matesha didn't even say the whole first sentence. And now you're not replicating at all, but you're not expressing your opinions. You abused a business institute. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77326	Dear President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Well, actually, we're on this second day here's the most time we spend in our debates about sports television. I have to admit, I've been putting two televisions on my feet and I have to admit that a very strange cross is sports television. She is a crusader, you said nice here today and the Croatian Parliament supported sports television, indirectly supported her. Therefore, the sports television, although commercial, essentially received the support of the Croatian Parliament and thus became a public interest. It wouldn't occur to anyone at this point to suggest that a new TV or RTL be discussed, commercial televisions because commercial televisions are a matter of the market, this is not the case here. Here's the case, you said, you got from the highest sports body appointed by the Parliament, meaning held by a sports body, the National Sports Council. Well, that's just saying that we have bad legislation in the area and that I'm a Parliament and the government doesn't know what to do with the projects it's supported. So it's the same with sports television that you said yesterday that you would invest your money in sports television, I wouldn't invest in sports television right now because it's very hard without what I said yesterday, without brass, sports television to keep on a positive zero, not on a positive zero, because there's no negative and positive zeroes because it's all pure fiction, so when you're given an attempt to get on your feet sports television, it's hypocritical because it means both the Parliament and the government and the documents say that they supported sports TV at one point, now the political option has changed, so they probably don't support it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77327	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Ada Damian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77328	I thank the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the second day we are discussing the report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. This kind of interest in the debate in this House is clearly about problems both in the Croatian Olympic Committee's report and in sports in general. From all the debates we have heard and the replica comes several thesis, something that we all agree on is that we are not in favour of abolishing sports television but we are so that it has to be financed differently and that it cannot guarantee the return of credit to be the Croatian Olympic Committee because it will be directly at the expense of sport. I have never heard that no bank lends loans like this on beautiful eyes or on a beautiful programme if there is no firm guarantee and there is a solid guarantee here on the Croatian Olympic Committee which is financed by safe funds from the Croatian budget. So, the redesign of Croatian television in the programming and financial sense, because it is also the software part that does not meet our needs. The second thing that we all agreed on in the debates which is the role and task of the Croatian Olympic Committee is, normally, his task is to develop and improve sports, care about Olympicism and amateurism. The third thing is the transparent spending of public money, which is not fully visible from these reports. The message from all our discussions is needed by those we had is that we should also make a clear vision of the development of sports and sports development strategies. When we talk about successful Olympics, then I can't help but look back at young hopes, young talents that develop and come from local backgrounds. How important sport is for young people is not even needed to speak, and we must therefore say that large funds at local level are separated for sport. As the head of a local community, it's very important for as many young people as possible to be involved in sports activities, so here's a positive example, my local community, my municipality, to finance 15 sports clubs with budget funds. The Croatian Olympic Committee allocates funds and forwards them to the National Alliances, however, there is no information on how these funds are being spent and on what criteria are being allocated. If at a local level you have a talented, young athlete, there is no great opportunity to help him, to create conditions for him to progress. Obviously, we invest a little bit in talent, and unfortunately, they only succeed if they are accompanied by families with great denials. Help and care for these young talents should be the core task of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The successes of these talents of top athletes are the successes of all Croatia. A top athlete with talent becomes a great effort, work, pawning and giving up. It is good to promote Olympicism from the age of kindergarten, a bit of a kindergarten Olympics, but it is also burdened by units of local self-government and local clubs that help and engage around the organization. More engagements of the Croatian Olympic Committee through the National Alliance should be made. Yesterday and today in debates and replicas, politics, politicizing, demagogy, I would say no to sports politics, but that sport in politics. When I say that, then my colleagues think of sports behavior, cultural communication and fair play, not uncultural advances and intolerances and blows under the belt. It is necessary to stop at the ball, again by sports jargon, and in our communication and communication on sports grounds because our communication is being transmitted further. Finally, while reading the Croatian Olympic Committee's report and the financial report, while listening to discussions on both the left and right, I asked myself a few questions. Did the Croatian Olympic Committee complete its mission? Did the Croatian Olympic Committee do all that it needed? Did he run public money transparently? My answer is no. For this reason, I believe that this report cannot be accepted and that this two-day debate must be based on the future programme of work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the future report of the Croatian Olympic Committee. And finally, Mr. Matesha, I'm talking to you in the Olympic spirit, don't let these discussions we've been having here be like, "It's important to participate," but it's important to change what wasn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77329	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77330	Thank you very much. My colleague, I am a little touched by your debate about what you have said, which is that there is no transparent cost of the Croatian Olympic Committee. I read this material on page 31 and 31 and in the 50 items that are shown here are exactly written every expenditure of the Croatian Olympic Committee. In addition, I would also like to say that in this country, we stand out 0.7% for science, and this is your proposal and your government's implementation, as well as for the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Government gives 110 million kuna a year, which is 0.1% of the Republic's budget, or 0.1% which is a disaster. I know that the crisis and the situation is like this, but what Croatia is carrying out in the world, what the Croatian name is going on in the world is just a sport. We are more worth the name of one Shuker in Indonesia or in Bali, when I said I was from Croatia, then they didn't know where it was, and when I said about the world football championship and about, so Shuker and Croatia are recognised by sport, Croatia is recognised by football. Therefore, it would be far more necessary to consider you as ruling more investment, a greater contribution to the Croatian Olympic Committee than you are criticising the fully clearly stated items of expenditure in this report, which is completely clear and transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77331	Ada Damianac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77332	But fellow Grubisic, the government is ours, mine, but it's also yours. When we speak and when I mention the non-transparent spending of money, then here's an example, loans. The Croatian Olympic Committee keeps saying it is from its own resources. The loans that were made, not to speak out of core capital, you want to check through which... and how did it go down? In different ways. Then, it was mentioned and we read from the report that the funds were not completely spent on sports, for the Olympics precisely, precisely for the progress of sports, and further for the financing of alliances. Will you please tell me how the alliances were financed, by what criteria and where that money was spent? The Croatian Olympic Committee did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77333	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77334	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Damjanac, it is nice to hear that you advocate young talents in small areas, in units of local self-government because we are aware that many and significant great sports names have come from these small environments that have had modest conditions, almost no conditions, but exceptional denial. But it is also necessary to repeat and say that it is necessary and to provide them with the conditions, it is necessary to ensure in general the existence in these small environments that I often talk about, which are really at this moment in very difficult circumstances if I also talk about that segment of agriculture that I often talk about and economic activities for sure, and therefore it is good to say that more is speaking one piece of a hundred words than it is also about encouraging and economic and all kinds of activities. But the other was good to hear the part where you advocate a particular ferplay that was needed in sports activities that was undeniable in sport in doing so contributes in any case. But it's not clear to me at all then you finally mentioned one word, saying punches under the belt if I remembered correctly you said. Then I can't figure out how to make one decision on the board, so now she just recalls here in this debate. That looks like the part where that football player chases through and this guy waits behind his back, it's a red card for me. It's just one red card violation. No, it's not about ferpley. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77335	The answer to the replica of Ada Damianac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77336	I thank my colleague for his commendation. So again you mentioned in that sport we had a jargon and a dictionary and blows under the belt and a statue on the ball and a red card, when we mentioned the funds. So I'm going to say that those funds that the HoO spends untransparently, but again I'm going to say we're not against neither Mr. Matesha nor against the Olympic Committee, but we're only asking that the report be reported, so before we accept the report now we don't accept it. Because later and the review, or sports inspection, asked for a report and now you explain to me whether you could bring a revision to local self-government units later or this year for the past year. Well, you can't, not that you're going to get a red card, but you'll end up in Remetic if you do. So the report can't be changed and audited for the last year of this year, it's one of those things that makes it impossible to accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77337	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77338	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues Damianac what you were saying about investing in sports by local self-government is all true. It could probably be a little different in the Olympic Committee's budget, and perhaps any kuna could be given more to local self-government, but it would not solve the problem. So what I have reported to you for the replica is, in fact, you've stuck to a whole wide topic, you've stuck to the topic of total financing of sports in the Republic of Croatia, which is definitely not legally well-solved specifically amateur sport, but not only by that law. And the other day when we talked about funding associations, we said that there would be a problem right at local levels in local sports, so when you move on to the Law on Legalization and there are problems. So it all comes down to local self-government, and that's what HoO can't solve, but it has to be solved once and for all by a comprehensive debate and a comprehensive view of all the problems if we want to help at local level. I often find it funny when a athlete and those categories are declared and local self-government is now said to secure money for it. That athlete is not an athlete at the level of local self-government, he's a national athlete at that point. So you should secure the funds, but as counterpart Grubisic said earlier, too little money is too little for sport, too little is invested in the health of young people and the preservation of these young people through sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77339	Ada Damjana, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77340	I agree with my colleague Hrg absolutely, not just for young athletes, I am for young artists and scientists, so we need to find the possibility and I believe that when we overcome all these difficulties that have hit us and inherited us until we get on our feet a little tighter and a better economy then I believe that we will also go to those categories. And absolutely at the local level, I said, "I want you to get one talent out." The local environment doesn't have the means to provide him with the conditions that he can be a top athlete, and that's why I said it's a HoO assignment. We don't have thousands of such talent sports, we have a small number, and for that number of talents, HOO should find opportunities and ways and means to finance them and provide them with all possible conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77341	Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77342	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you said someone was politicizing or trying to politicize with this report. Well, I really think that's how most of us here feel about it, and then we should figure out why and who this politicization comes from. I am the chairman of the Sports Committee and, as we have already heard several times, the committee unanimously with 11 votes to accept this report. On the board, he was the secretary of the HOO, and he reasoned for two hours and answered the questions of those of us who are members of the board. Among other things, committee member Marija Lugaric, who was a recent assistant to Minister Jovanovic, is also a member of the committee. Now why this saltto mortal, for what? It seems to me that the government of the Republic of Croatia, or the microlocation of the ministry, may not even be the ministry, but rather the account of Zeljko Jovanovic, who does not deserve to be the minister of education and sport, so his reckoning, with whom we should establish it and why we should determine it. The same man who teaches our children, he's a minister of education, he teaches our children once he's told that legendary sentence that doesn't suit him, which isn't decent, which is falling off the elemental decency, in the morning when you wake up look at the mirror and spit it out. That's what he told our kids to behave like that. As if even now without arguments he wanted to order read this report and don't look at the arguments, it doesn't matter what the board has accepted devoid of politicization. There were arguments on the board and it was unanimously accepted. So, there's one part of sports television, let's say by finance... The sport of women's basketball, I saw the other day a transfer of women's basketball. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's transmitted on national or commercial television, then that female basketball that doesn't have the means must pay 30 to 50 thousand kuna for reporting on... Is that one of the conditions for turning to Sports TV? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77343	Thanks a lot, buddy. And the answer to the replica of Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77344	Oh, here's my colleague Milinovic. You're going back and politicizing again. ... Let's put on a rock. [[Specially enabled.]] Yesterday I said this is not the report by Minister Jovanovic, this is the Croatian Olympic Committee report. So leave more on the side. We're talking about this in particular. I am not a member of the board and what I have said in my debate is my personal opinion, the opinion that comes from the field, because I have also contacted mine, the National Alliance and the Sports Union, and I also had a community of my sports associations the other night. So I asked their opinion as well. And let's not go back, let's move on so we all get better, especially for our young people, athletes and our Olympics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77345	And we continue the debate. My colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77346	Dear gentlemen, here I see that each side has its own informers on the Croatian Olympic Committee, Shuker has its own, the other side has its own, etc. Yes, this report is being discussed longer than the budget of the Republic of Croatia is being discussed. This report, if I'm not mistaken, weighs 131 million kuna, the state budget of 131 billion kuna, so that ratio is 11,000. I'm not familiar with the State Audit report, but as I heard from the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee Mr. Matesha that it was unconditional. The only thing I find controversial in the Croatian Olympic Committee is the relationship between our Olympics. As everything in our society is divided, so I guess these relations between the Olympics are divided. Divisions are, we all know that within individual parties, divisions are seen here in this House, in society as a whole, divided in our families, so it won't be that there's no division in sports or in this roof sports organization. Now, the question is the way it manifests itself. Someone will say that this way is too pronounced, the other will say that it is expected, the third will say that it is inappropriate. But let's just better make it happen now that we're not in this Olympic cycle, but in the Olympic year. We all agree. We've heard that the Olympic Committee's work is not only about the Olympics and the Olympics. So he cares about sports as a whole. In sports we all know there's everything, there's volunteerism, there's sublime amateurism, there's top professionalism, but there's money laundering. I didn't say he was on the Croatian Olympic Committee. It's clear that the crisis is deeper, and it's going to be less and less for sport, even though I claim that the best money invested might be right in sports itself. I read in this programme report that in 2012, there were 307 medals, 6 Olympic medals, at the world championship 81 medals, in the world cup of 50 medals, at the European championships of 115 medals, in the European cup of as much as 55. It is 307 medals of which 112 gold, 91 silver medals and 104 bronze medals. Women get 42.99% of those medals. On the side, which 63 is about revenue, it's about expenditure. The proceeds are 131.4 million kuna. We also heard that without lottery funding, the Olympic Committee couldn't have worked. Whether this change, where we now have higher rates of 30% compared to yesterday's 20% will also affect the greater fees of the Olympic Committee. I'd like that to be the case, but I doubt that's gonna happen any more than I think sport or sport is one of the battle segments and anti-dependence in this country. Maybe we should, not that maybe, probably spend more money on local alliances as well. It's not good in sports to do political divisions. Mr. Mateša, we have known each other a long time since he was at the head of the Croatian Olympic Committee of his former HDZ position and it should also be underlined. He survived 3 prime ministers, I wouldn't mind surviving "the fourth prime minister". Now, what's going on here is whether or not it's something else that controls only that sports television, I don't know, but as someone just called me out, "Politics out of sports, forever out of sports." How to set things up, but it's not possible to understand each other, so now how to set things up. Perhaps illiterate, not illiterate, but not written, pardon, limit the duration of those mandates. Right, we heard everything is done without compensation, whether to tie to results, but the best results in society are right in sport, etc. I'm not surprised they're moving from society to the stands, and that's why they're in the sport. That's what we're going to stay like, that's Croatia, that can't be the Croatian Olympic Committee different from who we are. Either way, the foundations of the Croatian Olympic Committee, we all agree here, are deep. Croatia is a young country but is a state as we have heard the envious sports results. The Croatian Olympic Committee is not responsible for the situation in sport, not only are these sports alliances responsible for the situation in sport, this House and the Government and the Resort Ministry are also responsible and as many have mentioned the local community itself. If the only problem at this point when we're talking about Croatian sports is sports television, then I dare say there's no problem. If there is a problem with the leadership of the Croatian Olympic Committee, then we dare say one serious political problem and it is no wonder that this is how it is discussed in this House. It is also clear that for sports television the guarantee should not be, it must not be the Croatian Olympic Committee, but it is also a fact. The president of the Croatian Olympic Committee is not appointed by the Parliament, not by the government, but by other bodies. Now, God forbid that opportunities on the Croatian Olympic Committee are affected by the government's lack of financial resources. I have not heard the information mentioned by the former finance minister and our representative Shuker that no amount of 40 million kuna has been delivered to the Croatian Olympic Committee for the first four months. I believe in this second cycle that 40 million kunas and other funds will be. The truth, however, is, in my opinion, as I follow it, next. The Olympic Club is divided. And I have the impression that they are the ones who are looking for change and then that their division is being re-enacted to this Parliament. They simply seek to emphasize themselves politically in one way or another, the help of politics itself. It is not good and indeed perhaps politics in sport and politics there is and in sport should be returned to sport from this Parliament, the Olympic Club to tell them, gentlemen, agree, do whatever you want but do not burden this House with your problems because then we will burden relations throughout the country. Sports television was certainly a good idea in these circumstances, there's no money, we see some great perspective. Maybe we should keep her until the end of this world football championship and see what the simple time will show. I'll say it one more time. Cheapest promiscation is a promotion with sport. I said yesterday, one medal costs a defacto 50,000 euros just this money, clearly costs a lot more but it's the cheapest and the most extensive. And what someone mentioned about the opening of the world football championship where Croatia will meet, on the other hand Brazil, where we will certainly win there is no doubt 3:1, bravo, and it is enough and 1:0 told me Blažević, 1:0 is enough, something is simply not price. And once again, I will mention great Istrian bishop Antun Bogetić's unhinged authority which, when he went to one mission after serving, after his 75 years, when he couldn't say which country, or when others didn't recognize him from which country he came, says suddenly after Croatia won third place at the World Cup the second day I woke up the entire island in the cubed uniforms. It is the power of sport and we must be as responsible as possible in order not to simply burden sports relations with Parliament and thus in society. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77347	In math, it's a square. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77348	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, I agree with almost everything you've said. But I took the word primarily because I think it's crucial what you said in your first sentences. It is quite bizarre, I have no other words I can use to discuss here the second day, but the second day on the Croatian Olympic Committee Report. And we ended the debate on the state budget the same day. And as you said correctly if we're looking at pure financial weight this is 1,000 times less money than it is there. There we could end it in one day, rarely with incredible ease and easily go over the key things that concern every citizen of this country, and now there is some miracle that the second day is already debated about this report. A report that was unanimously accepted by the ruling committee and now suddenly because the minister concluded that he did not like the president of the Olympic Committee and has certain objections to all this. Suddenly the matter is turned around, suddenly looking for some reasons why it would completely change its attitude in relation to the position of voting on the board, and now here it is for two days. Like I said, I don't have any other words down bizarrely, not to use any harder word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77349	Lady Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77350	We're not just discussing this report. To discuss only this report would be perhaps one of the smallest problems that we would be dealing with during these two days rather than over and this topic is actually discussing these divisions in a society that, in a word, burdens us, and therefore also these divisions that are in part in sport. Here, you see, this is where our colleague Veljko Kajtazi sits next to me. He was given a life-long suspension of his sports alliance because the man was in JNA, and he won one silver at the European championship, five times he was the champion of Croatia or Yugoslavia, which, at that time, did not matter, did not shoot at Croatia, did not harm Croatia because either he should have been in Remetec or in The Hague, not here in the Parliament, and no one told that man about a moral damage his sports alliance did to him. These are some divisions that should also be discussed, and I agree that in the future we should concentrate more on budgetary discussions than on the report on sports, regardless of how we all identify ourselves with the sports results of those best sons and the best daughters that Croatia has.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77351	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77352	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Cain, you mentioned opportunities in Croatian sport, parallels with Croatian politics, and I would like to exchange briefly with you about the situation in the sport that is for us in Croatia, for Croatians is certainly the most important football. How is it possible for an employee, or a football evo official, to be recently convicted in the first degree process, so by a first-degree sentence, but at the age of 4 of the ban on action, and then immediately thereafter, it seems to me that eight days later, without any comment, he will be elected head of the county football organization and, unfortunately, these days, we will again testify to his arrest. So the problem is much, much wider. How is it possible for a person who is sentenced by a first - degree verdict and who is prohibited from acting immediately after that from his colleagues, colleagues, or those with whom he shares obvious values, to be unanimously elected? We can also withdraw the parallel with many who were also here in last year's local elections and with the Stigm of the suspects and with the indictments, and some who were also first-degreed and convicted were elected, and many in the first round for the mayors, mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77353	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77354	Yeah, how is it possible for that sportsman to stay in the sport? I read, I follow, a few days ago some sportsmen from the Istria football club ended up in a prison of investigation. How is that possible? You gave the answer yourself, Mrs. Kosor, in the same way that it is possible and that some local or national politicians, however, are accused and who are determined not only by power but also by the power of judgment remain at the top of local or state policy. However, when we talk about this, we don't have much space for any arbitrary thinking, I would argue here that all those against whom the DORH will rise will currently freeze their mandates with their accusing proposals. Whether he does it or not, that's what we're talking about. And the second thing that could be, that the court in charge would reduce as much of these deadlines as possible so that these processes would not be run indefinitely and that no political match would be conducted. But just as I mentioned the Kajtazi case, I can now mention the case of Herak that someone would apologize to that man if he was released from any suspicion of committing any crime. Someone will say if we're giving the terms of office in the case of such indictments, no matter how the court takes action, maybe if the prosecution proposal was eventually rejected by the competent court the same fate should be borne by someone in the DORH and someone in the court and we should see who, as they say, who just crossed that black wool.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77355	Okay, thank you very much. It's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77356	But these relations should be regulated once already in sport and Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77357	Next individual debate, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77358	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Matesha with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be quite direct in my debate and we'll sort of take off the gloves because it's necessary. The problem is the debate in two days clear, this house has nothing to discuss, the government is not doing its job, we have no law, we have no suggestions on how to improve the lives of citizens, how to solve some problems and therefore we are discussing the report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. Better on that than on the attempt to change the Constitution which is the next item on the agenda because this same Constitution will not change clearly in this mandate and no one has the courage to say it. I am also discussing the SDP's autonomousness of an association, the Croatian sports roof association on the Croatian Olympic Committee and that I would understand it for the first time, but we testify that in two years we have a second attempt to strike at the autonomy of sports associations. I remind you, for the first time, the Croatian Football Federation. I'm not going to explain what was going on there, but we've all witnessed not beautiful scenes and irresponsible behavior of leading people who should have taken care of it especially from the government. And why is that coming? Why are they giving you a hard time? Because our colleagues on the left, i.e. Here in the House with our right always doubting something. It's always a suspect trigger. Whatever they look at, they suspect. When they look at a man, they look at the report, they question a contract that has inherited doubt. There's always some suspicion, and there's always something to end up in the organs of repression. In both cases, the main centurifier is Minister Jovanovic, who I don't know now whether he understands problems or pretends not to understand, because if this is another, then it's abuse. He doesn't understand the problems or the way the sport works. And instead of getting into it like a centafort, he gets naked every time he gets hit by an auto goal. And his argument is known, and I'm going to mention it here, he said not the argument of force, but the force of argument. And what are we witnessing here for two days? At every debate, Mr. Matesha comes out and pours force of argument. You're threatening him on that side with your argument of force. You have a majority and you want to give a negative opinion and no one is defending you. It's legitimate, and you don't want to understand at all what I'm telling you, and it's all justified, all in count, everything in process. Specifies the rulebook, lists everything you need. It is an obvious intention not to understand what is very clear. And it is even sadder that he attacked the minister because these associations and the Football Alliance and the Croatian Olympic Committee he did not participate in their creation, not part of them, he was not. I'd understand if it was in there, but it was nothing. They were born long before he was in politics. He's attacked two years of a number of sportsmen, not one he hasn't had an eye on. It is not the job of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to give us such beautiful words, a vocabulary that is unworthy of the functions he behaves and damages sport. I'll remind you of several of his attacks. First he attacked Mr. Vrdoljak to sell it, make sure he sold the Mediterranean Games in Rijeka for his chair. The man reacted and said I became a member of the International Olympic Committee before the Mediterranean Games were even discussed. Obviously it means false, but it doesn't matter to keep repeating it. Second, he attacked the International Olympic Committee. Says they sell chairs there. So is it worthy of one minister of science and education that they sell chairs among themselves there? And then when the reaction came, it was underline the tail and back off. Lately, an attack on FIFA and UEFA. He attacks Platini and muds him so they don't understand him, that they don't understand his efforts to create some sort of order in a place where he's not in charge at all. And what happened? Recently, we've got a double tail again, and I'm pulling back because they didn't understand me. He doesn't realize that he doesn't understand the problem and the limit he can go to. He attacked the autonomy of some alliances, their acts don't understand what it means when there's something written there. And now he's attacking who? He's attacking the Croatian Olympic Committee. It says some kind of sports inspection. So let's remember how a sports inspection was created. The first contest is down. What did he fall for? He fell because his assistant didn't know he wasn't supposed to be on that board picking out a sports inspection, so they went to another contest. And now that sports inspection is doing something. All right, it's working. I get it. It's her job. He's got a salary, he's working. Who's in that sports inspection? I don't know. But we can see that it's becoming a strong argument for you, which is why something should not be accepted. And what does the report say? That's always what happened. We need to get an amenation, we need to say that, that's over, so let's see what's going on out there. Full members of 38 sports associations of Olympic sports, 33 sports alliances of Neolimpic sports, 21 sports associations and alliances of the county and city of Zagreb, Croatian Olympic club. Associated members are 9 associations and institutions from sports and 8 sports associations, and two temporary members. The Olympic Games qualified 108 athletes, won six medals, the greatest success of Croatian sports. Of the total 307 medals won, gold 112, silver 91, bronze 104. I don't want these posters from four to eight places. 44 women and 64 men participated in the Olympic Games in London. The island's games are mentioned as another value where Croatia performs together with other countries that have an island, which also have islands where one silver medal was won. In professional services employed 58 workers, 39 women, 19 men. Income in 2012 131 million 440 thousand kuna. The revenues of the state budget realised in the amount of 114 million 973 thousand kuna and in the total part of the realised revenues account for 87.47%. Regular incomes of 5 million and gambling revenues of 109 million. That's from the state. Own income realised in the amount of 11 million 457 thousand kuna. Income from the Olympic solidarity realised in the amount of 4 million 878 thousand kuna. No one hid a lip. He's separated ways of collecting income. They write the credit numbers that were raised for Sports Television, so we have a first loan deadline of 4 years, due to the last tranche on 31.8.2016 at an interest rate of 6% per year. The second million and 220 thousand euros will reach 2022. The third loan in 2017 will reach 2 years of start, 4 return 10 million kuna. Has anyone hidden any information that's controversial? You've become a doorman who thinks something's going to work in the next seven years. And you immediately condemned the project to failure. And that's your reason not to accept the report. Not to accept these medals, not to accept the activities that have been carried out, not to accept the activities of the alliance, not to accept what is beautifully explained and written. That's a reason for you. And what will be the benefit of not accepting? What's gonna happen? We're here kind of over the assembly of the HoO Assembly if I understand that very well. We are discussing a report for which it is only relevant is the HoO Assembly that has its own bodies. Who needs that cap I'd say it or some attitude here I am a priori against because I don't like it in the year 2022, predicting your loss. And what we have in public enterprises, we heard today. The same kind of project that is not the creation of the program, but the transmission of EVO TV, the loss in millions of kunas. And you adopt the 2012 HACOM report where it says that you lost, and then you raised your hand without a problem, and you saw that the income was 3.5 million kuna. And no one questioned that. When we warned that it was not good, but we too raised our hand for that report if you remember, because we believe that if someone made such a business decision some responsibility and we will not say in advance whether that success on the market of 450 million kunas where they are spinning means money from the revenues of television whether it will be successful or not. And you've already condemned the Priors in advance, and that's the only reason why you're not willing to accept this report. I think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77359	Thank you. We're moving on to a replica that's eight. First, the esteemed Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your report, you spoke of everything that is good in our country and what is done well, whether through sport or economy is becoming suspicious, you have pointed out several times and become suspicious. I would certainly agree with that. Unfortunately, we've been put in a situation like this. But speaking of these things, I've been surfing the Internet a little bit and I've seen the German Olympic Committee and what it's actually doing and how the Germans are treating the Olympic Committee, from Friedrich McLenburg to today's president Thomas Bach one honorable function and all of what actually and the way the Germans look at this Olympic Committee. So you mentioned certain actions taken by the HoO and mentioned the Games of the Island. You may have forgotten to mention the Croatian World Youth Games, which will take place this year from 21st to 26th of July in the Republic of Croatia and the main sponsor and organizer is actually the HOO. And I am glad that the co-sponsor and the Croatian Parliament, that is, our President, Mr. Josip Leko. This is certainly good because it is an amateur sports competition that brings together Croatians and Croats from 37 countries around the world, and it serves in fact to cultivate Croatian identity, return to country as well as future economic investments. I'm particularly apostropheic because that's what we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about. In the end, I want to say that those things that are good should be nurtured, we should not be afraid of it, and we should provide maximum support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77361	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77362	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague, Babic. You have specifically singled out the World Youth Games, they began as a volunteer project of a group of enthusiasts that has grown the borders of Croatia where many famous athletes, coaches, clubs, and today, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, are certainly gathering the largest number of young people in some organised form of sport. I mentioned it, the Games of the Island, because here it says that 16 were held in Sardinia from 24th to 26.05.2012, 19 Korčulan athletes performed in 3 sports, 8 swimmers, 8 athletes and 3 tennis players and one silver medal was won in the jump. There were 1,000 athletes from 12 islands, representatives of 8 countries. And it's a Croatian specificity that we can use and it's beautifully written here. But that's not what gentlemen on the other side are adopting. These are the facts that have passed. I really don't understand why we don't want to adopt the situation at the end of 2012 and say it's over and we accept it? Are we going to change our 2012 negative attitude towards the report? We won't. But they're persistent. Why? Because they're not targeted by the report, they're not targeted by some sports television, they're targeted by the chair. And they see her and they want her and that's why they're willing to make such a turn to vote all unanimously on the board, and then when the government says no, then they're all ready to say no. There's no credibility here. And the worst part is when a politician in public appearances has no credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77363	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77364	Thank you very much. The fellow Boric about that credibility you said in the last sentence, and you also spoke best in his speech tells here a statement by one of his colleagues that the report so-called. Shakespeare's National Anti-Corruption Council will not be accepted. That was Thursday, last week. On Friday, all those same MPs raised their hands for the report, except for that colleague. That's very interesting. So this is about how they say the wind is blowing, right? So, we can make our views clear, and you said Mr. Jovanovic who hit criticism from the International Olympic Committee and then attack on the FIFA and UEFA, and then the attack on Dinamo that's being carried out in parallel with the attack on the HoO, then the attack on HNS, then the attack on HBOR, so it's simply trying to destabilise a lot of what I'd say bears a Croatian name. As a result, you well recognized the incompetence and ignorance of a doctor as a minister of sports among other things. So, ignorance of matter and not only ignorance but also badness, so I would say malignancy one, on the line of political enmity, and in politics we should not be the enemy, we can be rivals, we can be partners but enmity in this way, that this is how we discuss the 2012 report and nothing we can do about it. We can also adopt a negative opinion, as colleagues from the SDP do, but it will not change anything and will not even affect the composition of the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77365	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77366	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I agree with you, and I therefore appeal to the conscience of the parliamentary deputies not to do what they announced because there was already one procedure, what you said, all were in the debate when the work of the National Council on Combating Corruption was being debated. We won't do that. And the other day they voted, and that's fine. They figured it out, maybe 24 hours of change. Speaking of influences, either on FIFA or UEFA, here's what it says in the letter that brought back the minister. First and foremost, we would like to remind you that FIFA and UEFA members must conduct their affairs independently and without any influence from any third party and as clearly prescribed in Articles 13 and 17. The term of office of the FIFA as well as Article 7. UEFA Statute. In particular, we noticed that a solution to the sports inspection of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports could directly affect key issues such as the Statute of the Croatian Football Federation, competition and the mandate of elected officials. Only after it has been returned to the ministry is the reaction of the assistant who says: We do not want to be graves of the Croatian football team or Croatian clubs. On the eve of the world championship where our team will play with Brazil at the opening, that's the last thing we want. The government of the Republic of Croatia is raising its hands from the CNS. And then this report that same minister calls makeup or makeup to the public. That's what he told you as leaders, and unfortunately in that circle, we're moving, the sports inspection becomes the biggest body to be arbitrated without a goal, or to know where it's going and there's talk of depletion of the swamp, and now we don't know what happened. And in the end only those who warn you that you have questioned the performance of the team at all then realize that you're doing something you don't need to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77367	Next replica, Honorable Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Boric, you've actually detected the problem correctly, so I think it's important to mention it again. It's not about, of course, the 2012 report. For a year, this non-transparentity is not the case, all figures are very clear, etc. We all know what this is about. This is about the attack of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports who attacks during his two years of office all and everyone and now he has found another goal that should be attacked and then, despite the fact that I am going to say it again, the Assembly Committee unanimously accepted the 2012 Olympic Committee's report once again, however, it should now be challenged. Of course, there is no one here, nor the minister, nor his deputy or anyone from the ministry who actually attacks this report, but the parliamentary deputies were tasked to challenge it now against why some of them voted at the board's session. I must once again say that it is not enough to constantly mention one expression of intransparency although all the arguments on the other side are that it can then justify the rejection of something that was accepted a short time ago. This certainly leads to the unbelief of those who advocate it, and it certainly goes to the harm of those who do it now. I only hope that they are aware of it because Croatian citizens are very aware of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77369	Thank you. The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77370	Comrade Reiner, I fully accept what you've said. In fact, here it is trying, I hope it will be unsuccessful and that there will be reason on the other hand to use one project, which is sports television, which is also explained in detail in everything, from their roles through credits that have been raised to their vision in the future and it is challenging because it is returning there, so they are returning what will be 2020, and what does it say here? That sports television wants to complete its design as national sports television, be the television of national alliances in promotion and in monitoring all their competitions, club, individual and tournament competitions. The idea of a common single programme scheme of HRT and sports television will be affirmed at these points. It will be available on all platforms of all operators and all cable operators in the Republic of Croatia. For the security of the return of approved and used loans, it is the Croatian Olympic Committee, which was the sole founder of the HOTV, to decide on the issue of guarantees under each approved loan guaranteeing the orderly repayment of funds from the corresponding interest and other costs. In the run-up of cable TV on the Croatian media market, international sports content has been saturated while on the mentioned platforms Croatian sport is almost unrepresented and that is true. What can we look at at sports club and sports arena? you can play one player in Chelsea or in Real, not Croatian athletes in general. You can't watch sports Croatian clubs there, except for the First Max TV League. Very rarely the basketball league game that ended now I think... and everyone else is looking elsewhere. And sports television made it possible for those who don't have it to watch it in the replay, at least look at some first Max TV league game later because that's what television is for. And what we heard, HRT doesn't want to co-operate with Sports TV. Why? Because public service is under party control and does not want to obviously deal with it, but they have obvious reasons, but it may change in some future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77371	Its replica will now be presented by the respected Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, I have listened very carefully to your debate. A big part of your debate you were talking about arguments. Well, your first sentence in the debate has been completely unargumented, which is that today's two-day debate is the SDP's autonomousness of a modest Association of Croatian Sports. It's simply not true, and it's also not true that the SDP suspects everything it looks at, it's not true that we have the only argument of force either. You said here that Mr. Mateo gave the whole force of arguments, and that we were attacking without having one single argument and that the only argument we have is the argument of force. I'm in my debate on behalf of the club yesterday, and here on several occasions we've also presented a whole series of arguments and it's not the only argument Sports TV, I'll do it again, I'll repeat here. So, in the opinion of the Government, which apparently comes to the conclusion that you have not read at all the government's objections to this report, which is decisions relating to the business of sports television, the evaluation criteria of the National Sports Alliance programme, the decision-making of sports television, the way and the legality of lending guarantees, etc., etc., but also the Olympic Academy, which is persistently placed under the radar because in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Olympic Academy has issued illegal certificates, I am now asking myself here a question, what is with these people who have illegal certificates? What's the difference between them and, say, the compiler, are those testimonies worth it or aren't they worth it? What's going to happen to that? Also, the government and we point only to irregularities, intransparency and illegal spending, and that's our only goal, and you mentioned the chairs, that our only goal is someone's chair, which is also not true, but I understand that your position since you know very well about hunting for a chair, I would ask you a question only in whose chair are you sitting in this House?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77373	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77374	Yeah, I mean, I'm sitting in a council chair, this is Parliament property, whose seat is it supposed to be sitting in? Whose place are you sitting in? That's SDP's chair or what? I mean, what kind of debates are these, anyway? You say you listened carefully to my argument and made a mistake. You didn't hear right, I said why are we arguing for two days? Because it came at the wrong time, you didn't hear right. At the wrong time, we have nothing to discuss, the government does not create laws, does not create what can help Croatian citizens, but is involved in games. I said today, "Crowd and Game," no more than a game without a circle. That's it, these Croatian citizens have nothing. And you have to understand that. I'm convinced by Mr. Matesha's argument that he's stronger in this than you are, here. Your arguments are relative to his arguments for me completely minor. And the athlete and the assembly accepted it, and it's 2012 and it's been over, and I don't know which argument after 2 years you can take out that it's worth it to you. I think it's completely wrong, and it's known that the chair program is actually the most important SDP program. And it's been going on for two years, it's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. So here and here. And we don't have to get wet here, I say, that's why I said, we take off our gloves and talk openly. Is this going to help the Olympic club, the division, is it going to be an insult, is it going to be some kind of pressure-maker? It will show time, but I believe in reason, in the wisdom of those people who created this board, they've been leading it for decades, so I'm going to say, for decades and no one on the side can break it, i.e. endangering their autonomy. Well, no unsuccessful policy, and we have to be clear and stop there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77375	A new replica, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77376	Mr. Vice President. So I would really like to refer to this beginning of your debate, you immediately said that this debate has been going on for two days because the Maltene government is not able to pass new laws that we would discuss, so perhaps we MPs are also absolutely unable to do some things well, and that is why it is, so, for a long time. Well, I don't agree with that. The 27 of us, as many as are reported here, we could have done it yesterday. There were a lot more reports in the debates before, and once upon a time we were able to do it. Why is it taking so long? So really what's said, because of the really huge politics that we've now put into the report of this debate and that someone now turns on after these debates, then they'd hear that in that part of these two years everything's broken down in sport, and they must have been flowering roses and it was the most beautiful thing in the world. Then the second one would realize that someone is guilty of it, and then it's the minister who because he wants to make order in sports, he's guilty, and a little bit when we watch, wherever we scratch the sport, many affairs and these court proceedings are seen to be done. And the third thing that I think is the dumbest thing, which is that I guess the world revolves around television, sports television, that's the most important thing in this debate. I mean, it's a disaster. Guys, we're beating up empty straw here and let's be concrete in these discussions... then it won't take that long and we'll have concrete conclusions on this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77377	Reply Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77378	Thank you very much, fellow Skuric. I agree that you may be beating empty straw on that side, but we're trying to answer the arguments, you understand. Because one thing is your story of politics, so we're not in charge of it. Politics is Mr. Skuric when on the board members of the ruling coalition who are part of that committee vote for the report, and then in the debate they turn their attitude after the government's opinion and say that nothing is wrong with it, it is politics, not only that, unrealty and even a dose of hypocrisy in all of this. And that's how we need to talk, let's talk openly, and it'll be easier for all of us. Because if we're really going to stand on those arguments that you're talking about, then this has to go away. There are no hidden intentions here, nothing is hidden, everything is written. In 2012, two years ago, and we know what will happen if we don't adopt it, and even what the Parliament has resorted to, we won't, we won't do it, we're against it. And what's wrong with that? So you accepted the DORH report and replaced Mladen Bajic, and you won't accept this and Mr. Mateša will stay there. Do you see logically what is happening to you? So you give yourselves a little conscience, you turn out to be unworthy. Am I telling the truth? Yeah, and good and that's possible. That's what I'm talking about, be in a logical sequence of some kind. And now you will not accept it, and Mr. Matesha will continue to do so because he has support in the congregation of those to whom he should have, and we will still be here next year in 2013 to debate. But the problem is that so far we have completed all discussions on this report in an hour for 2011, 2010, 2009, etc. and for 2012 at once two days, so that's a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77379	Branko Vuksic will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77380	Dear counterpart Boris, I just heard the minister wants to make a line in sports, and you talked about it. I believe he wanted to make order in sports but he just wanted to make order in sports where he thought. So he broke his teeth first at Mamic tried to go personally, not to make order, if he wanted to make order then they would change the Sports Act, then we would make it impossible for high-profit clubs to be non-profit organisations, no knowledge, no strength. You said Platini didn't understand Jovanovic, I don't understand him either, and in a similar language we speak. I don't understand Jovanovic, and he's not understood by many educators teachers, teachers, increasingly fewer people understand Mr Jovanovic. And of course that letter you quoted doesn't understand the world. Crime in sports certainly exists but not only in Croatia, everywhere. Sports is a highly profitable activity and where there's money there's crime all over the country. And sport is a lucrative business, but we have this lucrative business in Croatia very little. What should we do? We should do amateur sports, we should deal with how we direct our children into sports and many other things. So, if Mr. Jovanovic wanted to make order in sports, he would start from the ground up not from the roof. He overestimated his options, overestimated his strength and overestimated the power of politics. Sometimes business is far above the policy of what SDPs, cowards know well because they would not be conducted from different cellars, vineyards, etc. how he's gonna make moves in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77381	In reply Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77382	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I sign everything you said, but I'll add it. We at HDZ do not care too much about what Mr Jovanovic says except in the part where he starts insulting us unfoundedly, so we react because we do not think it is appropriate for a minister of science, education and sports to use such a dictionary. In one democratic state, I think we should choose the words after all. We saw in the story of Jovanovic and his conflict with everyone that he was a failure. I will remind you of the changes to the Sport Act when it divided top athletes conquerors of gold Olympic, world medals on those who can and cannot win for the same kind of medal. Well, Olympic sports can, not Olympic sports can't get a fee. It's his first influence on sports. He said he'd make it right, he'd bring a national strategy. That document, unfortunately, isn't there, isn't it? So he's a failure he's still a failure. And now we should, when he's pointing his finger, say, at the hoo there's something wrong, I've seen that there's no good. We're going to take it down somehow because it's the introduction of order. Who says that through this introduction order doesn't introduce a mess into that space that's... you understand so he's not always right. Remember that he lost one court dispute in some words that were inappropriate in public space. What does he need? And I won't talk about reactions when he was at a competition in Belgrade as a minister of education, which he shouldn't have done, but he reacted very strongly at another stadium, etc. So credibility is acquired. He's mixed up some of his obligations. I'll remember you and the fight against corruption, he was the champion of fighting corruption but in someone else's backyard. The other day I'm looking at a reporter passing by asking him something about this case in SDP, and he's silent, nothing, no attitude. So it's not as credible as this report story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77383	The Republic is represented by Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have a feeling that you, regardless of the subject, are always against us. Here you are surprised that we have been discussing the HoO and sports in general for two days. Well, we shouldn't be surprised, my God. I think in this discussion in two days, you've replicated more than once, and you've spoken more than once. We just said what we think is not right in Croatian sport and in HoO. I talked to him yesterday, and that's what I said to the athletes with the Olympics yesterday, and they're unhappy. They don't say that there's nothing wrong with the HoO, not at all, I think there's a lot of good things, but what they resented was primarily resented by the academy, public procurement and sports television, and that's what we're just talking about. I don't know what we're against here. You're saying we suspect. So these two years, you've been doubting everything we've suggested, and everything we've discussed, you've doubted everything, and you've doubted all our good intentions, everything we've discussed. I don't think that's right. I am to discuss and for two days whether we all understand each other, the Croats are like that, everyone understands sports and we can talk about everything and everything. In sports today in Croatia as much as I have the information there are over 5,000 sports associations, 5,000. It has 1500 football clubs and we have over 150 thousand registered athletes, which is very, very much, football players and 300 thousand athletes. Of course we're all discussing it and people are probably listening to us. But what I'd like to say is that maybe even the purest part of the sport is that sport that's being funded in local self-government units, and that's not small money, 1.2 billion kunas from local self-government units. And there's no irregularities and there's no problem because we leaders and those who are there control them. Here I think that's the important thing to mention, and these 140 million kuna on the Croatian Olympic Committee is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77385	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77386	Thank you very much. Comrade Prelec, I don't know if it feels mutual, but I have a feeling that you're always the opposite of us, you understand? Whatever we say is never good. And these guys in the middle are always on your side, too. And now they're the legality of politics, I guess they are. And as for activity, you're on this agenda item unusually active. If you were this active in the work when we talked about the state budget, then the first rebalancing, we would have a much better budget, I guarantee because you would certainly warn the Minister of Finance where he's wrong. Unsatisfactory inside the sport have bodies where their dissatisfaction should be resolved. If they are dissatisfied within the Croatian Olympic Committee, they must create the majority of some kind to change relations. In the football alliance, they have to create a majority to change relationships. Well, I guess some 1, 3 or 20 dissatisfied aren't going to bring down 100 satisfied. It's not a system of democracy. I can be dissatisfied and prove it. But what he writes, says Mr. Matesha doesn't believe it's not true. Our doubts come true unlike yours because you're on the wrong track. When we say you'll lose your GDP, you say it will grow, and it will fall. It means we doubted it with justice. You'll have less income, you have, we're right. And you need to start listening to that. When we suspect you listen to us and change your attitude because you won't do anything, vote for this report, everyone will feel better and you'll feel better because you'll be positive, and you won't change anything with a negative attitude, believe me. And if something was what you're saying, there are those who need to deal with it, don't do it here. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77387	The last replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, can you tell me if you know what we're going to vote on tomorrow? Is it about the conclusion of the parent board or of some opinion of the Croatian government? Because here we have a temporal opposite of the same people thinking differently for a few days. But the biggest tragedy is that those who swear so much to democracy do not recognize the results of democracy. Well, it wasn't those who came to the Croatian Olympic Committee that came to some decree there were thousands and thousands of election congregations to choose for something, for some body, and then that body chose its own people again, and then there was some national summit, and then these people came to the Olympic Committee Assembly, and they made certain decisions, among other things, to choose their own leadership. And what's very important, and what's not to say here, is that the Olympic Committee has always made sure that both small and large sports are equally represented, that in making decisions, especially financial ones, there is no majorization, that they eat everything. However, those who have managed to fight with the academic community in 2 years, because the academic community is no longer some moral and scientific authority in the Republic of Croatia, because they should have been thrown into the mud and shown no value. So then came the Catholic Church, because our bishops were not educated enough to understand some things, and afterwards came the Croatian Football Federation. Now look, when the Croatian Football Federation came and some of the outside concluded that someone was a little out of line they got pucks. Well, I guess if someone realizes they're a little out of line with the Croatian Olympic Committee, we'll get back in the pack. We'll simply be visited by someone if we enter a certain association that we've accepted the rules of conduct in that association. And if these gentlemen didn't understand, the best example was the Lex Perkovic Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77389	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77390	One more sentence, please. We did not want to follow the basic rules that apply in the European Community, so we were also given fingers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77391	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77392	Comrade Shuker, I repeat, you're asking me what we're voting on tomorrow, whether or not the board's conclusion, is it about the government's conclusion? I'd like to vote on the board's conclusion and accept it because we'd like to send a good message. If we're going to vote on the government's conclusion then even this House doesn't make much sense, the money has said its own, please vote for the verticals and say goodbye. You were talking about the way and functioning of the HoO, but also the attack of the minister on the academic community, on the Church, etc. He doesn't hesitate to hit on autonomy, say the university, don't hesitate, because he says I'm introducing order, okay. But he also retired after that. Who is in the Olympic Committee, all writes well, 38 sports associations of Olympic sports, 33 neo-Olympics, 21 sports associations and alliances of Zagreb County and Croatian Olympic Club, members of 9 associations, institutions from sports, 8 sports associations and 2 temporary members. The institution grew from its draft every year. New sports also appear, new alliances appear, and no one's door is closed, but for all there are criteria, criteria. And here it writes nicely, for the first time Croatia is presented in 5 sports games in London: fencing, judo, remote swimming, as well as female handball and women basketball team. And we're contesting it. We're contesting it. In a negative opinion, we say they weren't there. They weren't there. We didn't win 307 medals. The SDP may think we've won them more or less. And we're looking for bad or no arguments. I therefore appeal to the conscience of the ruling to do what we have done with the report on the work of the National Council for Combating Corruption, not to respect their opinions from the debate and to show maturity and to leave this institution to go its own way and to do good for Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77393	The word is now received by the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Zlatko Mateša.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77394	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, apologizing to you and to all MPs who are here. Dear Representative Djujic, for the second time, I apologize, for the second time I read to you in response to your presentation by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of 1 April 2014. The Croatian Olympic Academy conducted 43 educational programmes for 29 sports involving 1149 students from 2008 to 2014. On the basis of this letter and on the initiative of the Croatian Olympic Academy since 27 March 2014, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports attended by representatives of the Department of Sports, Education and Education, the independent sector for inspection work, the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults and the Croatian Olympic Academy. The meeting concluded that the ASOO recommendation, which is the Agency for the Harmonisation of the Educational Programmes of the Croatian Olympic Academy, does not mean that adult education institutions do not and cannot conclude that public documents issued after 2008 and issued by the basis of a solution of the competent ministry are not valid. And now it's really hard, I hope I don't have to read it the third time. As far as public procurement at the academy is concerned. Yeah, there's been a gap in the supply of some office furniture. But what's more important than that is that it was discovered by our internal audit and that the leader man is no longer the head man. And I think it's positive, not negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77395	Now follow the replica of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Matesha, don't get me wrong. In the meantime, I made a little effort, so I came up with this memo that you just quoted to me, and I have it right here in front of me. He was sent by the Ministry of Sports to the City of Zagreb, the Zagreb Bowling Alliance and the Zagreb Judo Alliance, so it is not addressed to you as the Croatian Olympic Committee but it has nothing to do with it. I will now secondly quote to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this report of yours. In conclusion: "The government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the independent sector for the inspection supervision of the ministry, the educational inspection, carried out inspection inspections in the Croatian Olympic Academy on which the inspection report was drawn up and a solution was adopted since 15 March 2013. It should also be noted that in December 2011. The Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education also conducted professional supervision in the Croatian Olympic Academy. That supervision indicates in an unlawful manner the issuing of public documents, and the Committee for Professional Control has concluded that the institution only maintains data on the establishment, does not keep records of programmes, participants and workers of the institution and that the data is not supplied to the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. During expert supervision, it was established that that institution issued public documents contrary to the legal rules, that it did not organise teaching or carry out any knowledge checks and that the institution of education programmes carried out in rooms for which there is no valid solution.". I'm quoting it to you this second time, I hope I don't need a third. This is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we have all parliamentary representatives on this report signed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanovic and I have no reason not to believe it. And when I criticise it, no, I'm not criticizing it now, and I'm glad you said it yourself, it's good that someone's been removed, there's been some irregularities, these people are being punished, you're undermining certain moves and it's okay, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77397	The replica matches the esteemed Zlatko Mateša, please. You can go from where you respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77398	For the sake of understanding other MPs and MPs. The point is, therefore, that what I read was from April 1st this year, the government's opinion had been formed much earlier, as the honourable representative said. Second. You know what the fight was about, what was the problem with these educational programs? Which was missing 7 hours of work protection and therefore during those 7 hours of work protection and the history of olympics for 2 hours. So, it's for fitness coach is terribly important that it, had no protection at work because of the sockets and these counters etc.. So here we are, but we've also corrected that, and I hope that now, that coaches can continue to be trained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77399	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the distinguished Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77400	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues. So as we've heard minors today and yesterday about a lot of things and about Lex Perkovic and about agriculture and about the economy and about unemployment and about the budget and at least about sports, and yet let me give back a little bit of what someone who listens knows what we're even discussing. So here I would like to point out that when we talk about the Croatian Olympic Committee, then we are talking about the highest NGO national sports association. The association then joins sports alliances, communities and other associations whose work is of importance for the development of sports and Olympic movement in the Republic of Croatia and when we read it, the thread that is being implemented again highlights the sport. And that's a sports term, except for the official one. Most often we can say that it means every game and fun. Well, it's supposed to be fun, it's supposed to be a game, and we've made it unfortunately something else, and we need to get back on the ground. When we talk about sports, we must point out that it is very important for development and health, and in the pedagogical part of sport teaches us teamwork, can draw you away from bad habits, shows you how to deal with victory, and how to learn how to appreciate what we have and finally it teaches us how to become and be better people. That should be an accent. On the basis of these definitions and highlighted values, sport would be expected to have a much larger dimension and comprehensiveness and presence in our society, but let's see what the real facts are. Well above all, that sport has not been treated in our society properly, although even in the Law of Sports it is said that sport is of particular social importance,... what I said, and it is not now that part that has not been defined these years, two years, it has already been a very, very long time. And when we talk about sports in general then, in all our activities and discussions, we talk mostly about professional sports and a little bit of neglect and amateur sport, recreational sports, school sports, and what is a person with disabilities and we always talk about big and small sports, and we should talk about sports where we are successful and where we are unsuccessful. And also when we talk about sports, we point out that we still don't have a National Sports Development Strategy, which is important. How else can we talk too much or plan anything and create some kind of long-term vision without it? It's a problem and, of course, it's always a story spin, and it's all there is to it that there's never enough money for sport, that there's bad legal solutions, that there's no separation from the state level, regional, local, that there's no sponsor, there's no understanding. That's an introduction. What I would especially like to stress as mayor of the town of Lepoglava in Varazdin County, that we must make sure that all these top athletes started from the local administration. The local administration is a foundation, a pool of sports. The ultimate sport depends on whether he was recognized by an aunt in kindergarten as having some talent, depending on whether he was recognized by a teacher, a high or elementary school teacher, and also depends on whether we mayors provided above all the conditions for dealing with that sport. I can tell the mayor of the city where we stand out 7% for sports, where we have three elementary schools, all three primary schools we've built two-part, three-part school halls. They are in one school shift such that in the second shift they can serve for recreational and amateur sport, that I end a project now this year where all local committees, settlements have their own underfooted playgrounds, where we really worry that we have professional training coaches, that we also have health checks and that's this 7% for the part, and for these capital investments it's a special investment that doesn't get into it. So you have to and you can. And also, the Croatian Olympic Committee helps through a programme to encourage local sport with an active community programme for such activities. We can really say because, as a city, we are programme-oriented, project-oriented, because we finance only programmes and projects not only for some desire and will to work, that we have already 16 European Union projects that we have realised at the city level, we have received from these projects from the Croatian Olympic Committee of Resources where we bought a van vehicle, we have received funds to buy a tractor for the bone and maintain our sports fields, we have received funds for a big scoreboard and of course we have failed the funds, we are looking for more... to achieve that field with artificial grass within the Olympic board for also small football. I can really say that my community of sports associations can do programs, they can do projects, and with the help of all the structures and expertise of the town of Lepoglava. What's most important, all the difference that needs to be made in relation to the end of the program has been secured by the town of Lepoglava. There should be more and there may be one criticism of these 4 million kunas, that is 3.3% of the total funds, and the total funds are very miserable for work, which we all have to admit is too little. And then he tells me that, 8% is for wages, 4 million 6 means 4.3% for us 545 towns and municipalities in Croatia too little and we have to take care of it as much as possible, but it has to be very argumentative. What I can specifically say in that second part, means an emphasis on local sport, but what to be concrete is that all these activities of sport, development can be defined by me and what we have experience, through sports camps. So not only did I say athletes develop from kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, but they upgrades are then sports camps where under one controlled environment with all the things that they are can create top-notch sports. But again, I also said at the beginning that we are too much of a sport, but we must see that the recreational amateur sport has its own value. There is this project I would like to mention that is a network of sports camps and... European Union funds and there is a good opportunity or what you said from experience in Slovenia. Lepoglava, Varazdin County, we are bordering Slovenia, I have really passed all these cities that have implemented these European Union projects and based on this experience we are working on in Lepoglav one project, a project... within the framework of a fun football school with the Danish government in the beginning where we want to make it a bouncy center. We have everything, 10 acres of land owned by the town of Lepoglava, we financed an idea project until the main project we funded, almost a million kunas invested in where we can really offer to be a center for the development of works, meaning sports amateurism, then female football that is our most important, disabled. Leprechaun is also known for some other things, and that those people who are in prisons can best socialize and adapt to others through sports. It's a complex one. Unfortunately, we had no understanding of the especially Football Alliance where it's not a sport, it's not professionalism, where then this project cannot be defined further. This should also propose the production of catalogues of existing sports centres by county with an expert assessment of the situation and, of course, define criteria, make assessment of cost-effectiveness and adaptation of them. It also proposes a statement of the municipalities and cities of interest and willingness to co-finance such projects. And of course ask the Croatian Olympic Committee as the crown sports organisation to play an active role in organising projects and coordination between alliances, and to forward the elaborate idea to the competent ministries. If I have information that you have one person in charge of the European Union alone, it is far too little. We don't expect them to do projects. That's what we need at the local level and with development agencies at the county level. But I need that coordination. We would all like everything in Croatia, but we need to know exactly where we need to, in what way, which arguments. Because we really need to do this before we use the European Union funds. I have experience, we have worse experience in Varazdin County. Our development agencies know that. And indeed what I said, an example of the European Union, is shown, and I would specifically mention this chapter on page 22 of the EU Programmes, which is more sport than the sport itself, which is that sport creates a very important additional value, an additional value in the economic sector, an additional value as a labour intensive industry that promotes growth can foster convergence among EU members and can promote growth and specialisation. All that I have listed, and I may have expected more in this report, because each report is a set of activities that say what is today based on what has been the previous few periods. But what's important is we have to have goals, and what do we conclude from doing better? And in order to be better in that section and concrete examples, I must say that, apart from here's the director that Mr. Chop as chief secretary in an interview in the regional weekly has made a very good point of view that agrees with everyone. And you'd think this might be about the report, rather than the papers. Why? Because I agree that we have a lot of gray zones around the funding that we could use, online betting. We don't control it. How much money can be left on the Olympic Committee. And what I agree is that local administrations can single out three percent of the singles, at least three percent for a sport where they won't depend on local sheriffs to call us if anyone wants or doesn't want us in that part. That's what I'd expect in the future report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77401	We'll hear two replicas. First Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77402	Thank you very much. My colleague Škurić, you were talking about amateur sports, about the distribution of funds, so here's just an example that's a little bit in the eye but I hope Mr. Mateša hears that too, so he'll fix it in the next and the next years. This is a page 41 showing the implementation of the local level sport program. So, distributed by county. And then you can see that the cost of the funds allocated to the counties is 4 million and 600 thousand kuna. So you talked about it, too, but here's what I'm going to say. Of these, five Slavonian counties, therefore, received a total of 750 thousand kuna, which is if we consider that Slavonia is a fifth of Croatia and a fifth of Croatia's population is still slightly less than it should be on the average. But what bounces drastically are funds for the Olympic Children's Daycare Festival, where, for example, 414 thousand kuna for Slavonia, 41,000 or 10% for 5 Slavonian Countys, and Slavonia is 20%. So here is an example for Brod-Posavina County 6543 Kuna, for Osijek-Baranja 8022 Kuna, for Požeko-Slavonska 9 and a half, and for Virovitica-Podravka 4000 Kuna. The only one who bounces and rightly says it is Vukovar-Srijemska, which is on average the other counties in Croatia, so please. It is that the replica to you, but to Mr. Matesha, we are instructed not to do so in the future according to Slavonia as we have done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77403	It was not at all a replica of Mr. Marijan Škvarić because he did not say one thing about what you were replicating. I don't really know what kind of problem you have right now, do you not understand the Rules of Procedure or do you deliberately violate it? But look, I'll keep warning you until you realize you're making a mistake. The replica will now be answered by Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, I did warn that these funds for the local level programme are very insufficient, but what I do have experience when we get these funds is that the basis for getting the funds is to be a program, not someone's wish or someone's desire to need something. There's nothing we can give if you come, anything you want, and there's no argument for what you want. I think really if Slavonia didn't get it, I certainly believe in the good definition of these programs because she didn't make some good arguments. Maybe I really agree with this town of Vukovar that we should help them develop all the sports and activities they are. But this all doesn't have what I want, but let's just make it a basis for the program and the projects then they'll get the funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77405	Second replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Well, it's normal that in most of your debate, I agree with you because what I'm experiencing is that today was supposed to be a holiday of Croatian sports when this high honor home is talking about sports. Unfortunately, we went into debates more into politics than we did in the actual function of sports. What you have observed in your debate is that the most affirmative of social activities is sport and that sport with its multiple activities in society is certainly very significant. It is good that in your debate you have also touched real examples and I think that the debate of all colleagues should have gone in such a way that this 2012 Programme and Financial Report is much better in other times. Also, part of what is also important, and that was the most common issue of stumbling, the question of sports television. That perhaps at a time when television was created maybe the intentions were justified and certainly the desires were the popularity of sports, but given this experience and the visibility of this programme we see that this project did not revive because if there is no visibility, then I think that these funds were badly spent. Also, with this problem that is related to the Croatian Academy at the Olympic Committee, there is a real problem and a real perceived lack. And I think that HoO and the Ministry of Education, Sport and Culture need to find a quality solution because as far as I'm aware, and I'm well aware, these people have completed certain programs that have been approved and with these shortcomings surely these people must not be punished. And that's the role of the HoO, but in any case, the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77407	The replica corresponds to Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77408	Well, I really wanted to show you what our debate was supposed to be like. ... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77409	Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77410	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague means I really wanted to show what this debate was supposed to be like in these two days, concrete to examples of good practice. So we can see what can be done, what else should be done. I'm afraid there may be too much routine and too little innovation in this report. I think we should do a little bit more work here, and that's what I wanted to point out in that part. Here, for example, perhaps I should once again mention Mr. Chop's secretary-in-chief where one good part was the idea of a system whether semi-amateurism or semi-professionalism in sport. That was good before, it worked really well. We're all waiting for someone to pay for the pro, and for everything that needs to be done, all they need is money. People are beginning to forget that amateurism has a very important thing to do and that someone is helping you with everything. And as for sports television, I'd like to say that I agree with what I said about television being the most important thing in the world. And the personal intensity of sports is to get young people out of these rooms first, not to watch TV, not to be on the Internet, but to play sports. And that should be, that's my opinion, that you should invest more in these sports facilities, sports camps and centres, education and this second one should deal with whoever wants to pay for it but out of their pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77411	We're continuing an individual debate. There's a respected colleague, Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77412	We in this debate colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Matesha, have a pretty giant system error. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of The law on sport in the Croatian Parliament should not discuss the Annual Report on the work of HOO, but the Report on the implementation of the programme of public needs that this Croatian Parliament should bring to the proposal of the same HOO under the same Sport Act. I've been a representative here for a long time, the first Olympic Committee report I've read about, it's been debated for '99. year, so it seems to me that this is somewhere on the 15th, never has the Croatian Parliament brought a public needs programme in sport, and it should be on the proposal of the HOO every year. If we had brought this programme of public needs and then discussed its execution, then many of the discussions would have become groundless. I ask my colleagues from the HoO to submit to the Parliament every year, in accordance with Article 75 of the Law, a proposal for a public needs programme in sport. Because then that program binds this report. Because we never actually have the opportunity to discuss what's software, what's public money going on. It's back to commenting whether it's good or not. And it's a systemic mistake for the annual report itself. We were talking about autonomy. Yes, autonomy also means a special responsibility especially in the conduct of certain public powers, which is the case here, indeed involves a special responsibility. That doesn't mean, as well as university autonomy, nor the independence of the judiciary that anyone can do what they want. And exactly the legal provisions that speak of the adoption of a Public Needs Plan, and then the report on its execution says that not everyone can do what they want. Autonomy means something else. And about the report that I do not forget, I talked about it on the board more now just a note, before submitting any reports to the Croatian Parliament I think it is necessary to lecture him. It is unacceptable for you to even call the institution's report names which they are not called. For example, on page 5, you are talking about a relationship with the Ministry of Education and Sports. It hasn't existed since 2004. There are other examples, Mr. Chop was on the board, he knows, I told him. So it's important that it doesn't look like a pooling of several separates that some people have done because that's probably how it's done, that's when it's done to pass a lecture of common, redacture, and then it really looks kind of too high. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The law on sport is defined by the powers and tasks of the HoO. I would really like it if we were to get a report on the work of the HOO on the public needs programme that the notes do not have, and we had to have, and another on those tasks of the Olympic Committee that are defined in the law. For example, I would be interested in what was done by the Council of Sports Arbitration or the Sports-Arbitral Court. Because that's what law is given as public authority to the Olympic Committee, and that's the part of autonomy that we don't interfere with those decisions, but to be kind of informed about them. And I think it's really time after a lot of years for those reports to be structured in a very different way. You look at this and the last or the last or the last or any other year, they're exactly the same for you. The first page of this, the second page of this, the fifth page of that, just changing numbers, possibly small differences in whether it's Olympic or not. About the content itself, I am personally happy especially successful by Croatian athletes. When you look at the medals won since in 2012 the Olympic year was also a certain success and when you compare it with the number of athletes and athletes in which it was invested in the pre-Olympic cycle it turns out that actually I will now say a very group much more rewarding even though it is very imprecise, I apologize in advance investment in athletes. I think we should change the ratio a little. We still publicly finance much more athletes than athletes and better performances have athletes than athletes and it needs to be turned around a little bit. It's a good thing that women's sports commission is on its way. It would be good if we had something in our annual reports. So, programically, I said that we discussed and adopted the public needs program, and then it would be easier for us to talk about the programme itself. Of course, it's programically significant and funded from the budget itself. I can agree with the principles that have been said here by my colleagues, which would not have been much elaborated, so larger and commercial sports should receive less public money, smaller and those sports with less commercial capacity should receive more money, so because some of them are more or less just sustainable. We heard and a colleague named Matesha said some examples of such sports. Two regulations are also mentioned through which the financing of the alliance goes. On your website there's only one, I've tried to find that other one to see actually what the criteria are, there's nothing about it, and then there's my suggestion to supplement the report actually and so that we would really know that 50th or there's somewhere about a million kuna that goes into the alliance, what is it really going to be? This is how we see discretion, one... the alliance has no idea between 200 and 500 thousand kunas, then you have 2, 3 with 2 million kunas and then you have a pair of these big, basketball, handball, ski which is over 4 million kunas a year. How, why don't we know, financially. There's been a lot of talk about it. What I find unacceptable. Every year it was unacceptable for me, and I said that, and I'll keep saying it. Total for sports development programs, all 13, 15 million 323 thousand 782 kuna, 15 million kuna, all 13 development programs. The activities of the Olympic Committee body and the service of the Olympic Committee or of the salaries and fees to the employees of the Olympic Committee, the material costs, the functioning of the body and the service of the Olympic Committee, so that I can say the Olympic Committee 18 million kuna. It can't be the cold drive of the Olympic Committee bigger than the developmental programs in sport, it can't. No matter how we nod our heads, he can't, he can't. We were talking about investing in coaches. A fellow Shuker seemed to be telling me, in the training program in the development program de realized 9 million 800 and salaries to employees 12 million 200, it just can't be like that and there's here I believe space for certain corrections. About sports television, financial sports television, I think a lot, and it's been said too much, if I were a believer, I'd say that we all need to pray to whoever we believe that these guarantees don't come up because if the guarantees come up, then we're in serious trouble. We, the Olympic Committee and athletes. And as the whole story develops, I'm afraid we might be able to get into some of these problems because if the guarantees come up, I wouldn't want to be in the skin of those who will then have to make decisions. Whether these were correct or not, then, will show time, but the fact that they were quite risky guarantees. Croatian Olympic Academy. There's been a lot of debate here. The law also defines as one of the most important tasks of the Olympic Committee to promote professional work in sport and care for training, training of employees through the Croatian Olympic Academy. Otherwise, when we talk a little wider, the problem of trainers, the problem of professional training coaches and people who work in sports especially with children is one of the bigger problems. I think we even have, we don't even have good legislation and that we should change the provisions of the Sport Act that concern coaches, so because we and our children are especially involved in the work of very often uneducated people. We took one principle that a top athlete is also a good coach, you don't have connections I know great coaches who weren't good athletes and outstanding top athletes who were no coaches. It's just two different jobs. However, the Olympic Academy is an extremely important institution. I'm glad the things that were seen weren't good. Therefore, if it is indeed true that it has not been accredited in the manner in which it should be through the adult education system for issuing diplomas or certificates in the manner in which it should be. I'm glad it's being corrected. That shouldn't have happened. However, I expect little and more from the Olympic Committee as a roof sports organisation in the context of strengthening and professionalising the way coaches or professionals work with athletes and athletes. There is not enough to have a formal institution that will then stamp through a larger or smaller course of testimony. I'm not sure she has to be as high-school as the law says, but it has to be a really serious and accredited institution. Here's the time he doesn't allow me anymore. In conclusion, I think the time has come for a little bit of what she would say to fit into the ball, to go law enforcement, that we as a Parliament should bring a public needs programme into sport, that we know what our priorities are, and that's why we're discussing a report that I think should be a little bit more structured or structured in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77413	Thank you, too. We move on to replicas, first respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lugarić, you said well, yes, and I have been here for 6, 7 years now that we have never discussed the plan and the programme of public needs in sport, and that is, I fully agree with you, but if we were objective and then really assessed the public needs programme in sport, I believe that this would go the same way as an assessment of the damage from the elementary disasters where around 8% of these damages from the elementary disasters that it estimated were relevant to any county commission so that it would receive compensation from a state of 8% The needs in sport are much, much greater and would be much greater than those of the Croatian Olympic Committee and local units, local self-government. So when we really did list all the needs, the public needs in sport, the cash amount for these needs would be very, very large, and the state knows what state it is, what social status and everything else is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77415	... Maria Lugaric. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77416	Dude, there's a saying that says, when we don't know where we want to go or which way we want to go, it's good every time. Now, that's what we do without that program of public needs. The public needs programme, which, by the way, brings in every unit of local self-government that has a local budget, defines what that is, what the goal is. Will we, as a sports policy, determine that we only finance top-notch athletes? We can also say public needs only to the Olympics and the big ones, etc. Or we say no, our goal is to prevent health, mass, which is how we define public needs. I think it's very public to define public policy in sport and at national level, not that we, by some rulebook or by regulations or I don't know, based on a decision which bodies we do at some point seem to be optimal. That's really what's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77417	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77418	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Lugaric, if that were what you say, then in this opinion the government should stand by Article 75, paragraph 4, of the National Journal 94/03, we give the opinion that this is what you say, but I have just said that the biggest problem of this report is that the government has not called upon the law on which it gives its opinion and then they would see that, based on this article, who is obliged to submit the report. Not the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Olympic Committee to the Government and the Government to the Parliament. And you know when? When the budget is implemented. It's all in there, so read it. I've now read article 75, item 4 and you'll see. You have an article 74 that defines your funding, in fact public needs in sport, and Article 75 defines what is financed from the state budget and which is financed by the units of local self-government and if when you adopt the budget of units of local self-government, the Administrative Department of Social Activities gives you the subject of public need in sport and it is brought along with the budget, so at the same time as the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation, you do not memorize, my people, and then the Government does stupid things if someone gives 114 million kuna without any program. So, the basis for this programme is the regulation, but then, Comrade Lugaric, in this opinion you should refer to the law and the item, actually the article and the item that determines it, and by doing so you give an opinion, then this opinion certainly wouldn't look what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77419	The replica corresponds to Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77420	The government is giving an opinion on the document she received. Article 75, paragraph 4 of the Law on Sports, the implementation of the public needs programme and the spending of financial resources, the Croatian Olympic Committee shall submit a report to the Croatian Parliament, not the Government, the Croatian Parliament and the Ministry within the time limits prescribed by the Budget Act. ... That's it, I just read it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I don't think lawyer on this side or on the other side, I think when we're in trouble, then it's most safe to stick to firm points, firm point of law. Well, it's equally true for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77421	Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77422	Dear colleague Lugarić, I fully agree with you with the conclusion that we should discuss here on the basis of the public needs programme in sport. We wouldn't be discussing today, we'd be done yesterday because we wouldn't be discussing sports television if we had a strategy in the media, or a media strategy. We would not talk about the Croatian Olympic Committee this way if we had a sports strategy, if we had to go to another strategy. Segmentary talk and ask for an appeal to the law, which is, we should absolutely respect the laws. The laws don't respect the government, those laws passed by the Parliament, they don't respect the government, and now it's normal that we're in one... position. When we start here in the Parliament to discuss what Croatia needs on both the media and sports, then probably those who have to implement these plans will be responsible for what they do. Now we are in one chaos, the only problem is that the Government and those in the Parliament in power do not see their responsibility in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77423	Reply to the replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77424	So, in one part of the strategy, my colleague Vuksic can really help, but I have to admit, and I don't particularly like that that in every area we are actually looking for a strategy, maybe even as an excuse not to do something when it might not be convenient to do it. I think in the 21st century and fast time it takes a little bit to revise that system, everything has some kind of strategy, that it's written down, then we drive on those tracks. So a little bit we have to think about setting the system more flexible, of course and strategies can be made to make them more flexible, but I don't belong to exactly what they are, the fetish strategies, I think we even have too many strategic documents that aren't being implemented. I'd be perfectly satisfied with the simple programs that would then be implemented in a shorter period, but then we'd be sure that's what we really think we should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77425	The last replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77426	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Lugaric, so your debate has a slightly greater weight than the rest of them because you are not only a long-time representative in the Croatian Parliament but you have also been a deputy minister of the Resor Ministry who is competent to speak about this problem as well. So I support your idea of public needs in sports and public policies that are not available, which is missing, but if we only referred to what the Parliament should or should not have done, I think there was time. Well, I respect your work and I follow it, but I think the real reason why we've been discussing this for two days is because it's a little weird that the Assembly Committee unanimously accepts this report, and the plenary session of the Parliament is completely different about it. I think the reason for the political fact that your president of the party and the government has decided that Mr. Mateš needs to be replaced, that he has had enough mates, and that is now a change in rhetoric and politics and debate in the Parliament. And all of what you have structurally said is even the office but there is a time and space that is not only a responsibility on the Croatian Olympic Committee that is not true at all, it is the responsibility of everyone sitting here in the Croatian Parliament. And what's certainly politically clear is everything that's been said we should fix, but the decision is that Matthew should be replaced and it's decided by the president of your party. And that's why we've been discussing this for two days just to turn this down and get a shift on the Croatian Olympic Committee, read politics without pragmatism. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77427	Now let's listen to Maria Lugaric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77428	... So the president of any Olympic committee specifically fellow Mateš as well as the other members of the HoO Executive Board elects the HoO Assembly, we choose neither you nor I nor Milanovic nor the Committee nor the Ministry but the Olympic Committee Assembly. [[Speech is not enabled.]] About the parent committee to untangle it once now, I personally requested the removal of that item from the agenda of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports because we lacked the data. There was no agreement to remove it from the day-to-day work. In view of everything we asked for an additional report after the Financial Report of Sports Television, Col. Chop later delivered it to us, we received a report of financial supervision and a report of sports inspection because we did not accept the proposal to discuss this report after we received all these materials. So it's not exactly how things were presented or how they like to be introduced, nor are we exactly the irresponsible advocates to change our mind as someone tells us to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77429	The president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the respected Zlatko Mateša, has now come forward. My colleague Mattesh, when you speak on behalf of the promoter, then you must come here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77430	Dear MPs, the first part relating to the public needs programme in sport, so we have no objection to the competent authorities of this country setting up a system of financing sports however they wish. Whoever is in power and whoever is in power in any European country of course has a lot, political, democratic right to set up sports as he wants, the way he wants to finance sports as much as he wants. Set your priorities and bring in a program that wants to finance the same. The Olympic Committee in any country is autonomous and acts in accordance with the command of the International Olympic Committee, so if we had such a situation, we would have to adopt our part of the budget in particular and we have nothing against it. If that is the will of the ruling majority, bring such rules of conduct and do so, and that is also absolutely possible. Is it going to be effective about it by that. As far as the employees of the Croatian Olympic Committee are concerned, these are people who are committed to doing their job not for the Olympic, Olympic is not important at all, he does not have any special spectacular jobs, he works for these 90-ac alliances. And that's why in those alliances you have someone who works four hours, you have one employee because that infrastructure is covered from one place. And if you have like this year 667 international performances by Croatian athletes then take from the most banal things of equipment, airlines, travels, organizations, preparation someone has to do. And I don't think that should be too controversial. You'll find very few state agencies where the share of payments in total expenditures is below 10%. At the end of the Croatian Olympic Academy, distinguished MPs, there is such that, according to the International Olympic Charter, each Olympic Committee must have an Olympic Academy which is primarily aimed at promoting the Olympicism. I think now we're just going to consider the possibility that we can just go back to that. We were informed the other day by our ministry that it is not willing to finance educational programs for coaches and professional staff in sport. We don't have any particular interest in doing this ourselves without some broader support, so we're now considering the possibility that we're not doing it and that we're only doing it on the promotion of olympics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77431	Maria Lugaric stands up to this replica exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77432	A fellow Matthew just to make things perfectly clear, so it's not about whether you or I have anything against or we like it or we don't like it like this, we'd like it like that, it's now such a thing set in law, until we change the law it's like that. Of course, there is one part of autonomy but the part that applies in our law under our public programme under the public needs programme in sport for which the Olympic Committee is responsible under the law. This part on its own is I think the Olympic Committee, of course, autonomous, and no one is questioning anyone at all, nor has it been disputed. Around the academy, yes, I agree with the state's lack of funding. It is adult education programmes that students finance themselves, the state finances a public higher education system where one part of them is educated and the state pays, but under the law, the Olympic Committee does have the task of taking care of the development of professional staff, whether only at the level of development... so I repeat in the law that the Olympic Committee is working to promote professional work in sport and care for training and training of employees. So, it is the legal obligation of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Maybe it's not good, maybe it's up to the law, but then let's change the law while the obligations are so defined, that's how we should stick to them, no matter what they think.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77433	We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, dear Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77434	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, only a fool doesn't change his mind, especially when he finds out the arguments contrary to those on which he brought the original attitude. The dispute is here, which is why the committee changed its mind and unanimously adopted the Croatian Olympic Committee report, and we have not heard here, we are in fact clear that the Kukurik coalition will reject the Croatian Olympic Committee's report. Arsen Dedić wrote a verse, very good for the situation, or it is worth the first definition that I spoke or this second one, or the verse of Arsen Dedić: "I have a heart and so I have a vitar smoking." As it is said, we are already here on the board remember when the head of one agency was removed and the committee brought a negative opinion on it, and he knows well about it and Vice-President Mr. Stazic, and then the order came that the leader still has to be extended to him, or he should be elected chief. We talked about this scandal in the media, too. Now a little bit about the report itself. We do, when we read the report, are controversial three loans, the way they were given, but it's not up to us to judge whether it's good or not, if it's illegal. It's amazing to me that there are so many decoded views in the report, I'm sorry about the government's opinion as if it were a court that ruled, which says it's illegal. When we speak out of opposition and when we bring such judgments, he tells us, on my right, they say we have no right, we are not a court and we do not have the right to judge. It has already been decided here, I do not think it has been decided by Mr Matesha because I would certainly have set the leadership of the Croatian Olympic Committee differently, with my humble knowledge, but fortunately my smallness does not interfere with it and competent people do so, those who are on the Croatian Olympic Committee do so. And Mr. Matesha's thread is set up with our will and I hope it will not be taken down by our will. But what is going on here is that we need to throw trust in the Croatian Olympic Committee as a group of incompetent people dealing with money and something under the table there. If that's how you send the police, the DORH, the Jump, everything you need to send. But let's not have an honorable organization that, I will repeat what I said in replicas, nothing is more successful in Croatia than sports and the only thing that is successful in Croatia is sport and of course we have successful individuals artists, scientists, we have, it's the only one. What we have to organize, everything on the state level and everything about the organisation of the state, government and parliament, unfortunately, is not working. And now we'd like something else not to work. It's not good when the Croatian Olympic Club seems dissonant. It is a mistake of the safe leadership of the Croatian Olympic Committee. You must agree between yourself, it is not good when an honorary athlete who is a role model for young people such as Zoran Primorac to attack him as he was attacked and to remain without the conviction of the Croatian Olympic Committee. It is bad, it is a bad message no matter how much it is said here that Mr Antun Vrdoljak is responsible for the Croatian Olympic movement and how much it deserves that Croatia entered the Croatian Olympic movement very early. Credits are one thing and the other is practical. And I don't think that's good and it's strong, the great shadow has fallen on the Croatian Olympic Committee because of that. Mr. Primorac gave a lot of sport to talk about him like he was a athlete and a man who was never in sports. Is this someone's reckoning with someone, is it, we heard that Mr. Milanovic ordered to be removed from Mr. Matešu's position? I don't think, Mr. Milanovic certainly doesn't do these jobs, because I talked to him about some other things, he said it's none of my business, I won't get involved in it. I believe that he is not involved, I do not believe that he is messing with because he is not even involved in the affairs he should be involved in and that he will then join the Croatian Olympic Committee. Al, Mr. Jovanovic is tampering with all the evidence, all of his statements he has made so far suggest he is not doing his job, but rather wanting to be accounted for, wants to achieve what he did not achieve in sports as he was young and it does not go that way. That is why Mr Jovanovic, who had all my sympathies as an opponent, and when he acted together with Mr Stazic the way he acted in the Croatian Parliament, but now it has become too dark, now it is hanging upside down. Now it's us who want to distract maybe not as well in ways they've done, we're destroyers I don't know what. Sports television is quite certain, which we talked about a lot, why she used to talk to a colleague about how we would bring strategies into everything. Look, a country that is a small country, which wants to survive, whose television must survive, and that is public television, should have such a media strategy as we want in the media. It shouldn't be a 500-page bookshop, which we want with public television, which we need in the media. There's a set of laws to be changed. We agreed with the minister at the 3rd month means we were cut in the 3rd month that we would bring the strategy by 6 or 9 months at the latest. We've been late for a year and a half. Nothing's done. Why wasn't that done? Now it's easy for us to share the pucks about what sports television needs. I said a little while ago, it's a weird cross is that sports television. It is both public and commercial and public interest and not public and certain that some of the private interests are in this Sports TV because it is commercial. And quite certainly from this place I say responsibly that the people who run sports television are not up to the task because if they were, that sports television would be different. We know that 30% of specialized channels can have another unspeakable program. 30% of the unspeakable program can get what it wants, and that's the commercial part where sports television can make money. However, there should be an idea, a capacity and some visions for that. Sports TV doesn't have that. If we were to put an end to all the things that our colleagues had said before that there was no ratings, then we should end much of it ourselves. I think sports television is also needed for sports television to have a future, that it is not a matter of the future that hastily started the project but it is necessary to make some kind of connection between sports television and Croatian television. It is unacceptable that Croatian television not only sports television but also commercial televisions, new TV, RTL and other smaller televisions prevents the archive or sets such prices that are unbulful, which no one has the money to pay. It is inadmissible that sports programs that are very important especially for those who follow sports, tattoos in some drawers and not to be given to televisions that want to broadcast. As Mr. Matesha used to talk about, several games of great importance that would be particularly, or success in Olympic sports that should be played on television, various televisions. It is not only the property of Croatian television. Of course Croatian television is available to them, but it is property and those subscribers who have the right to know and have the right to see. On Croatian television is so good a program is in bunkers that it's amazing that we don't watch all these programs. And it started, thank God to show the drama program, and some old shows started to get out of the bunker. However, I understand why this is not done, so to see how bad Croatia has been doing TV today. How bad it was, because how good it was before. And everything that's been done before. I personally, we didn't negotiate at the club because we don't have that principle as other clubs have, so they tell us that we vote like the wind, everyone votes as they please, that we vote as anyone wills. I speak here as a parliamentary representative, I have the right to vote. I will personally support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77435	We have two replicas, first respected Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77436	Dear colleague Vuksic, this was another one in a series of your demagogue discussions. But I'd like to briefly just look back at a few, you haven't heard what I've said yet, you're replicating a few of your sentences. You're talking, when we talk about this report and when we talk about a loss of 40 million kuna you're talking like, and that's what your colleague was talking about yesterday in the direction of meaning, you from the Labourist are talking about in the direction of how it's not that big money so it's going to work out. So you have a standard completely different from your discussions when God forbid that in some state institution here a debate that has twice as much deficit and let there be much less shortages you then rise to all four and bang around the government, as if the world were collapsing. These are your double standards that you have in your discussions. And you're also saying, in your current debate, you said that you weren't really competent to talk about what and how and who you should choose in sports and some sports institutions here we're talking about the Olympic Committee. But also on the other hand, when we talk about some other topics here in the Assembly where you are absolutely not competent, you also salt your brains for professional people who know what they're saying and how they discuss it in this House. So here, once you decide what your standards are, if you're competent, you're still talking about what you know and not what you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77437	Here's an answer to this replica of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77438	Comrade Habek, now, I don't know what to say to you. You didn't actually say anything, you wanted to say something and you didn't say anything. What you're saying is demagogy. Demagogy was your Prime Minister Milanovic's opening speech because he stepped on everything he said. Demagogy was your promise. All that you, the Kukuriku coalition promised, was demagogy. It's not a demagogy if you're doing what you say in action, if you're shaking for it. What I'm competent for, I'm a general-type politician like you. First of all, you're in pain one thing, you have to defend what you know is not good, you're in pain of what you can't tell the truth and it hurts you. That's the biggest demagogue you're talking about. Yeah, we are populists. Labourists are populists. If populistism is what listens to the people and says what the people think. If populism and demagogy are what protects the interests of the people, that we are. First you were talking about the pay that it's populism, that we're looking for a pay cut. 10, 15 of our proposals were translated into your own, and they were all demagogy. So how come the government demagogues then acts, so what did you cut the salary of 6%? He'll be here... 21% will come to the fact that we won't have to pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then that'll be what? Excuse me. To decide what I'm going to talk about, I'm afraid I'll keep my mouth shut next time. It's the first time and last time because we have nothing to answer to. And the fact that I'm salting my mind in order to suck your brains out would take tons and tons of salt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77439	Another replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77440	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, don't pay too much attention to the discussions on the other side because it really is what you say. I can't defend what you defend not to, and they have to. And I'm going back to the part where you were talking about the Olympic Club, and that's what we're talking about. Full members of the Croatian Olympic Committee are 38 sports associations of Olympic sports, 33 neo-Olympic sports, 21 sports associations and alliances of the County and the City of Zagreb and the Croatian Olympic Club, association 9 associations and institutions from sports and 8 sports associations and 2 temporary. Clear structure. The Olympic Club is what Mr Matesha, the president of HoO, has been given the opportunity to be a full member because she felt the need for those who are the most responsible, who are the most successful Croatian athletes in that body to have the right to vote. And now politics, one smaller group, is not all in the Olympic club for what came out but one smaller group is trying to abuse them from one political party to cause dissatisfaction. So someone invited you to the club to talk, to have the right to speak, to vote, and then to ignore all other sports alliances, 93. That should be ignored. Their opinion isn't important. It's just us. We are now afraid of something, and then income is clear, 131 million kuna, of which 114 from the budget, regular incomes 5 million and 850, own income 11 450 and other revenues from Olympic solidarity 4 807. So one large amount of work by HoO leadership. And now, and that must be a challenge because it's not allowed for those who lead to the development of the project on their own and for them to think otherwise. Everything should be in the service of the Olympics then. I think they went wrong and it's not good for Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77441	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77442	Dear fellow Boris, when I was talking about the Olympic club, I don't think the Olympic club in general turned its back on the Croatian Olympic Committee, but it's not good when athletes and those who won medals for Croatia fight among themselves. I'm not going to tell you now if that's it, that's exactly what it was going to do, and that's to argue. Fighting athletes who are actually unique when fighting in the field means fighting them at the green table. That's not good. And this, too, I thank you for taking care of my health, I didn't get excited, I worked at the theater for 15 years, I was a theatre critic, they asked what my specialty was. I'm a little more special than a colleague, so I don't fly high but I'm a low-key.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77443	The final word on behalf of the HDSSB club will be given by respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There's more of them that worked at the theater, but I won't talk about it, and I won't let them come forward like they did. But we will not talk about this, but about the Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012 and this debate that lasts a day and a half. Unlike previous reports that flowed about an hour-to-two period for 2009, 2010, 2011, this debate lasted a day and a half, with 30 registered speakers. What's he saying? It talks about mixing or trying to interfere, directly mixing the instructional policy into sport. Trained by those speakers who, in previous years when this report was held, did not even hear a few sentences when everything was fine, and now it is okay because the internal control of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the State Audit and 7 sports inspections sent to the Croatian Olympic Committee, and finally this report which can be said to have very few objections because all arguments are on the table, all arguments are before us. It never seemed to me this report was more extensive, more concisely, more clearly, about each spent kuna of the Croatian Olympic Committee. After all, who, if politics is already involved in sports as well as in the Croatian Olympic Committee as the ultimate or supreme body of it, who is funding the Croatian Olympic Committee? The Croatian Parliament? Croatian Government, with 114 million kuna. Where do these money come from? Croatian lottery, so from players who play lottery, lottery, raffle, bingo and I don't know what everything is. So from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, yes, it's always from the citizens. But how do we argue then? It doesn't come from the SDP, not from the HNS, not from anyone else. They are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that is why we need to talk here today just as such, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So if there are irregularities that are widely discussed here these two days, so you have the DORH and there is A BUSKOK, there is how someone said the institutions of the Republic of Croatia so that they did not intervene with your remarks almost bordering on crime in the Croatian Olympic Committee, and there is no such crime because the State Audit gave an impeccable assessment of the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. And I am convinced that, as you were saying about that council, I will say under the quotes of Seksovo, which is the report of the National Anti-Corruption Council, when it is said here that the SDP club will be against the report of that council, and the second day you voted in favour, except for the person who said it, so is this time because you have no reason to vote differently. If you have a conscience, if you have knowledge and you are willing not to ruin Croatian sport through this debate and destabilising Croatian sport just because it must be Croatian sport. Because these are all Croatian champions, Croatian medal winners...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77445	My colleague Grubisic...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77446	... those who carry the name of Croatia throughout sports resorts around the world. That's what you do. That's what your minister does through you who are instructed here to discuss it like that. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-09-0.u77447	And now I'm giving you a warning, because you insulted the parliamentary party and I'm setting a break until 3:00. I'm closing the debate. Second, the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012 is accepted." Who's in? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Please, we'll have to, we have an objection to the vote, so we'll repeat the vote. I'm asking who's in. Who's against it? And who's restrained? Two, and who's third? I see two, two hands in the air. I see two hands. I'm asking for a result. 29 colleagues voted for, 70 against, 2 were abstentions, therefore the conclusion was not accepted.
