ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74601	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. Have a good day. We will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 624 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, and their reports were received at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Agriculture Ms. Snjezana Spain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74602	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Mss of the Assembly MPs and the gentlemen of the Parliamentary Representatives. We have before us a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, primarily for the purpose of harmonising with the timeframe for the adoption of the Rural Development Programme, which depends on the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted on 17 December 2013, which concerns support for rural development from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In fact, the provisions so far did not provide for the possibility for rural development measures to be implemented as national measures but were intended to be financed under the common agricultural policy of the Rural Development Fund. Their implementation will be defined by a rural development programme to be adopted by the Government on a proposal from the ministry following consultations and approval by the European Commission. At the time of the adoption of the Support Act last year, that Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council was in the form of a proposal and was expected to be adopted by the end of August 2013 which you see from the above that it was not realised at EU level, it was only adopted at the end of 2013 so on 17 December 2013. Without the full legislative framework, it is not possible to complete the rural development programme in a satisfactory manner, so it is also a matter of the date of adoption of the programme as well as the start of its implementation regarding further regulations that the European Commission is obliged to prepare on behalf of the Member States. Since the programme has not yet been adopted, rural development measures cannot be financed from the European Rural Development Fund, and in order to ensure for our agricultural producers the continuity of support for a whole set of measures such as ecological, integrated production, support for difficult management conditions, we have come to amend the law and prepare sublegal acts. In this way, rural development measures will still be financed from the national budget for 2014 and it is possible for agricultural producers to achieve incentives for agricultural production. In addition, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has been enabled to complete the preparation and process of the audit of technical capacities, and in this case to proceed with the application for support. In view of the above, we have proposed to amend this law once again to allow agricultural producers to apply for support and to exercise the right to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74603	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74604	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, you said that the funds for the payment of these support were secured in the state budget of 2014 because, you said, look at the phonogram and you will see, and here in the draft budget you are actually saying in the bill that the funds are secured in projections. Funds cannot be provided in projections, can only be provided for in 2015. Since it is a large amount of 287 million kuna, since the agricultural budget is reduced by a significant amount then I am interested in what funds will be paid from this year and how do you plan to fit the excessive deficit measures at country level in the budget proposal for the following year?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74605	The answer to the replica of Snowflake Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74606	Thank you very much for asking. So just to clarify, the submission of the request is in 2014, and the payments for support for production 2014 are therefore projections. As regards the deficit, I can only say that the Ministry of Agriculture has in 2015 provided funding from the European Agricultural Fund in accordance with the accession contract and the amount of 30%, thus reducing the resources from the national state budget relating to incentives. And payments go once again in 2015 by submitting applications in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74607	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First in the discussion of SDP and counterpart Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74608	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed deputy minister, colleague and colleague. The amendment and addition of this law on support, agriculture and rural development is only due to delays in the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. This appropriation is intended to cover: In order not to lose the right to monetary support for rural development for the transitional year 2014 it is necessary to adopt the proposed amendments and additions as the procedure for the adoption of a single AGRONET claim for direct payments in agriculture and rural development at the EU level has started from 1 March and runs until 15 May of this year. In the period from 2014 to 2020, the European Union will allocate 55 billion euros annually for agricultural production incentives through measures of the common agricultural policy. In accession negotiations for our farmers, the Republic of Croatia has provided an envelope totaling just over 700m euros annually of which 373m for direct payments and 333m for rural development. The greatest wealth of the European Union is its population and natural resources. Common smart, sustainable, inclusive work by citizens of the European Union can use natural resources to help ensure long-term growth and progress by all Member States. This is recognised in the European Union's common agricultural policy, and new approaches have been introduced through successive reforms to help protect the environment. The trend continues, according to some basic provisions for the next seven-year period 2014/20. The European Union is planning to pay about 30% of its incentives to agricultural economies that will produce at least 3 cultures annually, a part of the area will have pastures and will partially deal with organic farming at least 7% of the area. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Act on Support, Agriculture and Rural Development, which was published in the National Journal 80/2013, thus allowing agricultural producers through the AGRONET system of a single application for direct payments to be entitled to pay off rural development measures. For measures under the IPARD programme, support for ensuring possible damages in agricultural production, support for the organisation of events, ecological and integrated production, for difficult management conditions, for the development of quality-labelled products and for the holding and breeding of original and protected breeds of domestic animals and crops of agricultural plants. In contrast to previous years, when Croatian farmers received two hundred different aids, dozens of times a year and everyone asked for a special paper request, entering the European Union is worth a completely different support system. And payment requirements for farmers fill in electronically, once a year, on their own or with the help of the agency or advisory services. In this way, agricultural producers are preparing to use the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. This is the source from which farmers of the European Union receive the most resources to use land and improve, provide environmental protection services in all Member States. Member States have often used support based on the rural development programme to create many different types of useful environmental protection services, with an emphasis on the role of agri-ecological measures. The services of nature, such as drinking water, clean air, and fertile soil, are not only vital to the welfare of mankind but have immense economic value. According to estimates of biodiversity loss, we lose 3% of GDP each year, thus losing 450 billion euros in clean technology in the EU's area of estimates, offering rural entrepreneurs the opportunity to be competitive and export-related to new growth opportunities. The funds are therefore aimed at co-financing activities that safeguard biodiversity, habitat and species, contribute to climate regulation by reducing carbon emissions, safeguarding water quality and availability, enabling improved soil functionality, preserving or improving air quality, strengthening flood resistance or fires, and maintaining landscape values, outcomes and support from the rural development programme. They are linked to the key objectives of Member States' recovery from the current global crisis. The implementation of operational programmes from the beginning of 2005 to 2009 has significantly increased areas, labour-intense cultures, orchards, vineyards, vegetable production. Therefore, the latest seasons show market surpluses which will have to be sought by the demanding foreign customers on their way to the customer. For example. Last year, the export of mandarins and apples. Consumer society, state, the development of the European Union is heavily influenced by organisations that promote ecology, environmental protection and human health, animal welfare and a number of ethical social issues. Under such pressure, large European retail chains have changed their food sales strategy since the late 1990s, where they highlight the quality and health of mainly fruit and vegetables. In order to standardise the production process with a large number of suppliers, a group of European traders in cooperation with representatives of consumers and farmers launched the development of a globally accepted standard, good agricultural practice that would meet the requirements of sustainable agricultural production. In 1997, the Working Group defined a standard called Euro-retailer producer working group that changed its name to global gap. By introducing the concept of global owners, they make it clear that the standard takes global value. This standard is based on recognised integrated techniques and other than implementation of HASAP and good agricultural practices includes an integrated pesticide control programme, as well as implementation of ISO 9001 quality management systems. The main objective of the norm is to define requirements for agricultural producers for the purpose of obtaining a health safety and quality product. The achievement of standards is possible through the reduction of the negative impact of agricultural production on the environment, the rational use of all resources, and the continued care for the welfare and safety of employees as well as animals in breeding. The system assessment must be carried out by an independent and authorised certification body according to uniform and internationally recognised procedures. In recent years, the revised standard of global gap has also slowly affected Croatian farmers, primarily large systems that have a product intended for export, but also smaller or medium-sized family economies that place vegetables in foreign trade chains. Agricultural producers who are planning to include this certified system in the near future must also know that only integrated and organic agricultural production can fully meet all the demands of the modern consumer. The label Croatian eco-product is only obtained by manufacturers involved in strictly controlled production in accordance with all the provisions of the organic production law of agricultural and food products and the accompanying organic production, cultivation and production of plant products. Since 2010 in the Republic of Croatia, the Regulation on integrated production of agricultural products has officially recognised a system of cultivation which includes the application of all agrotechnical measures to reduce soil, water and air pollution, i.e. environmental and natural habitat conservation, and also promotes soil fertility and biodiversity. Rich countries in the last 30 years have distinguished more categories of right foods. The largest expansion showed foods produced by a special system that may contain only some pollutants, but in lower quantities than permitted, for example less than 50%. The most widespread system of such production in the European Union countries is integrated plant protection, as well as the basis of integrated production. This system in the near future should completely replace the current conventional protection of plants. This would allow the production of large quantities of foods containing significantly less pesticide residues than permitted, with the same or lower costs than conventional ones. In this, integrated production differs greatly from the organic biology that many wrongly call healthy food production. During 2012, 120 producers were involved in integrated agricultural production, while 1528 producers were involved in the organic agricultural production of the same year. Without the amendment of the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, these producers would be left without the support of rural development and should be a guideline to other farmers in order to direct their production to the demands of a modern buyer in richer, Western European countries. The Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, which provided for these rural development measures under the Common Agricultural Policy, which is established by the Rural Development Programme, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, approved by the European Commission. However, at the time of the adoption of the Agricultural and Rural Support Act, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for the new 7-year financial period 2014-2020 was dependent on Regulation No. The European Parliament and the Council adopted the European Parliament and the Council only on 17 December 2013 instead of the end of August 2013. The implementing acts do not know the exact date of adoption, and the following national rural development measures are left without a legal basis and the possibility of implementation and financing for the transitional year 2014. In the interest of the continuity of the implementation of the rural development measure in 2014 it is necessary to take advantage of the possibility of an access contract allowing the use of national measures after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and it is necessary to amend the law in question by emergency procedure in order to allow the reporting of potential users from 1 March to 15 May of this year to be valid. The proposed law will regulate measures to support rural development in 2014 including measures under the IPARD Rural Development Programme, support for ensuring possible damage to agricultural production, support for the organisation of events, support for organic integrated production, support for the conservation of native and protected breeds of domestic animals, support for the conservation of endangered and protected species and... agricultural plants and support for areas with natural specific restrictions in agriculture. The adoption of this law does not require any additional financial resources in 2014, but the ceiling of 287 million kuna is ensured on the projections of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 when their payment is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74609	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74610	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, you were talking about the National Rural Development Program, that he was delayed for the next period. In fact, you did not mention that it was rejected by the European Commission and that 270 pages were crossed so that the use of the 2014 funds is replaced by this law. This law should be tolerable to all that has been lost in this period because no proposals or objections to the national programme have been taken into account in order to make it quality and to be assessed by the European Commission as passing, so that they can withdraw funds and compete in this year. It's a failure that shouldn't have happened, and that's why national funds must now be used that we don't have anyway, which are also asked this way and which will be minimal in this respect. Regardless of what policy options we come from, there is a need to listen to comments and suggestions because more people are certainly smarter than only those who think they are only smart, and the European Commission has assessed that 270 pages of the National Programme are not in place and that it cannot be accepted by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74611	Replication response, Mario Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74612	Your Honor, if you listened carefully to my presentation, then you could hear that our rural development programme could not be adopted and approved by the European Commission because no implementing acts have been adopted and cannot be adopted before. And the implementing acts have not been passed until today. It's a technique, a rule of adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74613	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74614	Honored Madam President, fellow Moharic. As far as I can see here as my eyes allow, he says today it's about supplementing the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act. No matter what you're talking about agriculture and rural development here? If you'll excuse me, this is some camel, sweet words, I didn't understand anything. Croatia is in the icy, unprocessed. What has this government done over the past two and over years to open 100,000 jobs, for example, in agriculture? What did she do to increase arable surfaces? Where are the agricultural cultures? What are you talking about? What you're here... It's nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It reminds me of the Stip of Shuvar who would speak for an hour should have a well, well-tensed brain to understand,... specifically said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You didn't say anything. Let's go! You threw agriculture on your knees, you destroyed what wasn't destroyed! Come on, change your policy. You run politics like in health care, you take money, and you see that health is failing. That's what you do in agriculture now. It's the last minute. It is a Croatian comparative advantage. Tourism and agriculture, the only branches where in one year, in the same season, we can turn things to better and worse than you do. There's nothing else we can do for a year. We can go to the farm, you don't want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74615	Obviously, colleague Marasovic does not understand agriculture, because only in agriculture can nothing change in a year. Replication response, Mario Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74616	Your Honor, here's the answer you've already received. You speak for yourself to admit that you don't know what you're talking about, agriculture you don't understand, but it's important to mention the century 7th and Stipu Shuvar who have nothing to do with this proposal that goes hand in hand to our agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74617	On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74618	Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, we got off to a good start in the morning, even though we stayed long last night. But this is all about changing six articles. We passed this law last year in June 2013. It's the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act. This same law speaks of a direct support programme, payments in extremely sensitive sectors, rural development measures under the common agricultural policy, state support rules, administrative and inspection supervision and infringement provisions. So we're talking about the law. The law is primarily tasked with protecting agricultural producers, protecting landscapes, protecting land. Of this everything that we are talking about today, I would like to welcome in front of the Croatian People's Party's Club this spot decision of the Ministry of Agriculture, which was on time to amend this Law on aid in agriculture and rural development just so that the agricultural economies of the Republic of Croatia could apply for this year and for 2014. And that these support that goes towards family economies will arrive in time. I think that's good. What we should always mention is that since 1.7.2013, the Republic of Croatia has been a full 28 members, that we have 28 different positions even though we have a common agricultural policy in the European Union. But we have 28 different states, different support and in different ways each country uses this support in rural development. Although this is a common agricultural policy within the European Union, there is no agricultural policy. And that's why there have been these as colleagues on the right say there are certain misunderstandings. Because the Rural Development Act, which was to be passed by the European Union last year at 8 months, was not until 12 months. And according to that law, we are obliged to comply with all our normative acts. Just so this didn't happen, the Ministry of Agriculture was going through these changes. What is also important is for the common agricultural policy and this Law, which we are talking about in 2013 about the basic law of eighty-two hundred thirteen, to talk about the competences, the implementing bodies, the guidelines, the Payment Agency, the way of financing. That's what this law says, and I think that's how we need to talk. What is most important is that for this transitional year, and this transitional year is for all EU members not only for Croatia that the funds must be provided in national budgets. This will be done and the funds will be paid to the agricultural economies. What is also important with the adoption of the EU Regulation 1305/213 since 17/12/2013, is that all the European Council Regulation 1698 since 2005 be put into effect. The proposed laws provide for rural development measures within the framework of the common agricultural policy, which are determined by the rural development programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and approved by the European Commission. So there is exactly how the Republic of Croatia can communicate and how the European Union accepts our programmes. In the design of the programme, we are autonomously independent but on how consistent this is with the common agricultural policy of the EU, the European Commission decides, and for these reasons it approves the relevant programmes for individual members. The law adopted in 2013 left the national rural development measures without legal basis and the possibility of implementation and financing for accession in 2014. To date, the rural development measures in the Republic of Croatia have a continuity in some over 10 years and the Republic of Croatia has a good experience with financing rural development and all those required bodies that control the paying agency think it works here in the best way and in the Republic of Croatia. What is most important, what is changing, what is changing in this Act is a colleague from the SDP Moharic said not to mention everything from the application of measures within the IPARD, insurance of agricultural damage, support of the organisation, manifestations etc., etc. And what we consider to be very good and quality in HNS is that with this proposal and the supplements of support in rural development, it is precisely defined by units as the maximum amount of both individual and single so that in Appendix 3 we have the maximum level of support for the preservation of original and protected breeds of domestic animals in cattle is 3000 kn per throat, in preserved sources of protected domestic animals 2000 kn per horse, 1 thousand per donkey, 700 kn per pig's throat, 350 kn for sheep, goats, 150 kn beak of Zagorje turkey, 60 kn per beak of the Croatian chicken. We also have data here at maximum amounts for organic production per hectare integrated by difficult conditions management of the event organisation. In terms of how well these proposals are well-conceived that certain amounts cannot be broken so that, with this law, the maximum ceiling for creating commitments towards the Republic of Croatia is also proposed. Here I think that this way is correct to family economies, that it is correct to agricultural producers, that everything is clear and visible in this document that is before us. What is also important in the HNS we believe that certainly the Ministry and Minister with their services that can prescribe regulations and certain regulations would certainly be good to see in protected breeds that the Republic of Croatia determines the maximum number that we want to protect. The minimum number can't but we can say the maximum for what we want to encourage. And it is there that if the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia already allocate funds for rural development and for support for agriculture then it should be primarily of quality. HNS will support such a measure and I think it is welcome and it is at the right time because it is the right time for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74619	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74620	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Mandic, you said it was only 6 articles, so let's make it 6 articles, but you said that the task of these changes is to protect the agricultural producer, if you did find time to protect after all that's happened, after all there's no need to repeat it I said it at least 50 times in this House of Commons. And I wish I was wrong when I asked Mr. Secretary that question on the current morning, but unfortunately that's the case. And now you're saying, I agree with you that this is the only possible measure. Of course, the only possible measure after the European Commission's refusal is simply a clear answer to that, but the problem is another. There are no funds in the budget and now you'll have to probably change the government will have to go to intervention to fix it. And it's hard to fix when there's no right, and agriculture like we heard Mrs. Vice President, it can't be fixed when something is destroyed in one year, it takes five, six years to get back on its healthy feet. So in these circumstances the situation is so complex, it's a good measure, however? It's hard, it's amazing because our farmers are on their knees, the village is about to break. That's the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74621	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74622	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinkovic, you think if a hundred times the truth is repeated, it will be true in the end. I don't think so. The European Commission could not accept the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia because the European Commission did not adopt its framework for the common agricultural policy. Those are the main reasons. So here we can only say that this super-organised EU country is not working. And you know why? Because of the complexity of the problem she touches. If we look at adaptations, meaning the Republic of Croatia, EU legislation, then we come to the conclusion that two-thirds of all possible decisions are related to agriculture and veterinary. That agriculture is light, is not easy, in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem and all the people involved in agricultural production are too difficult, but not just in the Republic of Croatia. Such a way and such trends are everywhere in the world. What might be some kind of light at the end of the tunnel that food needs will be growing and greater and that there is a great chance for the Republic of Croatia with competitive production, and there is the Ministry of Agriculture to find certain products that will be characteristic of the Republic because the Republic of Croatia with its size and its production opportunities cannot supply 500 million inhabitants, but if we find certain products with which we can be competitive, there is a chance for both agricultural producers and all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74623	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74624	Thank you very much. Comrade Mandic, you said that only 6 articles change and that these articles, therefore, improve support for agriculture and rural development. But we have this law of intent and we have in two, three days a concrete budget rebalance with concrete works, which is 400 million kuna less capital investment in agriculture. How, then, do you coordinate this strategy to encourage agriculture? There's one in words, and it's negative in action. We've been encouraging agriculture for years, and imports are growing. The incentives are given, and the products are thrown away. Whatever we are, the orchards are cut, the potatoes are thrown, the milk is spilled, I don't know what they're not. Is that normal? It's not. What about the analysis? What does Croatia need with agriculture? What cultures do they need? Which culture are we going to encourage, which maybe we won't? To what extent should the culture be encouraged, which should be encouraged to a greater extent? There's no such analysis. We encourage property, not production, and that's not good. And that so many billions of kunas are given to agriculture, and still today is the only flood irrigation system. No freezers, no irrigation, no distribution problems, and that's something nobody's gonna face. Which means producing when it can be placed, and when the problem is in the distribution channel, the charge problem, the placement problem. And there's still a system of incentives that doesn't distinguish that you can't encourage both shelves and production, and we encourage shelves and that's Croatian evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74625	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74626	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Maric, so what I said about the number of articles, it stands, you can check it out, therefore it is true, we have nothing to talk about. What we discussed, and I am convinced that 278 million kuna support will not be touched with this rebalancing, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Agriculture, will respect this part precisely because of the importance of helping family economies, precisely to preserve the environment, in order to preserve the quality of land and everything. What you mentioned, and that's what I was talking about, the question of competitiveness, the issue of 20 years, 23 years of policy implementation in agriculture, what have we been doing? Should we create competitors or are we just, like, looking for incentives? I think there are problems, not just from this government, that there are problems we've made ourselves with bad policies. About how we could change certain things before, so we could. We could change, we came up with six billion kuna incentives in the Republic of Croatia, did that feel like production? Did it feel like quality? Did it feel like competitiveness? Don't throw it away, I never throw it to you. Did we feel that? So we're part of public goods, the public funds of the Republic of Croatia, but we haven't processed them with more quality production, and there's a problem. That's where I agree. Also, my opinion is that the ministry has to help new buyers more significantly because we can't allow one, two or three in the Republic of Croatia, then it's already a bit of a monopoly. It is not a problem in the Republic of Croatia to produce how much trouble it is to place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74627	Thank you. Thank you very much, dear colleague. [[Intruding Mandic: I think we are essentially in a lot of agreement.]] Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74628	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Mandic, who was evaluated by the Commission, is an absurd, list of absurds, 327 pages of responses to the national programme. Full of absurds and a long list of such absurds. It is even said that they have sent four versions of the drafts of the national rural development programme. Imagine someone answering your 327 pages and saying that it was absurd to find everything in that national programme, so this year 2014 will be the year when we missed 333 million euros in rural use. This is what should not have happened and this is where the Ministry of Agriculture failed this first European exam. There won't be enough money again, as we can see in the rebalancing of the agriculture budget. We bring such changes to the law and national support for rural development when we have not provided budget funds when they are not actually available. The budget for agriculture is shrinking, not increasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74629	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74630	I do not enter into this colleague Djakić that you are professionally and as you promote, it is solely your right and your right to speak in this House of the High all that comes to your mind. But using the words absurd and things like that, I think you should still have enough fat cheeks to say it. That's what he says first about you. The issue is the functioning of the European Commission and its members through agreement. The Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the government has accepted it, and the government has given it consent to the European Commission. Normally, it is impossible for one such sensitive issue of the common agricultural policy to make any of the Members cleanup. So that's the question of the deal. Since the European Commission has not passed the framework law, it could not have been accepted. In essence, the way the European Commission operates with its members is a matter of agreement under certain rules. The Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia understand the difficulties and problems in the agricultural sector and will surely be resolved in a quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74631	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74632	Dear Madam Vice President, respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, this amendment and the addition of the Support Act, especially when we talk about the rural population, always gives us the right to say really what it is and especially us who come from the rural area and who are indeed referred to all those shortcomings. At the very beginning, I would say, it is not an excuse for either the European Commission, but first and foremost what Mr Mandic said and colleagues who spoke, it is a shame simply that the Republic of Croatia and we know that other members of the EU have written a rural development programme to really be returned, and I will not say that this has been done badly, but really, when there are so many mistakes, it is bad for one country that in such a sensitive area, this same programme is being returned to work and that the funds that are scheduled or will be foreseen will not be used in time, and this is about 333m euros. Encouraging the competitiveness of agriculture, ensuring sustainable management of natural resources and climate change, achieving a balanced territory of rural development and communities including creating and preserving jobs are long-term strategic objectives of rural development of the EU. The proposal for a law ahead of us is proposed in the interest of the continuity of the implementation of rural development measures in 2014, which, through the implementation of national rural development measures in the transitional year 2014, should provide funding to our farmers to achieve the rural development objectives. As we can see from the draft law, these amendments create an obligation based on national rural development support measures in 2014, the provision of State budget funds for 2015 amounting to 290 million kuna. Taking into account the proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget for this year, which reduces rural development funds of nearly 40 million kuna for rural development, we ask ourselves how will this affect the 2015 plan of the state budget? That's what the deputy was talking about at the beginning, but here's my question if that's what the deputy said. We'll see how it works and if it works. As the proposal for a law in Article 3 indicates that the functioning of the measures referred to in Article 30, which includes support for ensuring possible injury to agricultural production, support for the organisation of manifestations, support for organic agricultural production, support for integrated agricultural production, support for the conservation of endangered breeds and protected domestic animals, support for the conservation of endangered original and protected species of plant cultivir, support from areas with more difficult management conditions in agriculture, this should all be in line with the available resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The question is, how much will this support actually be? Is this really going to be 290 million kuna, or will the reduction foreseen by the budget rebalance for this year also reflect the state budget for 2015? The problem that our farmers face this year is the difference between the rules for the maximum amount of State support for national rural development measures paid in practice. By directing their production and their economic activities, farmers are bound by the expected support of regulations and regulations, and the problem arises in the payment of these funds. Most of them account for the rules provided for, and lower funds are paid to them. We believe that, because of the specificity of agricultural production, it is necessary to establish a model by which each of our agricultural producers would know exactly what amount of funds they can count on as support when deciding on a specific type of agricultural production. I am sure that on Monday, through two committees, the Agriculture Committee will be present on one and the other, the Minister of Agriculture will also find out or know how much support these support is for the '12th and '13th and see if they are as planned in the budget. If there is a payment limit, payment related to available resources in the state budget would be good to compensate some other measures, to help farmers because it is the only way for farmers to survive. We are aware that this is a transitional year and that as such it has been defined by the European Commission itself not only for us but also for the other Member States. Unlike other Member States which have the possibility to implement the old programmes in this year, which will be financed from the rural development programme for the period 2014/20. As a new member, the Republic of Croatia does not have the possibility and which is necessarily a certain limitation related to the difference between the use of IPARD funds and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. We hope that, as has been announced in the first issue of the European Union Rural Development Management Board, the European Union Fund and the international cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture, a new IPARD will be launched for the purpose of restructuring and reaching Community standards and for a measure 103 for investment in the processing of the search for agricultural and fish products in order to restructure these activities and achieve Community standards in March. We'd like the minister to confirm that in this assembly, but the deputy is here, too, so I hope she can say a few words about it. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because we're here and we're witnesses, and it's not really our intention to blame anyone for any kind of slowness. But another indicator is that, in regional development where we expect, indeed, the large funds provided for by the European Union, but as we can see, there are no competitions. Dear colleagues and colleagues come from Požega-Slavon County where units of local self-government, the county has already made over a billion and 200 projects that are in the final phase or have already confirmed the main project and are simply not available and will not be available until 10 months but will soon be 11 months and I am afraid that in this year, in regional development and here, as we see and in agriculture, we will not use those funds that we are scheduled to use in the European Union. I would like to remind you that the rural area of the Republic of Croatia covers almost 92% of the territory on which half of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives and how exactly by taking measures to support the rural development of the Republic of Croatia we directly influence not only our agricultural producers but the indirect and sustainable development of our rural areas, the reduction of the depopulation of Croatian villages, the retention of young people in the country, the diversification of agricultural activities, the better integration of producers, the improvement of processing and direct sales in the economy. We must also not forget areas with more difficult management conditions in agriculture where rural development measures are just being implemented as a basis for the implementation of economic activities and thus for agricultural activities. Why do I mention this in recent months, we have been bombarded with information and denials related to the adoption of the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020. Independent appraisers who assess and draft rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia for 2014-2020 media inscriptions, discussions in this assembly create the uncertainty of farmers regarding the withdrawal of funds from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. I want to believe that the Ministry of Agriculture knows what it is doing because this programme depends on the future of Croatian agriculture. I would also have you through these few remaining minutes as much as I wanted to report to you and you are witnessing that without the encouragement in agriculture, especially in rural development, there is no future of farmers, agricultural villages, there was that of fruit growing, cattle farming and we see for ourselves where cattle farming is, above all, coming from my county where it was totally destroyed but today or better said yesterday we had therefore an apple harvest where we came into a very invisible position. And at the same time, the ministry was supposed to react to that. We are aware that lately, and especially are the incentives given to build and raise permanent plantations, above all in the fruit industry, we have come into a position that indeed the year 2013 was God's day, that the crops were more than expected. And what happened to us? So we didn't have blocks or crates where apples were picked at the same time because the ministry didn't react in time. Our farmers lost hundreds of tons of this important production for the Republic of Croatia as I said we had encouraged a few years ago, and in fact it only needed a guarantee from the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Croatia because first of all I think of the Ministry to issue a guarantee that certain blocks in which apples would be harvested were available in Austria because some did but simply that support was missing. Not to say that support for others in rural development, especially when it comes to fruit growing, must also be in the standardisation of certain things. It is also important when we have already raised that level of production and have obtained a certain quality that through the insurance houses the ministry also has the support of anyone who deals with this production that is related to drought, and this again concerns the insurance company, and we have witnessed that just a few years ago, so 2013 was the last aid in those 0,80 June or 1 kuna where the ministry took part and where these producers had security and guarantee and good prices, where they were all satisfied, but today these support is no longer available. So the question is how and how do we think in the future to maintain exactly that kind of production, and we see that more and more people from the rural area have entered that production. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must not allow ourselves, as we have done in encouraging the establishment of agricultural holdings, incentivising cattle, male cows, and at the same time we see that by abolishing incentives, by reducing the prices of dairy products we have brought this very production to the edge of existence, many of our economies have been destroyed. First of all, I repeat, since I come from Požega-Slavon County, I represent those people who have had the courage to get into it, who are in charge, who took the loans, and at the same time today they had to sell everything, and no wonder that more than 30,000 cows were slaughtered. In our meat industry, Papuka in Požega received 15 employees, says we have a need, we have been increased exporting beef. What does that mean? All those farms that were in office today are gone because the cows were slaughtered and the economies are left without existence and it is questionable how people will continue to survive because they are in debt and cannot return their obligations to the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74633	Thank you very much. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74634	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, everything you said could be signed in some way. Indeed, in Croatia, as regards agriculture and the negotiating process itself, which has been very difficult and difficult, and in the opinion of all and even people in the European Union, it has ended in a way without object and with congratulations to the members of the negotiating team who, unfortunately, are now no longer working in this ministry. How can this food sovereignty be maintained by family farms in such a way that young people stay in the country and you said so yourself. Then encourage indigenous breeds of domestic animals, conservation of the environment and everything else. Here we have today proposed, not now but proposed from the European Union 20 measures in rural development, the Croatian Ministry has chosen 8 implementing measures, which these 8 implementing measures say in the ministry that will be much easier to implement. The fact is that more should be done, the fact is the same that we have this law today, it's the third law. The first we had 17.10.2012 and the second we had right away in 2013, but for reasons because here are the people in the ministry who didn't really get along, so those consultations with the European Union were not successful. I'd kind of like to argue that really in the ministry they devote a lot more. We see now in this bill of law...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74635	Thank you very much. Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74636	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, my debate has just been based on the improvement of these conditions that we have today, above all, in agriculture and then in rural development because all of our discussions are not directed against the government. But all that has not been done well or what is not planned or planned in the future we want to do with our proposals, thoughts, and especially us coming from rural areas as I said from Požega-Slavon County where it is visible how and how it is simply done. This isn't good today because the economies are gone. You are also a witness that about a month ago, a month and a half ago, we had a visit from the president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture of Mr.... so from Turkey, a country that is the largest food producer in Europe, the sixth in the world, and it is he who says without incentives there is no good agriculture and no development of agricultural production. They strongly encourage and strongly encourage production, have been determined otherwise by what are their essential products and therefore have these successes. As long as the Republic of Croatia does not encourage and find funds for agricultural production, for a wood industry that can employ a lot of people, there is no future, no agriculture, no wood industry, and then no more significant employment, and one and another branch can employ a lot of people, only that the state chooses to encourage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74637	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74638	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you said among other things that farmers were brought to the brink of existence. Incentives should, of course, be provided in agriculture, which is the policy of the European Union. However, what has been done in us so far is that it has been encouraged to do a good part without the programmes, without clear developmental visions and providing opportunities for farmers, agricultural economies to have added value, but rather it was a purely social category. Incentives in agriculture are also part of the social policy of keeping some of our citizens and citizens in the rural area, but not in a way that forces them to stand there because we will give them money, but to be satisfied, to live and work and create. What we found was what was normal and the time distance, and we know it very well in the production of milk, and you yourself mentioned cattle production in a particular segment. We've lost over the course of 40 000 family economies that have been producing milk since 2000, so I've been asking what it was until then, why it wasn't reacting the right way then, but it was still not only encouraged, but it was also stimulated to take credit but it wasn't being monitored how these loans were used. Those loans didn't go into production. These loans were used for a completely different purpose, and people were seduced, and they were wronged. We have some problems today, and that's why this government and the Ministry of Agriculture is turning it all in the right direction, but it takes time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74639	Thank you very much. Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74640	A colleague doesn't go the right way about it, and that's the problem. Two and a half or two years ago, since Kukuriku coalition arrived, you've destroyed agricultural production. So people worked until then. Yes, there were over five billion incentives. Yeah, it wasn't enough control, but you went to the extreme, dear colleague. You only cut five billion last year in a billion and a half. Now you are again, we have entered the European Union when the Ministry of Agriculture and the state budget needs to increase support funds. You're reducing them again. That's what I'm talking about. Well, you killed agricultural production in two and a few years, I'm telling you for a reason because I came from Požega-Slavon County where our farmers were destroyed because I told you earlier. Our meat industry has increased beef exports, they take 15 people. Why Bosnia and Herzegovina and that cow? People were mass slaughtering and slaughtering cows, no more economies. And everything we've encouraged through the loans, through the tractors, they're doomed today. They can't exist. Their bank's coming tomorrow to repossess their property. They don't have any income, they shouldn't have gone so drastically to the agricultural downturn. Yeah, if something wasn't good in the past government, but this is one drastic way to destroy a man in the country I'm talking about. No one's saying it should've been cut down, yeah. But not like this to destroy it. We just destroyed it. He's no longer ready for any production. And you say today the Ministry of Agriculture says we encourage a peasant with heifers. I have no idea. I didn't want to read that program at all. So, today when a man is destroyed, we offer him a heifer. So what heifer? He can't take it, because the bank sat down on his entire property. He can't function anymore. Or as I was talking about those craftsmen, so those little ones. And I have an example of him at the Pleternica, so he's working and feeding his seven children. He was punished by 25,000 kuna for some petty failures. So why didn't you punish him with 3000, 5 and not 25? He's permanently dead. And his seven children? What are they doing? It's a policy that's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74641	Thank you. Hello, Ronko, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74642	Thank you very much. Here we are listening to everything and from the fact that there is no future without incentives and shame because 40 million have been reduced to encourage rural development, rural economy, etc. etc. I agree with you, Mr. Representative, when it comes to incentives and how you said there wasn't enough control. That's right. And I wouldn't elaborate now, because I don't have time for everything and where all the resources and incentives have gone. If they had gone to the farm where they were supposed to and were used in a way that was the purpose or purpose of those funds, far away, far better for us today in agriculture. That by any chance incentives in the economy for entrepreneurship, that by any chance these funds were used in the way they were needed or as they were said to be used far better in this Croatian state. If by any chance or by any chance the means of employment, or the incentives for employment, were used in a quality way or in the way that was imagined to be the end. We wouldn't have half the unemployed on the stock market as many as we have today. Just an example and I won't do it anymore. You personally took a $12 million loan to hire a defense attorney. You have been encouraged by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Defence of the Požega-Slavon County. And what happened? The defenders are on the stock market, the credit doesn't come back, you took the company into bankruptcy, the money ended up in a real estate business in Srima, and no one asks you anything about the incentives or the funds or anything. That by any chance only those 12 million plus those incentives to the interest that you had...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74643	Thank you very much. Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74644	Every word spoken lies, lies and lies. So how, so everyone here notices it. You replicate me at a personal level, do not replicate at the level of rural development, and you may be ashamed. Because your lies have been recognized long ago in Požega-Slavon County, and I repeat to you once again in that company that you're talking about for 140 people from 230, sir, and this company has its own properties that are of great value and that will therefore go to the banks because no credit has been received without a bank, Mr. Dear, and when you know everything and every other word you say to the farmers because you said they took the loans, so they bought the cars, so they bought the apartments, you said that now, and you will answer them in Požega-Slavon County where I will personally call you and say what you said. So, about the company you're talking about, so take it, sue it, file a criminal report when that's what you're talking about. You're lying because it's been five years and you haven't done anything. So in the rule of law, look at what's going on, closes the prime minister, closes everyone, so closes the company and those people who are responsible if you claim it's true, and the company will return to selling the real estate, don't think it won't because it has a great value and today it still works 140 out of 230 people. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74645	A colleague of Lucic's and yesterday you responded in a similar way, nor did he say that someone was buying cars to encourage in agriculture, he didn't say. I don't know why you're nervous about a calm replica. Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74646	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, I didn't answer the line to confirm what I agree with you. I have advertised and warned about agricultural problems many times, not because I care about personal promotion, but because I witness the difficulties that farmers face. I come from the county, from where dairy, at the most, a lot of people looked at each other with a laugh when I talked about it and I think I talked and warned for a reason, and I wish I was wrong. I wish I wasn't right, but unfortunately, here it is today, and every day everything is confirmed by what I said. But you said one key thing, you said it was necessary to intervene on time, it was necessary to intervene, so where else is more important than agriculture. This is one production, a clear-cut factory under the clear sky where it should be intervened in time, measures taken, that there should be clear rules of the game, rules, so I have this letter from the agricultural producers countless where they warned from that milk package of the famous regulation of the market, last minute it was implemented. Now here we go these days to the Agricultural Land Agency where the rules are going to be changed, the rules are going to change because it's complicated, because it's hard, because it's not going. They simply realized that simply farmers are looking for clear rules of the game, they are looking for. I was at a presentation 15 days ago where at the Ministry of Economy, agriculture was too small a hall of interest interested in these rural development measures. Too few places, they're interested, but unfortunately they can't. So it's crucial to intervene on time. It's also happening now with the laws on pesticides a short time ago we talked about it and we said we should be somewhere in six months would be, it's late, it's inadmissible, it shouldn't be..., it needs speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74647	Thank you, thank you. But it wasn't a replica either. Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74648	Here's a colleague when you talk about intervention, and here's Deputy Ms. Spanishol, the minister is familiar with it, coming on Tuesday. I thank my colleagues from the SDP for the key debate on the Committee on Agriculture where we agreed on how and how to help this peasant in time, they got into credit problems, they paid off 7.8 of the 12 wars, and we are looking for a solution. We also invited the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, we called the Minister, we called the Ministry of Finance how and how to save this peasant to stay alive because if he paid 9 out of 12 wars, let's see how we can keep him from being a farmer. If his property is blocked, if he sits down, he's permanently finished. That's exactly what we're talking about. It's a key word, time and help support, and here are the colleagues sitting on the left and the ministry doing just that, and that's what we're gonna do about individuals' minds and telling them that people took credits like Agent Ronko says, so he's downplaying his people in the town of Požega-Slavon County, that people took loans and spent on cars, on houses, as he did, that he didn't directly say but in translated meaning, it's embarrassing, embarrassing because no farmer was buying cars, ships or apartments without raising his family economy at the same time. But unfortunately, with the measures taken drastically in agriculture, it came into place that there was no survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74649	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74650	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, there won't be any family economies better after shooting us here in the Parliament, it won't be better, you shouldn't give people false hopes and false promises, I'm just talking about it and here I have the right to set up as I wish, you shouldn't make false promises. What you finally accepted was that there wasn't enough control in the incentives it's true, I agree with that, was it clear enough in the approval of operational programs in the male cows that the operational programs for 200, 300 cows without one hectare were approved, it all comes at the collection now. It's all coming up now. But let me rephrase this, you were talking about this year being a record year of apple production and this is the first year that the Republic of Croatia has met its needs to have something to export. That's good. But what's not good is that you're giving people the wrong messages to the apple producers again, that this should be solved by the ministry. We can't go to the ministry, we have a market economy. We've been building a market economy for 24 years, it's not easy, it's a complex process, and instead of giving people tools, instruments, how to get over it, we're talking about paying for the ministry. The ministry doesn't have that money. ... Well, no, that's not how a market economy can function, that's the State's interference. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So if I'm an apple producer and I see that this year I'm going to have more, so I can't wait to have the equipment. Someone needs to guarantee their property. We learned or so they ran politics in agriculture for 24 years that they fully guaranteed someone else for me. There's no such thing in the market economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74651	Thank you very much. Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74652	Dude, we didn't get along. The two of us think the same thing, but we didn't understand each other. When I was talking about crates or boxing, so there are four, five or seven companies in Croatia, by Agrokor, by this, by the people who deal in ransom and guarantee and pay, but an excessive crop of apples, so Agrokor and all these companies that deal in ransom, and this producer, he never even provided crates, he got from those who buy it. And now what was I supposed to do? People didn't have money, it's a big expense to them, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Agriculture was supposed to order crates in Austria, give a guarantee that it would be paid tomorrow, guarantee just to give, don't pay, and they'll pay exactly these companies that were buying because they didn't have enough boxing at the given time, and that's why hundreds of tons of tons of them failed. It was just the ministry that had to do it. For all together, give a guarantee, and these buyers will pay for it eventually, that is, the one who taught the apple. It's a key question, which perhaps neither the current government nor it went through at given times the need for intervention has recognized, and you know how much? That was done for 15 days. In 15 days, thousands of tons of apples have failed, and I'm sorry there are no drinkers here because he has about 10, 15 acres to tell you about it. No one asked the ministry or the money, but only asked for that guarantee that someone would give 5,000 of these boxes so that apples could fit in the freezers. That's the key question, you know. The government wasn't supposed to give money, that's what every government at a given time, every ministry has to recognize as well. Or we get in position, we have an excessive offer of pigs, so why isn't the state intervening? Buy pigs from peasants, put them in coolers, stock reserves, and that's how we save a man. But then...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74653	Thank you very much. Thank you. They wouldn't put a pig in a freezer, would they, pal? I guess they wouldn't put a pig in a freezer. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour and Labour Party, Nansi Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74654	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I go, my colleague Lucic you said on Tuesday that you had a meeting about finding a model how, two meetings, how to help farmers overcome these financial problems, and perhaps just one suggestion, suggest for them also pre-fashion settlements, and if there are any pre-departure deals that would have been intended to preserve production and that those who have really gotten into problems because of their current business have the opportunity to get out of it. Today we've heard a lot about the draft rural development program, so we have to say the left and right side, which, if necessary, draws out certain facts. I would use this draft rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia just as an example to show why we are not doing well in agriculture, where we are wrong and whether we have not had a vision so far or a vision from now on. We'll all agree that we have big problems, that we don't know how and what, and that's why here's what I'm going to try through this debate. The draft rural development programme for the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 to 2020 should not have been approved by the European Commission because it did not go to the European Commission at all but went to informal consultation, and the formal reference of the programme itself is expected in May this year after the conclusion of the Partnership Agreement. It is therefore normal and correct for Croatia to communicate with the European Commission on how to find the best rural development programmes. It is true that the European Commission’s 331-page programme is also the fact that the European Commission has received a 327-page response and that this response in most cases consisted of little praise and a lot of objections. The unfavourable attitude of good versus bad for all of us must raise the question of whether we are sufficiently professional, capable of withdrawing the generous financial resources available to us as a member of the EU. In the Ministry of Agriculture, there are many people who have been negotiating with the EU since the start of negotiations, replaced by their positions elsewhere, who have placed some new people who have not taken part in the negotiation process themselves, and most likely is the fact that these people know less than those who have learned how the EU works for years and how support is shared. In continuity, we point to poor communication between the ministries where we spend a lot of energy, a lot of resources, and ultimately we have very bad or no results, and now that we have received the opinion of the European Commission, we have seen that there is also no good and quality communication in the single ministry, and this points to the European Commission's response that the programme, which has been submitted to itself, is the fact that no one in the Ministry of Agriculture has been assigned to the task of going to the European Commission to review it, to conclude it and to be serious to the European Commission and to show what we have and what we know. The European Commission calls us primarily for data inconsistencies, more conflicting figures on agricultural holdings, cattle throats, employees, hectares of agricultural land. In this single document, we take the right to mention a 1.3 million hectares of agricultural land, on another page we already have 2.7 million hectares of agricultural land. Table 22 shows that we have 1.1 million hectares, table 30 shows an area of 3.1 million hectares. And we heard today about some absurdity in our agriculture, and when we read this, we really have to ask ourselves if it's absurd, whether it's irresponsible and whether we're really allowed at this point in terms of agriculture and the development of agriculture in Croatia to make such big mistakes. The programme is rich in descriptive categories, but there are no analytical thinking and visions to be developed and where Croatian agrarian should be developed. This is what the European Commission warns us about. And on the trail of that obstacle before the previous government had a vision, there should be no more opposition in this House to say that the current government has no vision and should not be any populism, this is what the EU is now warning us in a specific case, at least in terms of agriculture. In the program, we mention balanced development but not how we will achieve it. We have concluded that we have a large population of old farmers compared to the EU average, but it remains unknown how we plan to resolve it. The European Commission is looking for an explanation of why a small number of agricultural economies suddenly fell in 2011, and from 2007 to 2010. What are the problems and obstacles facing the small economies of Croatia? We can say that when we listen to debates like this when we listen to suggestions whether they are amendments to 6 articles, 20 articles, 200 articles, or how many, very good theorists, but that we are extremely bad practitioners and extremely bad analysts. What we don't do is we don't analyze the existing situation, we don't analyze what we have and how much additional value we've received from the funds we've invested, no matter whether it's agriculture or another resort, we take the right to descend on personal obstacles and to respect each other's petty situations and personal problems at the expense of data we don't want or can't control. It was found that in 2011, there were less than 20 hectares, and only 7,000 more than 20 hectares. The economic impact of small businesses is very limited but their role in the local community in terms of contributions to rural areas, social cohesion, environmental and nature maintenance is very important, and we are forgetting all the time. It's obvious to us that a small entrepreneur, a small man, a man who invests his work, his energy, his money in something to feed himself and his family, means absolutely nothing anymore. We talk about big investments all the time, we talk about foreign huge capital that needs to come to Croatia one day, we don't talk about when it's going to be and whether it's going to be at all, but we're dreaming about us having big plans, and we're destroying what little we have. All the time, the same question is whether a large investment means new jobs, how much investment must be and what it must be to secure 50 or 100 new jobs. More than 3,000 and 500 OPGs were closed last year in the Republic of Croatia. The question is, where did they end up, how many debts they had left, which is why these OPGs closed down, which is with the members of their family who fed through this OPG, and these are the questions that the ministry of resolution together with all of us have to find the answer, and that is the only and correct policy that we can and should lead in this country. It also reminds us that it is not enough in the programme to indicate that we want to open up some kind of cow farm that will employ 50, 60 or 100 people, but that the programme needs to specify how many small farms we are thinking of opening up precisely in those rural areas from which citizens move out every day in which the demographic structure collapses and in which there is absolutely nothing. We don't do that. Agriculture is an extremely demanding resort. From agriculture, people always knew and could live. We now justify the fact that farmers are needed, that they are not ready for the new challenges that the European market poses before them, but I simply could not agree with that finding. The one who's been in agriculture all his life knows very well what agriculture means, follows agriculture because he lives out of agriculture. What is extremely disturbing to farmers today is that they will develop well, so - called farmers. the new marketing and the way they will sell their products. That state needs to do its job, that state has to have a strategy and that state has to say the way where and which products we can, we want and we want to place. It's a vision. For decades we have been talking about joining blue and green Croatia. We still haven't been able to do that. If tourism is a strategic branch, if we say from tourism that we live and that thanks to tourism we survive, then the question is why is it so difficult for the Ministry of Agriculture to bring a quality program that farmers could follow, where they would know that that product of theirs would be apples, strawberries or something else that would be able to place precisely for those tourists who come to Croatia during the summer or during the year. It's a quality government policy, it means having a vision, it means having a strategy and it means having a goal. As long as we are talking about support and we are not controlling these support we are doing damage to farmers themselves because there is unfair competition between them that is not good and which contributes to the fact that from day to day more and more of them are closing up. What the state can do and what it should do. The fact is that farmers are burdened by their power of law, regulations, and all that they need to satisfy in order to place that one of their own and even the smallest product on the market. For example, thanks to its strong trade unions, France has managed to ensure that HASAP, a hygiene system in the production of traditional food products, is no longer required. When are we going to do this in Croatia? When are we going to give that little cattleman who has 50 or 100 sheep and who lives out of those 50 and 100 sheep so that that milk can make sheep's cheese out there on Pag, Istria or anywhere else? No, in order for him to make cheese, that cheese can be placed first on the Croatian market and then on the European market must satisfy its strength of the law. There are millions of such examples. The fact is that Europe is working for its farmers and we still haven't been able to get to that stage where we could say that the Ministry of Agriculture is as a resolute ministry that needs to take care of farmers consciously the problems in which farmers are and that it is ready to have a vision, mission and goal as able managers, as people who know and need to lead agriculture to take us all together, along with farmers where we belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74655	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74656	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Tirelli, every word of yours is not to sign, but to every word of yours. Indeed, but you see, all this stuff you've been saying so specifically, honestly, and really pointing to problems is very annoying for people in the ministry. They're both leading and they're a little lower. It was very difficult, the difficulties in agriculture don't go back 20 to 23 years, and you might have noticed, somewhere between sentences they were read somewhere from far away, let's say, in the '30s, in the '40s. However, when someone prepares for power and wants to take one area, it is agriculture, then it is necessary to prepare for all years until it takes over. But he can't when he wins power like they did to really try to degrade and deplace and humiliate Croatian peasants, call him a thief, no use, no work. To undo everything that the former government has done well and then eventually to be late with everything. And you said well, a small agricultural holding for which the resolute minister at the beginning of his reign said we didn't need it at all, which they left in the ministry of his 4 or 5 deputies, one 8 assistants, the people who were on the negotiating team left. So what does that look like? So we keep saying, we really keep talking in good faith, and the intention of agriculture is too important, too important for two years for someone to do what they will and how they will humiliate the Croatian peasant, who they will blame for not being able to write in time, who they will blame at all for all the expensive and the whole situation. There's work to be done. But he can, and we once talked about who once, once planted in this Croatian country or any other country, let's say a flower bow and waited for it to grow. One who has no idea about practice can't run a farm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74657	Thank you. Fortunately, our peasants know more about agriculture than we do. Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74658	Thank you, colleagues of the twilight. Well, I wouldn't say maybe in that context that when you tell the truth that people in the Resar Ministry are pissed off. I think there are still good people, quality people who are ready and who really want to make a move for the better. We have to agree that we're not flexible. And we must also agree that we are three at the speed of carrying out certain actions that are necessary immediately, spotlessly, regardless of the European Union, regardless of the directives and regardless of the regulations because we have to take care of our citizens and then ourselves. We've warned here countless times that there's going to be a problem with CEFTA. No one has responded to that. We let it go, we turned to the European Union, we rub our hands so that we could get millions and millions of euros a year from the European Union, and now we don't need any other market. We've lost our exports, big systems have moved to other countries, they've hired their people there, we've lost profit tax, we've lost income tax. And these are things that shouldn't happen to us, and that's why it's extremely important and desirable that we all be objective in pointing to specific problems, not because we like that someone shows that there is a problem, but because we all need the goal to solve the problem, to respond to the problem and to save what is being saved from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74659	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74660	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Tirelli, it's hard to deal with the most successful government so far because it makes them into this position that we're listening to today, and that position is people's fault, we're listening to the peasant today, he doesn't know, he doesn't do it right, and they don't want to understand that the people will never be guilty. That's why politicians choose, and politicians are there to provide them with strategic documents in the long term, and governments are there to implement it in the short term. Unfortunately, wandering pays dearly. That's what we've been witnessing for these two years because no one wants to answer the question of where this country's future is. Are we all going to live in the city in 10 years, on asphalt and there create preconditions that we can survive life in this country, or is the future of this country in Ravni Kotari, Bukovica, Podravina, Slavonia, Lici, in islands. This must be answered because, looking at this strategy of rural development and regional development, we are being abolished by the Regional Development Act. PPDS, mountain-mounted areas, traffic isolating the rural area, removing railway lines, removing the incentives with which this rural development has developed, has reached the development of this urban part of the Republic of Croatia. And now we're surprised at the results and where we came from. You can't keep giving a large amount of incentive and suddenly end it. You destroyed billions before that, and no one asks where that damage is. Someone has to say where this country's future is. Unfortunately, this way always comes in position with this most successful government to keep saying the people are guilty. I hope the people react correctly, at the moment he sits at that table and takes his note in his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74661	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74662	Thank you. My friend, I'd rather say the people are tired than guilty of what's going on. We also need to consider talking about agriculture and farmers here today. What I have already said, I underline, and I will always say that farmers know how to do their jobs, that we have to listen to them, that we have to learn how and what to do and that, given their knowledge, we create a quality policy in such a way that what they do in the best and most qualitative way we manage to place in order to increase GDP and thus create and gain some new value. We don't have time to wander and what you're warning us to put an end to this, to take away what we've been doing all along, we're not co-ordinated. It cannot happen and must not happen that the Ministry of Agriculture does not know what the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds is doing. It must not happen that the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't know what the Ministry of Transport and Communications is doing because it's all about each other. We have to do everything possible where there is no railway to make that railway if we know that we want to develop agriculture in the long term and that these farmers will be dependent on the way in which, in which optimal time, they will deliver their products to the market as soon as possible and on which they will receive the money as soon as possible. So that's necessary, and we're witnessing that it's not happening. We hear contradictory statements every day from two resolution ministries, i.e. ministers on one issue at a time. It's what people are tired of, people don't know what to think anymore, and even less what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74663	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74664	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues Tyrelli, I agree with both you and Madam Vice President that farmers are educated and that they know very much and that they want to learn. I personally testify to that, so here are the days when we in local self-government units have taken certain activities to provide them with education, quality education for pesticides because there are no regulations, no framework. That's the problem, that's quite the problem. But I do not agree with you where you say 3500 family farms have fallen, more unfortunately, and today 10 will be ruined, and the European Commission is very important. And that's why it's a key point where you say about people's expertise, people who have to take care of this framework, people's expertise. This must be done in time, professionally, quality, communication, whatever we call it, because mistakes are inadmissible in the strategic branch of agriculture. Agriculture is constantly spoken as a strategic branch that has the potential to feed 25 million people. After those results that were posted where the production of milk, meat was increased, all these operational programs in some way raised. Now we've come where we are, now we're here and now we're crying for spilled milk, I'm going to do it again, it's hard but I don't think either one, or the smallest one... and the inaction in time that's an additional way into the abyss, and I'm afraid it can't go on. Now, that's terrible, and that's the bitter truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74665	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74666	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague, let's say, in a contradictory situation. On the one hand, we have peasants who are practitioners, but they're not theorists, and on the other hand we have laws that know theory and don't practice. And now we've come to, say, a situation. Recently, on a show in the morning, there was an early story about how our farmer had to lay down a certificate so he could work with a chain saw on his family farm. That's what he's been doing all his life. So, he knows how to turn on a saw, he knows how to copy a tree, he knows how to do whatever he needs to do, but he doesn't have a certificate. For that certificate he must spend not only money but what is extremely important, he must spend his time. While he is training theoretically how to light a saw, how to use herbicide, pesticide, how to drive a tractor, how to turn that tractor, how deep the plow must be large, shallow or deep in view of the culture it sows. He's got cows or anything else standing somewhere in the barn and they need him. And the question now is how to align that theory with this practice, that is, this other story, practice with theory. So these are the things that we have to take care of, which increase the cost of costing products and make us in a certain situation uncompetitive. Because time is money. If I'm not where I'm supposed to be, then it costs something, and then we install it in our own product that, in that case, becomes more expensive than someone else who doesn't need a certificate or something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74667	And on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74668	My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Deputy Minister of Agriculture. The law on support in agriculture and rural development is such a fine topic to discuss agriculture. As we can see, there are different thinkings about agriculture, but now that I've been thinking about this, then I come to a conclusion. For years we've been talking about incentives, we're talking about support, when it comes to rebalancing, when it comes to budgets, we're talking about big numbers. Is it 6 billion during last government year for incentives, is it now slightly less during this government how many budgetary opportunities they allow or some policies see it that way. Mostly when we take the average that's 4 billion kuna a year that we've singled out for agriculture and we multiply it by 10 years back about 40 billion, we've given some of my rough judgments a boost. And then I like one thesis, he says, if we shut down the borders for a year we'd be hungry, if we banned all the products we'd finally be hungry of this vast amount of our agricultural production and large resources, the budgets that we've put into agriculture over the years. And to start from the beginning to the analysis there were very good discussions that actually said the point. We had a ten-year-old farm land distribution programme, so the idea of dividing the country, to enable the purchase of land, the county estates, the creations of the OPGs that would then be individual producers on the market that would then be coupled with some big systems to deal with all of this and what we came up with. We have come to this, we have come to the conclusion that there have been many who have never bought agricultural land in this programme, or at their disposal, and the pervasive purchase of land has entered this whole story, and they have bought in various ways hundreds of hectares. I've got people in my area who have over a thousand acres of land and I don't mind that. But it bothers him not to hire anyone but himself and his son or his brother. And to remind, once, the cooperative had 100 acres of land, hired 30 workers and accountants and porters and disabled people and this tractorist and everyone was happy, happy. And this one for a thousand has no obligation to hire anyone but himself. That doesn't work then. There's something wrong with the whole concept. We gave the concessionaries under the bagatella land. Today is a concession of 450 kuna for 30 years, please. So it's not hard to be a smart agricultural producer with a 450 kuna concession annually and receive an annual 300-euro boost to that same concession. The math is pretty much clear. It doesn't take a lot of sense for that thing. The question also arises how reduced the revenues of local self-government with such a low concession, how damaged the state budget is with such a low concession, and the question of correct relations arises, the farmer pays 1200 kuna and the rent for the same country pays 450 kuna. These are things we've never wanted to talk to in the open. We've been dealing with some things, so we know about why it failed. Strong plantations are up. My county, with the help of the state, has become the most fruit-making and County of Osijek-Baranja, by the budget. Hundreds and hundreds of acres of apples, plums, etc. All that more or less goes down today. Why is it going down? For practical reasons. If the apple is one on the market, it should be the first class of two and a half kunas, and it was not paid 2 and a half kunas to that producer, but the buyer pays, estimated as a second class, pay the kuna 20, and from the state it received subsidies as a buyer 80 limes per kilogram. In the end, it is said that this producer works for the kuna and 20 apples, this redeemer gets from a ransom subsidy and this final one, this trader takes on 10 kunas and where, where is the motive of a man to deal with some things that we basically put in the idea well. I mean, it's not about incentives, it's not about incentives, it's about the market, we haven't created the market, we've made all assumptions, we've invested a lot of money, we've hired a lot of people, we've pawned a lot of private assets to banks in the whole project, but we haven't created a market. when we had to point and end the story in the end then we left everything behind and the market is what it is and it led us to an absolute devastation of the OPG category. Furthermore, the OPGs today are highly underrated, they can no longer raise loans in banks, commercial banks are no longer interested in the story of agriculture. The OPGs cannot compete equally with all in the loans of HABOR state bank, I do not know if you know but the OPGs cannot compete for HABOR credit funds because of their organisational form, they refer to commercial banks, commercial banks reject them and, of course, the OPGs cannot compete for EU funds either. I have not met another case that some small, average OPG man has received some EU funds. I don't have a case like that. Somebody defuse me. And it's a shame that these OPGs, if they employ themselves, the bearer, one army employed by 100,000 employees, who, if these OPGs shut down, go to the unemployment category and go to the labour market, go to the bureau, take the burden of the country's budget. We turned our backs and we didn't end things the way we were supposed to and the intention was good. I have three questions, the first question about budgets, the first question about whether we've ever gotten the information about how much in the structure of the annual spent incentives, which are the biggest users, so we're going to come to the conclusion that an ordinary little man is only in a small percentage of the total mass that is allocated from the state budget. It's interesting to see who the biggest users of these incentives are. Likewise, he never answered the question of why the category was never related to the incentives of so-called reference yields. It's amazing that you can get some money from a budget per hectare without having to show the state how much you've produced for that money, if that's 300 euros per hectare, for the cheapest culture, for the wheat, then someone should have said, gentlemen, if you're going to get 300 euros per hectare to the state, you have to show the production of so many tons of wheat. No one's ever done that. And the category of the reference contribution is one perfectly normal category that used to be the usual thing in calculating agricultural yields. And my third question is, I don't understand it for a couple of years now, we're always talking about winemaking as some kind of exclusive agricultural production that's related to tourism, etc. Do we know that three years ago we don't have a single kuna of incentives in the viticulture sector? It is the only production in agriculture that the state no longer encourages, not by any kuna, not by any form. It is all referred to in some European funds, to envelopes that will be when they are. We haven't been stimulating winemaking in three years, and we know that 2015 is the deadline when we have the right to raise ourselves. So we consciously blocked ourselves in 2015, no more raising permanent plantations, there are only reconstructions and we haven't worked until these three years to increase the plantations and we want to be competitors of California, Chile where there are no serious producers without a few hundred acres of rainfall. And I don't really understand why the only culture that doesn't come from this moment in the country is vineyarding and would like to answer that question. And now I'd just like to say a few short sentences about how it all looks in the EU. Thus, European authorities adopted the 2014-2020 Strategy and the common agricultural policy envisions around 373 billion euros in funding during that period. That is about 13% lower in the previous period 2007-2013. But what is interesting is what is now the strategy for the distribution of these funds is, in principle, the establishment of a balance between the EU space, most of these funds should go to countries in Eastern Europe or countries that have recently joined the EU, the last round of accessions. Of course we're here, so are we. At the end of the whole strategy, all countries will have to reach a minimum amount of 196 euros per hectare-based incentives. It's good for our public to know, so by 2020 we'll have to get into a 196-euro boost per hectare. And just a few examples of what it looked like in Poland, Hungary and France. In Poland, for direct support approximately 185 euros per hectare is allocated in the first year of membership, which 80% were then the EU average and their goal is to reach 240 euros per hectare by 2015. What's interesting about Poland is that it is now increasingly exporting dairy products and exports to the EU, Russia, Turkey, etc. It's very, very close to us because we know what our dairy industry is in. Facts say the same interesting thing that nine years after EU accession Poland is no longer flooded with Western Europe's products, practically most of the consumption is from its own production. In Hungary, only larger agricultural economies were exploited in the European Programmes, and up to 45% of the grants for projects such as fertiliser management and 25% for modernisation of infrastructure, the Hungarians managed to implement or withdraw in some way. But what is also characteristic of Hungary is that the import of fruit and vegetables is increasing 25% annually back several years. Therefore, this market crisis in our country is obviously not our exclusivity, that it is characteristic for other countries as well. In France, there is concern about the loss of income due to the internal convergence imposed by the EU, so that grain producers fear that they would be much less in the rest of the other European countries, so that they should receive around 180 euros per hectare from 2014 to 2020, and so far receive 239 euros. This only speaks of the fact that support in the EU has been significantly reduced in relation to what was expected, so it is not only our expectations but the expectations in the old EU countries and the the thesis that this part of the support is moving primarily to the east, but also behind that in some analyses, it is said why it is because most of the agricultural resources of these eastern countries are mainly Western European corporations. According to this, money from Brussels is being sent east, and is returning through the ownership structures of Western corporations, returning back to the West. And that is obviously one logic as to how the funds for support in agriculture and in the EU work. The fact is, it's a general assessment that the goal is not to increase the number of economies as we think it is, but to increase their size and one thesis for the end. What is a general assessment in the EU if you do not increase, you disappear, so it should be some kind of light motive and our strategies in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74669	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74670	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, I agree with your exposure, so to speak. You've come off nicely from the incentives, and I agree that maybe six billion or five and a half, as far as it wasn't controlled enough, but we need to know one thing. When we put ourselves into it, when we gave people credit, when people were in charge, we had to support them at the level of work, we should not have allowed repressive measures to remove prices, above all in the dairy industry, milk, all of those products that are related to any production. And also in warfare, we didn't do, so on the contrary, in the lack of money, which is why the government didn't know where to find the item and replace agriculture, we destroyed exactly what we were talking about. Incentives yes, everything is well imagined, and only that we kept them so that they could function, as I was saying about these loans, that there was understanding, however what? We repressively downloaded the prices and, of course, the man when he came into a position not to be able to repay the loans, but he can't even work, feed his family because we went below the level of that minimum. The best indicator is I can back it up. Milk. So we had Dukat, we don't have him anymore. Who came in? They were elbowing in DUKAT, as the owner, the French company. We have Vindy and what happened? Well, they invented a bacteria called aflotoxin overnight. Aflotoxin exists in Germany and France and in all EU countries, but what else are we doing? So we in Croatia prescribe laws more stringent than they are in the EU. Instead of acting as an emergency as we speak today, urgently, urgently, at a given moment, if 15 days have passed, you can no longer read apples, they have fallen to the ground and almost, no longer the first class. So we had to act urgently so that it wouldn't happen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74671	Thank you very much. The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74672	... You've opened up a series of questions here, it's hard to answer this line at all, but the bottom line is to me in the next. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Storage Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone.]] The incentives are, of course, something that we see and the EU is necessary for agriculture as a strategic branch to produce food for the nation, to simplify it. At one time, they were a social category for most of the population, agriculturals, but God was the subject of enormous wealth for individuals. We can't say it's not like that. And these incentives are something without which agriculture doesn't work, but we don't have anything because we don't have the market, we built everything, we built plantations, we bought modern wildlings, we bought, we raised farms, we made European standards for dairy cows, but we don't have a market. I've got two, three private farms shut down because these people don't have that milk to sell to. Or sell it at a price. Therefore, at the price of the price, that milk is purchased. The data says that for one liter of milk you can, you have 4 liters of packing in the store, of one liter of milk. Then everything is said, and that liter of milk is now down to a minimum that is not worth working on. So the price of buying milk is now such that it's not worth doing that thing, that's why they're farming and shutting down. ... And that's why they need incentives, but incentives are a means of extinguishing fire, we're talking about system stuff. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We need to systematically arrange something to make this thing work, so that whoever makes something, at least the peasant doesn't have a problem working, but the problem that nobody buys anything. No problem doing 20... pigs, sometimes bought it in one day and a peasant could once two houses of 15 acres of land from... build.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74673	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74674	Thank you very much. So, fellow Horvat, when you change a peasant's business terms several times a year, it simply fails. Who survives? They only remain the most persistent, the most tough, and the most resourceful. It's today's story. When you tell him you'll bring the budget, you bring it in, you'll give him 100 by the rules, and then after two months you say you'll give him 20, he's done, he's gone, he's got plans of the state then if we talk about incentive and he can't work anymore. When you change his tax policy, when you threaten him with repressive measures, by machine, you punish him, when you simply don't listen to him give up. No problem in the country they will survive, they will not be hungry but simply become passive and do not want to create added value because they themselves are creating losses. You're saying we don't have a market, so on one side of the product, on the other side of the shelf, so let's connect it. Why doesn't any government want to connect, so let's share the incentive between the merchants and the peasants, so the one that manufactures has a safe placement, and not that we happen to know that in the season, we eat tomatoes from the Spanish 4th category. No one is able to provoke Croatian production, as much as we can produce it annually to create incentives based on these parameters, divide them and place the product even in tourism for the most part. We're just constantly at the story level, the state is selling us some stories about nanotechnology, and in three years we won't even know how to plant potatoes on mine, and I don't think it's good for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74675	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74676	Well, I agree with you fellow Boric, you're probably right to talk for good purposes like everyone else here. But when we analyse this whole agricultural situation, then we find one thing common ground, the price of globalisation is what it is. You can't ban today some big trading house that has a chain of sales to buy cheaper goods in Romania, to buy apples cheaper. Now is the state ready to set out... or some other fiscal measures of this matter redecorate that's another question and we need to talk about these things. But the fact is that as a small country as a small economy, as a small farm at the moment, we are paying a severe price for the rules of the harsh global market in the EU, and we need to prepare ourselves slightly differently and more seriously, not only to conduct demagogue discussions from law to law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74677	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74678	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, I agree in one part with your debate, but here's a few things I'd like to tell you. I got the impression at the beginning when you were talking about agriculture in general that agriculture had been destroyed for 15 years. So I'd just like to say in a hurry, a systematically destroyed Croatian peasant or peasant and Croatian agriculture back in '46 or the seventh with 1st agrarian reform and tied to the ground when the fear of a rich peasant was so terrible that the country was taken away, distributed to every piece of land, everyone had little nobody had much, took everything away from him, and such a peasant sent his children to the city was a shame. Well, we're going to skip that one period now to the Homeland War when our oran is all mine pollution, the stock fund is destroyed and what should be done here now. We can really talk about aids, subsidies that some may not have been completely spent on purpose, but without these and such support and subsidies, that agriculture and the peasant would not have raised, we would have nothing today. You were talking about fruit growing, we were talking about apples, so look at it built or it was built in the vineyard of 10 thousand new acres of vineyards, and with the then 20 we now have 30, so 10 thousand modern new orchards were planted so that these same apples or these fruits would be prepared by a subsidized 12 ULO coolers that could accommodate 400 thousand tons of fruit, which is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74679	Thank you very much. The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74680	Comrade twilight, I agree with you that without these incentives there wouldn't be this level of agriculture that we have now, so we wouldn't have had that either if the state hadn't directed to encourage it. But I mean, the system stuff has to be set up in a way for the peasant to be a producer, let's not make the peasants a commercialist, marketing chief, propaganda, accountant and the least peasants, and he's doing it today. The farmer of five working days is three days by banks, by ZAP, by accounting, etc. At least he's a peasant. Sometimes we figure out how we want to do it, but I speak from my experience, my uncle was a peasant and he had 20 bulls on the tour, a man came from the vans took over, paid and God made you happy, so it was with the pigs, so the grapes were taught in the winery. It's an amazing story that nobody's interested in it today. Where these great producers, why there's no cooperative like it used to be, so it's no wisdom at all, why there's no interest in buying what's produced in Baranja, why there's something from Romania, something from Ukraine, and it's standing there for five kilometers next to it, I'm talking about it. No one's slowing down everything that's been invested in agriculture for the past few years. Of course there are positive effects, of course the village has risen, of course the intention was good. I'm saying why we stopped and why we didn't work out the basic thing, and that's the segment of the market and let the peasant work, sell peacefully and get paid fairly. There's nothing left for a peasant, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74681	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74682	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Horvat came forward for a simple reason that, listening to these discussions today, we unfortunately don't see agriculture as economic activity. And here everyone talks about incentives as some kind of social category. Incentives are not a social category, they are a market category. And with encouragement, he simply wants to help someone be competitive. However, we must understand that it is only one small segment. At that moment until we realize that a lot of people have to join together to get both protective chemicals and seeds and this and that to come to a lower price, and therefore to a competitive cost of production, unfortunately we will wander as we wander. What I'd also like to say. If an apple, let's say, fails 40% of the crop because you have no one to deliver it to for industrial, but only deliver a consumer apple, the price and your apple cannot possibly cover that cost of production for you, nor can you earn it. Secondly, if you sell that apple at a time when it is the cheapest on the market and at the same time in the 2nd month when it is, or the 3rd time, when it is the highest price you sell an apple from Poland or from somewhere else that is more than the Croatian apple, then the Croatian farmer is simply an unequal position. But there's something that's worrying, and no one's said it here for days. Take a look at the statistical indicators that grow in the exporting parties in Croatia, the export of beef. And you know why? We, not us, but our farmers have slaughtered 30,000 male cows in the last year and closed down 2,000 farms. Now, colleagues and colleagues, you know what it means to rebuild those 30,000 milk cows in the future? We've practically cut our own milk production for the next 5 or 10 years that we'll be competitive at all and that's our problem. And these milk cows and those farms were the product of various incentives and support from the state budget. So what do you say today, then?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74683	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74684	Of course, fellow Shuker that's what you say and the result of that will be devastated by that milk fund and it's already devastated for the future. And it's just proof of how much you're approaching this whole problem without any significant strategy and no big planning. When you talked about selling apples, of course the economic category, the price was more favourable when sold for Christmas holidays than when sold in the harvest day. But what is a key question is where an ordinary man who has a few acres of that plant will be able to solve this systematically differently where he will keep it until the 1st month. So there's nowhere to keep. There's only one redeemer in our space, one serious freezer, now only the other is built. So this one serious redeemer is just by blackmailing these producers himself, those orchards, and determining the price itself. Because you have to store it within 3 days or 5 days of harvesting if not at minus 4 she's failed whether she's like that, or plus 4, it doesn't matter. So these people who had the privilege of getting to the coolant in some way, they turned out to be smarter than the ones that deal with primary production, they turned out to be smarter. Well, obviously, it was more important to invest in some kind of hall that was relatively easy and cheaply made and a cooling device was put in place than to work hard there for 12 months in an orchard, vineyard or anywhere. That order, the size, is disturbed with us, and that's not good. That's the thing I'm pointing out is that the worst thing goes by with us is the primary producer instead of putting him in a different relationship, a different treatment in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74685	Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74686	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, here is not a year after we passed the Law on Support, Agriculture and Rural Development, we already have amendments and additions to that law. If the aim is to enable the payment of support to the village and farmers, then we will be happy to support it. Regardless of all these changes, the Croatian village and agriculture were cut off during this government by billions of kunas, i.e. one annual budget for agriculture. Instead of a possible 6 billion kuna, only half of that amount was paid for the Croatian village and agriculture. In three years of this government in 2012, '13. And in '14. For direct payments it was paid or planned to pay 6 billion kuna while during the previous government it was also in three years in '09, '10. And '11. for direct payments paid 8 billion and 500 million kuna. The continuation of this year's practice when from the possible amount for direct payments that support income farmers from not leaving agriculture paid a billion and 700 million kuna, means one third of what is unsustainable for our agriculture. If this trend continues, Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture will simply disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74687	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74688	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Horvat, you said one thing, I noticed a quote where you said the OPGs were underrated and you see in Europe they're appreciated. So they now ask this of theirs, on their 270 pages, which is with the OPGs. But I want to say one more thing that the OPGs are effective, they've shown their effectiveness, I'm going to talk about the part that I know little more about and that's livestock, dairy. You're talking about war, maybe you wouldn't even talk, but my colleague Maric said, "You have to do a little milking too." But why? These are all indicators in favour of the increased milk production, etc.. And now, of course, people have entered certain credit arrangements at a certain time, increased production, made new stables and suddenly came, the buyers cut the price by so much and so much, the support is cut by so much. So I'm asking you, anyone here, that a big company with us would be deprived of funds all of a sudden, that their income would fall by so many percentages that he could manage to survive. Of course it's hard. And what happened? There's been a drop in milk production and now these buyers feel it, and now they're going to the manufacturer to say now we're offering you this... and these are getting organized. In my municipality, which is a dairy fin is that for 10 years it is the establishment of a congregation of producer organizations. We'll go over that part three times so we can. Now the redeemers show up, now they're offering and giving, of course, to get him into that system better. Another thing you said about withdrawing funds from European funds. It's exactly what you said, but they have a great desire, I've participated in a presentation of whose opportunities, so much interest is great, but here you see now there's no, there's no again, there's a stop, and whoever survives will talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74689	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74690	Thank you. I will only answer my fellow dearly esteemed, so milking is one serious topic. I, when making some kind of partnership with the countries of the European Union today, highlighted the example of Poland. At one point, Poland had a devastating fact that some 300,000 agricultural households had failed because they had an insufficient amount of land. Meanwhile, in the past 8 years, Poland has become one of the major milk exporters in the European Union. So my suggestion is let's take a look at the experiences of these countries, let's look at the model of what people do, how they came from a low scale to become exporters, to one Germany export their milk. So obviously there's no secret here, it's just a question of whether we want to analyze the societies we've now entered. The European Union is our reality, inevitability, has its strict rules and let's study these rules, not only through these formal-legal strategies but the essence of how production works, how the market of those 500 million people I say again has very sharp rules, and if we don't quickly adapt to it, not just a peasant will disappear, and many other things will disappear, other values in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74691	The closing word of Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74692	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Thank you for the quality debate and I will try to answer a part of the question that has been asked here, but first of all, before I go in general, don't be offended, but I have the impression that we don't know what it says in the accession agreement on agriculture, regarding the presentation of individual parliaments. I don't think that's right for our agricultural producers because they should be sending information from this home that's in the accession contract that our negotiating teams agreed on in a very long run of negotiations. Some things have been negotiated for a long time, so I'm surprised we're talking about some things like we're in negotiations and they're still going on. The Republic of Croatia has made commitments as the 28th member state by concluding its accession treaty, and this government and the Ministry of Agriculture will implement them according to what it says in the contract, which refers to agriculture. Here's so much intro. Regarding livestock, the dairy sector, so I'll try to remind you that milk per litre was agreed for the previous years to pay off an incentive of 0.92 kuna per litre of milk. In 2012 in a conversation with the European Commission, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Republic of Croatia had an obligation to abolish the market share of that part relating to 0.42. I know that it's a lot for farmers to talk about a liter of milk and it's left with the amount agreed in the 3-year accession contract, and that's 0.50 kuna per litre. Of course, that's almost twice as much as it was in the last few years. In addition, as you know by the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of States, the Ministry of Agriculture cannot determine the price, in particular that we have constitutional decisions of the Constitutional Court that individual rules must be put out of force, to which the State has prescribed prices. So we don't have any more room for maneuvers, we can't intervene. As regards fruit and wine, the question of the vine has been raised here, it is true that the Ministry of Agriculture has had the support to encourage purchases of apples, grapes and Mandarins, however, it is also a measure that has not been in line with the common agricultural policy and since 2012 the Ministry has no longer been allowed to implement the measure that is not in line with the CAP. So, we have tried and worked on it together at meetings with the county, the mayors of the Ministry of Agriculture were called, and we thank the Agriculture Committee together at the the thematic sessions where we discuss and analyze the problem. At the level of advice at the Ministry of Agriculture, the way we can find the best way to help agricultural producers as part of these frameworks defined by the accession agreement, but also by the regulation. With respect to 6 billion kuna support, I would only remind once again that the accession contract to the Republic of Croatia provides for direct payments of 373m euros. I don't know if it's six billion kunas. Maybe someone can explain it to us in some class. But 373m euros are very easy to calculate how much it is related to accession contracts. The second part of 333m euros is secured for the rural development programme. And when we add those two together again, we don't get to the amount of six billion kuna. So, I don't know if I'm saying calculations should be considered. About the rural development program. So, I'll do it again, don't blame me. So, colleagues at the Ministry of Agriculture and people who worked on the programme and the Ministry of Agriculture sent a program to consultations before there was a legislative framework. So, in last year's summer, nine months. We heard that the legislative framework at European Union level, so the European Parliament and the Council entered into force on 17.12.2013. And instead, we at the Ministry of Agriculture are proud that people and the administration have given the maximum, that on the basis of drafts and regulations and guidelines, they have done that part of the job, that we have received comments and that we are among the first countries to fix the programme based on comments, and we are confident that we will call this year a competition for the rural development programme. So, let me put it this way, we don't want to send a message to the administration that they're being punished because we from the Ministry of Agriculture were creative, innovative, that they took the initiative and went towards the agriculture ministry, first of all, towards the European Commission in unofficial consultations to get their answer as soon as possible. Therefore, the European Commission means not only the home administration of DG agra but also a very large second number of general administrations. One of them is environmental protection. As regards guarantees and I don't know yet insurance houses, so according to the Treaty of Accession, the Republic of Croatia can use state support in the transitional period of 3 years, meaning 2013, 2014 and 2015. Fifteenth is the last year in which we as a state can pay state support to farmers. By then, we will, together with other Member States, prepare for state aid or State aid in agriculture, legal framework and on advice, to bring it to the attention of the Member States. On milk, I'm still going back to milk now, and I'd like to say that however difficult it is for milkmen to open new dairy. I'll remind those who don't know. So, in the Djurjevac milkmaker that was closed and which did not work, it means buying. We have a new dairy company, people are employed, milk is purchased from agricultural producers in the area, mini-milkers are opened, mini-siranes are opened. We are convinced that with the rural development programme, both our part on islands and the merger of that blue green line will be expressed. Because on the Milk Councils, we have a lot of questions about just the little sirens and little milkmen. I will repeat that this was part of the negotiations concerning the hygiene package, the veterinary area, the administration known to veterinarians, colleagues at the Ministry of Agriculture as DG Sanko and part of the matter is, in fact, a large majority agreed in negotiations with the European Commission. What we are trying to do now is to reduce these control lists in joint work and reduce the number of issues because they are really overcomplicated and a large number of technical conditions are unnecessarily prescribed for small farms, which the Ministry of Agriculture is not interested in. As far as small farms are concerned, why are two thousand, I can't, I'm sorry, someone asked a question. Why did 2011 fall significantly? I will remind them significantly of the amendment to the Insurance and Contribution Act where, for this reason, a large number of defenders and pensioners emerged from the Register of Agricultural Economics because there was no support for agricultural production if they were entitled to any of these grounds. And that's the thing we're trying to explain to the European Commission what happened in 2011. About 7,000 economies and there were different numbers, small agricultural holdings. I'd just pull the parallel. Therefore, since 2004, when a reference laboratory for testing the quality of milk was established and the initial number of agricultural holdings of 48000 which were then producing milk at the beginning of 2012 was 12000. So, in that period, 30,000 of some farms in which there were two, three, or one cow simply stayed as such. But there was no animal inside. It is true that these agricultural holdings could be helped to retain if they do not produce milk, produce fresh cow cheese and place it on local markets. Regarding the organisation of the market through the rural development programme, the Ministry of Agriculture will give an emphasis on the young agricultural economies just as one of the respected representatives said because of the ageing households in rural areas and the initiative to include young people in agricultural production and the emphasis will also be on small agricultural economies because we are lucky that the Republic of Croatia and was diverse so we have our beautiful Slavonia, Podravina, Northwest Croatia, we have our seas and islands where indeed agricultural areas are small. They are thus made for the configuration of the terrain with terraces and a specific way of agricultural production, and for this reason we also want to give an emphasis on small agricultural economies. The additional emphasis will be on the vision of quality schemes and branding of agricultural products and agricultural production, which you actually saw from the inscription in the newspaper. So, in the last two years, the Ministry of Agriculture has put forward a number of requests for the protection of indigenous products, and for the vast majority of them a European-level protection procedure has also been launched. We're talking about 15 products. There are 8 more products in the process, and I think that this is the direction that our agricultural producers can find on the EU market that counts over 500 million inhabitants and through the rural development programme will finance a measure aimed at quality schemes and the preparation of documentation and co-financing of costs to agricultural producers so that they can join and achieve more significant production and protect their agricultural production, so that they are not only producers of raw materials but also producers of products with additional value. So, as far as analysts are concerned, I can only say more about the production of consumer balances. Therefore, until 2012, the Ministry of Agriculture had a production consumption balance for agricultural products only for 2009. A year. It is aware that this is being prepared for the rural development programme but also for other studies, the Ministry of Agriculture has set out in the production of food sectoral balance sheets. They are prepared for 2010 and 2011 in public probably and known as self-sufficient means something to define the priorities and sectors in which investment is to be invested, those to be supported more significantly. As regards the issues raised for the reference contribution, I don't think there is any parliamentary representative but I can repeat it again, so under the contract, I pledge to represent a common agricultural policy for all Member States is translated according to the single regulation and it has not prescribed that the incentive be linked to production or to a reference contribution. We cannot prescribe something like one of the Member States that has no other countries. With regard to vineyarding, I'm surprised that viticulture is actually here and based on the accession contract, it has its 11.7m-euro wine envelope annually, a tender for the implementation of measures under the national programme has been launched. Last year's national programme was approved by the European Commission. I don't understand that there's no incentive in winemaking, I may have misunderstood, but vineyarding is really one of the sectors that doesn't have the incentive but has its own envelope as everyone has to do with direct payments. As regards the budget, who are the biggest users, I think the ministry has several times and made statements, but I can find myself on the website of the paying agency by years so that whoever is interested in the public can find these data and related to the creation of the market and related to incentives I would only say once more that there were sometimes incentives for the import of cattle, that by harmonising with the provisions of the common agricultural policy, these incentives are abolished, that it is related to the creation of the market once more the Ministry of Agriculture as well as all other ministries of the other Member States are obliged to implement the common Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the organisation of the markets of agricultural products, the single organisation of the market in which the state, as I have already said in the introduction of the Ministry, cannot impose prices and cannot be expected to intervene with the purchases not prescribed by that regulation. Here's hoping I answered all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74693	Thank you very much. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74694	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, ma'am, you said the MPs obviously don't know what's in the accession agreement. What I would like to commend on this amendment to the law is that you have admitted that the farm envelope is well negotiated, so it says in this opening part of the assessment of the situation. Now, whether the MPs know or not what the accession agreement says, we could discuss it a lot, but the fact is whether people in the ministry know what it says in the accession contract, which is in that envelope because if they do, then we can ask ourselves why we did not take advantage of the possibility that virtually no country had of Croatia, as it did for agriculture to pay off incentives, which are related to the difference between payments from the state budget. We may not know exactly what it says, but here's what those who know, farmers around this law say. The problem with this bill is that it has shown that until the last moment it was not meant for environmental producers, producers of integrated production and all those who live and work in areas with difficult management conditions. If they need support, why are we now giving it, if they need no support, and the whole of Europe is giving its farmers such support, who has forgotten about our farmers so far? It's 162 million kunas they got in 2012. It has also forgotten the preservation of endangered original protected breeds of domestic animals and endangered original protected species and crops of agricultural plants. Insurance of possible agricultural damage. Are they lying?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74695	Thank you. Replication response, Snowy Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74696	Thank you very much. So I'll repeat, I haven't told everyone, and I apologized for the knowledge of the accession contract, but if someone was talking about agriculture, farmers who listen to this, I think we should and I'm confident, saying what it says and what it's agreed to, telling them the truth. As regards organic production, ecologically integrated and all measures are national rural development measures for 2013 and we have now agreed on an amendment to this law for 2014, we are talking about integrated, executive and protected, ecological and all those that are numbered. So by amending this law we allow the ecological and all these producers related to the rural development programme from the national part to submit a request to be paid back in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74697	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74698	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, we are aware that the negotiations are complete and that the chapter is well negotiated, it is a good framework and we know that in this context the rules are as they are within the common agricultural policy, it is clear to us all, but we want to point out the problem that is in the jurisdiction of you, the ministry, in which part can be helped. In that part I'm thinking, and that's why I'm glad that you specifically looked back at dairy, the dairy industry, it's very important to me because I'm the only one here that's been a freak so far, they're talking, they're talking, they see that only about milk and cows talking. I'm sorry these 30,000 cows ended up on a forced slaughter. You're also aware of your attempts to raise that support for those 27 Lips so they didn't accept it, you're also aware that now that with this model of loaning the heifer, but I want to tell you that it's not easy, that it can't be restored overnight when it starts, it's 5, 6 years to revitalize it. So it's all clear and there's a certain potential, and there's no need to let that happen, I warned you about that. For no other reason, all this stuff that he's saying now is that it's supposed to be preserved and preserved. And secondly, as for these 333 million rural developments, you said there would be a competition this year, but I'm afraid, what was at the presentations at the ministry recently, you saw yourself as much of an interest, what is the desire of these people and the expertise of people and consultants who are aware to accept it, but I'm afraid this year is difficult, if all this is over. You know how agriculture works? She won't, she won't in November, December, we won't plant corn or any of the other cultures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74699	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74700	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 624. The debate on the final draft law is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments within the business period, so they became an integral part of the final bill. I therefore put the final draft of the law to the vote. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes are 81 votes in favour and 20 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74701	We will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on International Restriction Measures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 623 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee, his report was received at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Foreign and Home Affairs Ministers and European Affairs, pardon Mr. Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74702	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. You therefore have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on International Restriction Measures. As a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia is implementing international EU restrictive measures within the framework of the common foreign and security policy. In addition to EU autonomous restrictive measures, Croatia also applies sanctions established by UN Security Council resolutions taken over by the EU. Let me remind you that the basis of the law was passed in 2008, this law created a framework for the adoption of EU legal rules in the area of international restrictive measures in our positive legal system. In accordance with the said law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made appropriate decisions imposing certain restrictive measures on certain natural and legal persons, entities and countries, and in accordance with the decisions and regulations of the Council of the EU. Today, you have before you the law amending and supplementing the Law on International Restriction Measures, which will ensure that EU rules are applied directly. By joining the EU, all EU legal regulations in the area of restrictive measures have become an integral part of the internal legal system of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, the reasons for the introduction and adaptation of certain EU rules into national legislation in the form of individual decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have ceased. It was also necessary to establish the national authority responsible for the implementation of financial sanctions by entering the EU. For the competent authority, this law proposes the Ministry of Finance in accordance with existing practice in EU Member States. This law also regulates the possibility to adopt regulations by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as implementing sublaws in cases where EU rules provide for the regulation of certain issues at Member State level. In the case of measures limiting arms embargoes and prohibiting entry into a country which is not explicitly regulated at EU level, it is necessary to transfer at Member State level in an appropriate manner binding decisions of the EU Council in relation to the above two issues. The practices of other Member States differ in the way they enter their legal system. Due to the frequent dynamics of the decision-making of the EU Council, we consider this issue appropriate to address the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. This law fully aligns the national legal system with the EU acquis in the area of the implementation of international restrictive measures. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of Article 206(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Members of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have proposed the adoption of this law in an urgent manner, in accordance with the provisions of Article 206(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for particularly justified reasons of compliance with EU regulations and documents in the area of application of restrictive measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74703	Thank you very much. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74704	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Here's a very short one. On behalf of the HDZ Club, of course we support this law, given that it is a matter such as the promoter said rounding the EU acquis on this very important part of the EU's functioning. I think what we will be particularly interested in implementing this law, which is the availability of data relating to the applicability of sanctions or restrictive measures. We have different practices here by country, and so far we have applied the restrictive measures that would have been adopted at EU level, but if we go from country to country we will see that there is one way in which these data are made available to citizens and to all interested economic operators, especially to be able to see in one place what sanctions are in force, when they are adopted, which Croatia applies all of them. So as far as the total part is concerned, we have already brought about the negotiations on the EU accession process of the Treaty on restrictive measures somewhere in 2010. Now, of course, given the status of a full member, it all gets one new dimension. However, here is my suggestion to the Proposer to consider, and we have already said this in several situations, and when it comes to the regulations and the EU's overall legislation where it is resolutely competent in this case, it is the Minister of Slovenian and European Affairs to be seen that it can be found simply by entering the Ministry's pages which are sanctions because there is no secret information. They are official, they are published in the official EU list, so simply because of our people, our companies operating abroad are able to see if they exist and what countries or some entities the EU has imposed restrictive measures on them. Here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74705	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74706	Final proposal for an amending and supplementing law on international restrictive measures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 623. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that it is unanimous with 101 votes for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on International Restricted Measures, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74707	And today we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No. 649/2012 on exports and imports of dangerous chemicals, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 622 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Environment and Nature, and their reports were received at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Health Marijan Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74708	Thank you very much. The subject-matter of the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall continue to bring national legislation in line with the acquis of the EU. Namely, the Law implementing Regulation No. 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals has been established by the competent authority for the implementation of that Regulation and its tasks, the inspection of customs administrative supervision and the prescribed infringement provisions. Since 1 March 2014 the EU Regulation will apply. 649/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, it is necessary to bring national legislation in this area into line with that Regulation. This Regulation shall ensure the implementation of the international commitments under the Rotterdam Convention on the procedure of prior landing for certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade. A single contact point shall also be established for the interaction of the European Union and the Secretariat of the Rotterdam Convention with the other parties and the Convention as well as with other States and shall be authorised by the European Commission to carry out those tasks. The current executive powers of the European Commission have been delegated to the European Chemicals Agency, with particular emphasis on further development and maintenance of the European database on exports and imports of dangerous chemicals. The proposed law defines the Ministry of Health as the body responsible for implementing the regulation which cooperates with the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Anti-doping in the performance of those tasks. In addition, the proposed law provides that inspection controls in this area shall be carried out by sanitary inspectors in accordance with the rules governing the work of the department and the powers of the sanitary inspection and the supervision of chemicals while the customs administration of the Ministry of Finance and the powers to act in the exercise of supervision, including criminal sanctions, are laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74709	Thank you, too. Do the representatives of the barn want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74710	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's to not just talking about milk, I'm going to do a little bit about chemicals, and I'm going to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law. And chemicals are actually substances and preparations in the natural state or formed in the manufacturing process. There are many at European Union level talking about some 100,000 chemicals. And it is unnecessary to mention their importance and contribution and it is unimaginable today’s everyday life and it is a useful side which but there is another harmful one, and therefore it is necessary to keep them under control, of course, and under legal control. Therefore, in the first article of the Chemical Act, it clearly stands for the protection of human life and human health and environmental protection against harmful effects and chemicals, this law provides for conditions that must be met by legal and natural persons to carry out the activities of production, market use, use of chemicals and conditions for carrying out service and brokerage jobs where they do not come into direct contact with chemicals. So we also talked about the environment that we were obliged to keep and about health was also a lot of words so that you wouldn't look at it in particular. But certainly keep in mind that harmful side of the chemicals. And it's especially important here to emphasize dangerous chemicals, dangerous and special, and when it comes to haiarium, then everyone finds out what they're dangerous and what dangers they're hiding. And what are dangerous chemicals? Dangerous chemicals are chemicals that release or create infectious, irritable, flammable, explosive, corrosive, toxic or other dangerous dust, smokes, gases, fogs, steam or fibers during the production of transport, processing, storage or use in the technological process, as well as harmful radiation in quantities that can endanger human life and health, material goods and the environment at a lower or greater distance from the facility in which they are located. They're used in industry, agriculture, medicine, municipal hygiene. They are used in goods of broad consumption and households, poured out as a consequence of accidents in the transport of chemical incidents, in plants, laboratories, shops and warehouses. And about 500 thousand products are defined as dangerous chemicals. Most, and most of the victims of accidents caused by dangerous chemicals have been poisoned in their own household, it is important to mention and therefore it is important to know with them and handle them etc. Accidents in dangerous chemicals can happen anywhere. The settlements near the chemical plant are particularly endangered but dangerous chemicals are transported by roads, railways, waterways and airways so that all areas are subject to accidents. This is exactly the transport, the import, the export is the subject of this law. In that part, therefore, there were talks on this Regulation, which was in force in 2008 where the competent authority and its tasks were established in the implementation. In the meantime, this Regulation is from 2012. 649 which will in some way strengthen and improve this important area. Therefore, according to Regulation 649 of the European Union at European Union level, implementation of the international commitments made under the Rotterdam Convention in the preliminary consent procedure is ensured, it is very important to stress this for certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade. That's what matters. And secondly, what Mr. Deputy Minister said means that this unique contact point for the interaction of the European Union of the Rotterdam Convention Secretariat is being established. That's, I think it's all clear, I wouldn't repeat it. And so the competent authority is the Ministry of Health, who will cooperate with the Institute of Toxicology, which we do not need to speak of in particular, which has proved to be effective and under those conditions of war, especially. And so not to mention now all those tasks of the ministry are clearly written. And I believe that this regulation and this will improve this important area, and for this reason, as I said, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74711	The replica of Nenad is dancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74712	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. You have well listed all chemicals, type of danger, transport, export, import, how to use them in the household, how dangerous they are. But here's one replica to mention, in Krk, DINA, there are tons and tons of dangerous chemicals stored in tanks that are already questionable, in which there has been no inspection control for years and how long these chemicals will last in those tanks, and the failure of these tanks represents one eco bomb for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74713	Replication response, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74714	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm glad you noticed that I spoke in principle about the potential dangers and harmfulness of chemicals, and you set a concrete example, so I'm holding Mr. Deputy Minister of Health here, that this remark will also be taken into account and that it is very much to be taken care of. We warn many times, I come from an area where there are plenty of wells and everything and perhaps many times for a reason we wonder why and where this is delayed and I think the issue is very much in place and that in these circumstances we need to pay great attention to these legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74715	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, we would like to conclude today's work, and we will begin on Tuesday 18.3. at 9.30 with a debate on the Proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and related documents. Thank you. Have a nice weekend. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-14-0.u74716	Final draft law implementing Regulation No 649/2012 on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 622. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that the Law implementing Regulation No 649/2012 on the export and import of dangerous chemicals in the text has been unanimously adopted, as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you. We continue at the 12th plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the government, the Minister of Finance and his deputy. We've announced that we're starting with a budget rebalance. In line with this announcement, we are going to: - (A) Proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 B) Proposal to amend and supplement the financial plans for 2014: - Croatian Waters - Croatian Roads C) Proposal to amend and supplement the State budget and financial plans of extra- budget users for 2014 (consolidated) D) Explanation of the amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and of the financial plans of extra-profits for 2014; Proposer of acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of Articles 211, 212 and 213 shall apply when amending and supplementing the State budget. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposals for actions were carried out by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So almost half the board is fine. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed amendments and additions to the state budget must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the state budget. In the course of the debate on Amendments and Supplements to the State Budget, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the Amending and Supplements to the State Budget may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure is proposed at the same time in the specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this respect, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for the amendment is until the debate is over. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments and budget tabled as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. That means we'll vote on Friday. Does the proposing representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic. Here you go, dear Minister.
