ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64284	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I wish my colleagues a happy Women's Day and all the citizens of Croatia. I've taken advantage of today's break for several reasons, Mr. President and colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The HDSSB Club has no longer the business opportunity to warn and invite the Croatian Parliament to what we sent to the procedure six months ago, and this is our proposal in good faith towards the citizens and citizens of Vukovar, and then I would say also respect, as well as the dignity of the Croatian Parliament. Six months ago, he proposed to the HDSSB club along with other MPs, us 53 points of the proposal for a discussion on the issue of bilingual inscriptions in the town of Vukovar. Given that I also warned the Presidency of the Parliament that too long had passed from this proposal in the parliamentary procedure to everything that has happened since today's markings on Vukovar to those calls by the Vukovar Defence Staff, to all the unwanted consequences that have caused exactly what we want to warn about, ignoring the demands of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Meanwhile, about 650 thousand signatures were collected to call a referendum on the issue. What I want to call on the Croatian Parliament is that it is our duty to respect the will of Croatian citizens. Is the request justified or unwarranted? Let the one who needs to guard the Constitution that we have brought, and that is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The HDSSB club of colleagues and colleagues, to restore the dignity of the Croatian Assembly and to decide within reasonable deadlines what our citizens expect. If we ignore 650 thousand signatures regardless of the course of the debate, regardless of the problems we simply don't respect the ones who brought us here, and that's exactly what they're looking for. We propose that the Parliament open this debate, discuss the issue of bilingual inscriptions, discuss the issue of the request for a referendum and refer this request to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the guardian of the Croatian Constitution and the fundamental values of the Croatian state and the people and decide whether there are elements to call the referendum. What we specifically call for the avoidance of dialogues with any party, with any representatives of Croatian citizens, any associations, any headquarters, any citizens of Vukovar, any policy in the Assembly, the representatives' clubs have this very experience that no one listens to us, that we ignore the will of the citizens, that we do not discuss what we should discuss. We know and we are aware that there are a lot of bigger problems and thank God that there are no more riots and riots in Vukovar like there was, but believe me, the longer the deadline goes, the more tensions will be. And we call upon the Parliament to take advantage of its constitutional, business opportunity, and that is to open the debate in good faith, we here in the assembly dialogue which is not achieved unfortunately in Vukovar, and I am sure Mr. President that you are then and others who are well-intentioned and reasonable and who are people who have an attitude and who have powers in accordance with the Constitution went there to make everything different. I spoke here by entering the Parliament with representatives of the Vukovar headquarters, but it's not nice for them to wait on the street to submit requests to the Assembly's office so it would be nice for us to discuss it, to say that we understand the problems of both sides, that we respect the rights of national minorities, that we want good RH. We are a member of the EU, that we have a Constitutional Court that protects constitutionality and the guardianship of the Constitution, that we have all of us representatives' clubs, regardless of our political ideas, our policy guidelines and our aspirations and discussions about something, let us be fair to our people, respect the will to sign, talk to them, discuss constitutional changes, discuss the referendum, discuss everything we give and show that we respect those who have chosen us here. Once again, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to invite you to put this point into the parliamentary procedure as quickly as possible, and on behalf of the HDZB Club next week, I will send an official letter to the Presidency of the Parliament and ask that we discuss it, send it to the Constitutional Court and start dealing with what we are chosen for, and that is to respect the will of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64285	Thank you, too. It's the HDZ club and the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64286	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. No problem will be solved if he pushes under the carpet. This short, and at the same time long painful history of politics had not once been in a position to assess whether making certain decisions was good, did not, whether they should be delayed, whether they should be taken immediately and believe all those who had acted in power over the past 23 years were likely to find themselves in certain moments that they had to make decisions that they might not have agreed with. However, looking at these decisions in the long term and historically, they brought Croatia where they brought it, which is that we are now a member of both NATO alliances and EU members. What I would like to say was, to whom it was in the interest to push bilingual inscriptions into the heat of political events in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? So I speak for two reasons, one article of our 8th Constitution that says: "The provisions of this Constitutional Law and the provisions of special laws governing the rights and freedom of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied with the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, development, understanding, solidarity, tolerance of dialogue among them." This Article 8 was literally applied to many units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, and if I am not mistaken, there were no problems. There's no one in there who's been taking those inscriptions off, no one's got a problem with those inscriptions. But the elemental question is, is it time for bilingual inscriptions to be placed in Vukovar? Is the political climate, is the relationship primarily between the Serb national minority and the Croatian people came to this level so that it can be done? This is a key question and that is what is defined in Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and probably someone who proposed this article 8 proposed for the reason he assumed that a situation like this could simply happen. And when you force something, when the wounds are still open, when the wounds are still very painful, then unfortunately what happens happens. Why? What happened is that we've been back for a few years, and we can even say 10 years back compared to those two people in the city, hero Vukovar. And what happened on the day of the fall of Vukovar, the day of memory, what happened. Would that have happened if we had just been a little more reasonable and politically, here above all I think about the government, thinking and thinking about Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Probably wouldn't. And I'm going back to this, which is why we asked for a break. Why did we not discuss this issue in this House of Commons and that colleagues from the ruling coalition, that colleagues from the National Minorities Club, above all I mean colleagues from the SDSS, us from HDZ and other colleagues simply discuss the issue. So we've been elected here to discuss the issues and which we like and which we don't like and to give our opinion and to show simply in one tolerated debate that we can talk about all the issues. But in this way, if we are constantly pushing one item of the agenda into the seal, and every Friday we have 5-6 points served by the Government across the street that must go according to the urgent procedure, which we send to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We're not in a position to discuss it, we've led you to act the way you behave. My colleagues and colleagues, it is our responsibility that we are chosen here to discuss all topics. We have been elected here each of our political options, national minorities as representatives of national minorities just to talk about it. Since we did not have, in fact, the ruling coalition did not have the strength to do so, she did not want to discuss Article 8. The constitution that simply offers a solution to this problem, we have come to the situation in which we are. Unfortunately, Croatia is increasing more and more tonnes in ideological division, and ideological division is the least we need at the moment when we need a battle for the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64287	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64288	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With his behaviour from the day of handing over citizens' signatures for the referendum, the Parliament is obstructing the constitutional right of citizens to direct democracy. The constitutional right of citizens to a referendum, I hope, is not disputed. A part of the country's citizens took advantage of their right and came to their signatures before the president of the Croatian Parliament demanding a referendum. The signatures were submitted to the President of the Parliament, and as far as I have seen in the media, the President of the Parliament forwarded these signatures to the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The board doesn't discuss it, shut up. Because the board is silent, silent, and the Parliament. If we are to remain silent, act unconstitutional and not respond to those who have put their signatures on a request for a referendum. But there's another problem. Prime Minister Milanovic said the referendum would not be. With his statement, the Prime Minister put himself above the parliament and above the Constitutional Court, and such a political statement is not acceptable. The Prime Minister must not prejudge the decisions of the Croatian Parliament or the Constitutional Court with his statements. And this time we warn that the constitutional solution to the referendum in a normative sense has been regulated insufficiently. Secondly, the existing referendum law does not contain any time limits, and I remind you that by April 2011, at the latest, we had to agree to the 2010 constitutional changes. And this example shows that the order of business is not properly regulated and that we need to intervene in the third act, which is the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. If there is any doubt in the Assembly about the constitutionality of the issues or of the legitimates, there is a sufficient number of signatures, there are two options for asking the authority to verify the number of signatures collected and secondly, to address the Constitutional Court by requesting an opinion on the constitutionality of the issue and there is no third option. The Parliament may decide on the opening of a referendum if it considers that the issue is constitutional or a decision on the tide to be questioned by the Constitutional Court. And after the Constitutional Court's decision, there's no further discussion. Such a position was made clear by the Constitutional Court not full months ago in its decision to question the constitutionality of the referendum held last year. If we do not read in the assembly the positions of the Constitutional Court and if their opinions and warnings are not applied in our practice, then we have come to the deep crisis of the relations between the legislative authority and the Constitutional Court to which this Chamber and the Constitution and the Constitutional Law have authorised the Constitutional Court and given it certain powers. I therefore call on the Chair of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to convene a committee session within 8 days at the latest and put on the agenda a proposal for a referendum, and the Croatian Labourists will propose and now publicly propose that this issue which the citizens have raised be referred to the Constitutional Court's assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64289	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of the Honorable Representatives Jadranka Kosor and the Citizens' Party and now performs a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64290	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We must always do the same thing about the signature, so a large set of people gathered at the Croatian Vukovar Defence Station as they are called has launched an initiative to collect signatures. The signatures have been collected and submitted to the Croatian Assembly. So, you should do what you always do. First of all, check to see if there's enough signatures. As did the state institutions when the signatures were collected for the 2010 referendum, but also for the referendum last year. If a sufficient number of signatures are found, in this case, the whole process should begin at the Croatian Parliament from the Committee on the Constitution to the plenary session. So it is my opinion, and it is our opinion that this debate in the Croatian Parliament should then be held and that the Croatian Parliament should then act as I suggested and a proposal for a conclusion after the debate on the referendum last year. So, take advantage of your right, your option from the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and send it, so this is the only possibility that Parliament has at the plenary session to send a request to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of the issue proposed at the referendum. And when the Constitutional Court makes a decision, then, of course, it's for us as well as for everyone else absolutely binding. So, regardless of what different opinions are and what exists, according to all the statements we have heard from different politicians, even those who have signed the petition, that is to say, with a request for a referendum to be called. And then after that, they said that the referendum shouldn't be. So, regardless of which we must act as always and always respect the laws, respect the Constitution and certainly use the possibility of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. So it is also my opinion that we have a constitutional law that we have actually agreed on by consensus or almost absolute consensus in 2002 in this Parliament. So they voted both left and right and there were very few who voted against. So that's the frame we're moving in today. And I'm not gonna get tired of reminding myself it's back in '96. President Tudjman also signed all key documents on human rights, but also on minority rights on our path to the Council of Europe, so on the European path, to NATO. We are members of NATO and the EU today. So, what changed since 2002? That we have become a NATO member and become a member of the EU, that we have chosen high standards in respect of human and minority rights. But we have also committed ourselves because we wanted to do so in the last big EU accession process to respect the law and respect the Constitution. It's a legal state. And that's where the circle closes. So we have to do what we always do. We have signatures, we have to react. Ignoring the signature would lead to the fact that after a while again, we have a big problem that we absolutely don't need. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on minority rights is interpreted in its own way. But one thing's for sure, ladies and gentlemen. The events we witnessed on November 18th last year must not happen again. There is no werewolf and non-vukovar Croatia and one cannot allow someone named Bojan Glavasevic, for example, to go to Ovcara, or cannot go to the Memorial cemetery and place a flower there and light a candle. We must not allow this to happen, so we must react, discuss these signatures and make a decision. If the conditions of a referendum are met, and if the conditions are not met, then the referendum will not be held. Ignoring is a major problem and can lead to the awakening and escalating of dissatisfaction, and that would first and foremost be the head of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64291	Thank you very much. Club of the Croatian People's Party in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64292	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So, we have a proposal from the HDZ Clubs and the HDZB to hold a debate and to decide that one part of the Constitutional Law that we have jointly adopted, which is part of our common declared policy at the time when the acceptance of those obligations that we have made before came, or that we have fulfilled the obligations that we have accepted in the law in which some obligations are required to be delayed, not to be met, and that some other things in the law are indicated in principle which we are entitled to be respected. And commit the Government to apply them with special care those parts of the laws that suit us politically and those where there are difficulties in fulfilling that delay. That's the meaning of this proposal. This proposal does not include a debate on the referendum, if there is a debate, of course, that there will also be a debate on the referendum, because in the meantime there has been a signing. And the worst thing we can do in that situation is not do anything, and we're doing exactly that. I'm talking about the ruling majority that doesn't do anything, time goes by, and nothing can be better tomorrow. This decision on what kind of referendum it will be and whether it will be and what its consequences will be must be made at some point, whoever is making it, and the debate on the proposal of representatives clubs which, in a legal and formal sense, are also not problematic. Both should be done as soon as possible. What is the political position of colleagues who suggest that one part of the law as an international obligation and declared level of protection of minority rights apply at that time. It doesn't seem particularly principled to advocate something like that, but we'll talk about it. But we have to open this debate. As for the Constitutional Court at one hour before that Constitutional Court knew because it lives in that country, in this country, it is not far outside of Croatia, when the procedure for calling the referendum was completely legal, we do not yet know whether it was valid and the number of signatures, but when it happened for a referendum the Constitutional Court did not want to be manifested and asked for someone to send him a request in the most important process of his responsibility, which is the creation of the Croatian Constitution. This court did not consider it necessary for it to come out and give its position but rather asks for something to ask him somewhere as if he was not familiar with what is happening and that the result of this change of the Croatian Constitution is his fundamental responsibility. We are now in such a ridiculous situation again, whether this court will do what its business is or will demonstrate the political tactics of the ruling majority, whether from Parliament's level, or from the government level, must make a decision. Either he asks that body so I will call him to give his opinion and thus do a job that should be done by definition of his mission and his existence or he will only make that decision but delaying and these decisions and this debate is not good. Therefore, I call on the President of the Croatian Parliament to have this debate as soon as possible here in the Croatian Parliament, and that the issue of relations with the referendum and the referendum issue and the validity of the signature also be resolved by the ruling majority at the level of the Government or by Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64293	On behalf of the National Minorities Club in the Croatian Assembly, respected representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64294	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It was hard to add to what we've heard so far, so first of all, I'm going to say that I absolutely support what my colleague Kosor said and just a few more things I'd like to mention. I'll start at the end. A young man named Pajicic paid for his fat health with what is being discussed in this country, which is whether we will apply the Constitutional Law or not. The second very high price was what happened on Memorial Day on November 18th where the bilingual panels proved not to be a problem of relations between the Serb minority and the Croatian majority or any other citizen in Vukovar, but rather of exactly respected colleagues and colleagues from the government and opposition, therefore, that day has shown that there are deep divisions between you. That's why I'm going to ask you from one principle if the law, the Constitutional Law, we have to apply it. If we want him not to apply in Vukovar, let's change him in this House first or bring some other solution. But this is that we need to discuss in the Croatian Parliament whether any of the laws will be applied at all or not, we can then question any law that we bring here. I ask you to make an effort to keep Vukovar and bilingual plates and Cyrillics in this country not a question that you will fight politically but that all within the framework of the people who are with you, who are your electoral body, so contribute to making all the expensive contributions that this country as a member of the EU goes to some higher standards. I will not comment on the referendum, we do not know whether it will be or will not be, but I remind you if it were to come to it and if the provisions that, therefore, were to vote 50 per cent quota would not only be a Serb minority, but also some other minorities would be left without rights in certain environments and in Istria, as well as the Hungarian and Slovak minorities and the Czechs, so it would bring a number of other problems. I call on you, this country has enough and other problems, do everything you can to solve the crucial problems, not to make our national minority rights subject to political struggle.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64295	Thank you very much. A club of independent lists and a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64296	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I will first join the women's congratulations on March 8th. Gentlemen, this referendum would be deeply anti-civilization if it came to it and probably not stopped. Right, there were 650 thousand signatures collected. Does anyone in this country have the right to question the position of national minorities? I say in one perfidious way and in one extremely dangerous way. Does anyone have the right to challenge the position of minorities today? This referendum attempt is dangerous. If there is an assessment of the Constitutional Court, I hope the same Constitutional Court will not allow anything that could only compromise the foundations of the Croatian state. This referendum does not question my position, only the position of the Serbs in Vukovar, and why would their position be questioned? No one has the right to do that. The situation of the Italians, the Czechs, the Hungarians, the Russians, is already at stake, in one word, but also in the majority. Who in the next day in Croatia would have the right to a minority statement if it would be necessary for 50% and more minority members to live in some environment. So let's just remember what Croatia was going through in the '90s. Well, someone's gonna say no to the minority position, but the war certainly had one ethnic character. Could anyone question international agreements with such a referendum issue, and that would happen, for example right now? Such a referendum would also call into question contracts which, for example, ex Yugoslavia concluded with the Republic of Italy, it does not matter now whether it is the Paris Treaty, the Treaty of London, the Oslim, the Treaty of Rome, or then the Republic of Italy took over those contracts in its legal order. Clearly, all these contracts have power above the law. It would be the same, beware gentlemen with the position of Hungarians, Austrians, etc. I am experiencing this Vukovar initiative with a permanent political initiative by a couple of excellent political initiatives that discriminates against the position of all minorities, not only Serbian and disqualify the position of the Republic itself and therefore let us not play with the freedoms, freedoms of Croatian citizens and they are all regardless of the nationality that live in these areas. The impact on the minority is always a blow to the majority, the impact on the Serbs is a blow to the Croats, the attack on the Italians is a blow to the freedom of each of us and finally this Cyrillic, who can be disturbed by the Cyrillic, so it is as much a Croatian letter as it is Serbian, so in one St. It was written by Peter in the woods at the same time as the verb there at 11 or 12th century. Yes, and I am in favour of the Constitutional Court's decision and I believe that their position will be as Croatia deserves today, and most of this I am convinced will protect the minority. No more riots, Mr. Salapic said that in Vukovar and that's good, but you know what he's saying, as my predecessor said, that there was politics behind it. When did these riots happen in Vukovar? It happened at the time when the presidents of the Republic, Government, Parliament, ambassadors accredited to the Republic of Croatia should express admiration for the victim of Vukovar and all those who defended and killed in 91, defended Vukovar and killed for Croatia. Why the Cyrillic didn't bother anyone in '96, '97, a year of peaceful reintegration, because Cyrillic can't be a problem at the time. Cyrillic is just one imaginary problem. And finally, yes, I think that Parliament should discuss everything, even in this anti-civilization initiative, the vote for that referendum from me never but the debate always, yes. So let's ask that Constitutional Court, too, exactly, the Constitutional Court is a political body pair of excellent political bodies but I still don't believe that they would just no matter how politicalised they were to violate the Croatian Constitution which, first of all, they must correct with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64297	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club in the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64298	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If we were to decide on the scale of things then I would be against this initiative because it is in the most direct conflict with the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution, with the value of tolerance, human rights, minority rights and at the same time in the most direct conflict with everything that has been done in the last 20 years and especially since 96-2000, when it comes to restoring trust in the city of Vukovar and the two counties of Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem, which are some people who have been sitting here for several years of their work and their lives. But it's not just about the measure of things, it's about the procedure. And even when we don't agree with that measure of things, as we can't get along, as far as the procedure is concerned, we have to satisfy it. So, when the Croatian Parliament has already brought into the situation that it has constitutional provisions that regulate referendum practice in such a way that everything and everyone can be called a referendum and under circumstances that are, which are nowhere in the world. And since we've already allowed ourselves to be unable to change that kind of constitutional provisions and when we go into one business and we stop in the middle of it, then we have to imagine what we need to do. In this case, there is no doubt that the Croatian Parliament should say its own, when it has not already been told by the Constitutional Court, an institution that should not be political, but which, by its silence, is a political institution, acts as another political institution in the Republic of Croatia. I can understand when some people who are representatives of the state summit doubt whether they will come forward or not and how much they will talk about it and how they will speak, out of the opportunism of this or that kind, but the Constitutional Court does not have that kind of obligation and should not act as a political institution and should have already given their opinion on this matter, as he has not failed to say in some other questions, so that he is spotlessly reacting to the constitutional laws on the rights of national minorities, and contrary to the model of cadium and suing, the cadiya is suing you. He sets out the principles by which he will bring something, and then he brings it after that. But the Croatian Parliament, also as a place with constitutional obligations and the protection of constitutionality, needs to discuss this initiative and should give its opinion, and it is my opinion that the initiative that comes in uniforms so many years after the war, which comes with a hate speech, after so much time and effort to eradicate hate from our society, which comes with the messages of intolerance, after so much effort from the first president of this country, the second president of this country, the current president, so many governments, should be silent that such a thing cannot go away. Not only in Europe's Croatia, but in Croatia, which holds on to itself, which will not allow it to be a victim of militarisation in political life, and I especially want to tell my colleagues who are ignoring it and who allow people in uniforms to compete in what messages they will send. And speaking of metric issues, members of not only Serbian, but also Czech and Hungarian and Slovak and Italian communities with such a referendum initiative would experience the restriction of their rights. Czechs in Končanica, Hungarians in the Prince's vineyards, Slovaks in Punovci, and Italians in Grožnjan I've got it, Mr. President. [[Adversity President: Bring an end, Your Honor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-07-0.u64299	Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues, if there is a situation where the chairman of the Croatian Parliament or the president of the Croatian Parliament should give some explanation, then this is the situation after this debate. Therefore, the President of the Croatian Parliament is in line with the Rules of Procedure, and it is two initiatives that affect or want to edit one and the same problem. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure referred to in the procedure, the parliamentary procedure of both requests. However, none of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, whether in the section of the Rules of Procedure, or only to be declared by the interested body, have put any initiative on the agenda, not a single proposal that we are discussing today. It is one thing to conclude that it will discuss this when a decision is made by the Croatian Parliament in its plenary decision, which is absurd in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, the rule of law is the principle of the Croatian Constitution which obliges both the Croatian Parliament and the Constitutional Court and all other democratic institutions in Croatia. Therefore, the rule of law also obliges the Croatian Parliament to respect the principles and values of the Constitution and all other institutions, the democratic institutions of Croatian society, the Croatian state and the Constitutional Court. Third thing I'm saying is, it's not for you, it's for the Croatian public. The President of the Croatian Parliament, the truth is represented and represented by the Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but when it comes to decision-making, then the President of the Croatian Parliament has the same responsibility, the same powers, when it comes to decision-making, I repeat, like any other representative. To the truth, it should be said, several times here, Croatia, i.e. the Croatian Constitution and the Croatian Parliament missed the opportunity for constitutional issues and the initiative for the state referendum to be regulated in a proper way. Neither was it arranged in the Constitution itself, nor in the Law of Referendum. This allows for some discretion or discretionary possibility for the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament if they are formally looking at things. I therefore realised my obligation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure without assessing the validity or quality of any initiative. The Croatian Parliament will decide for itself, I repeat, in accordance with the principle of rule of law, the values set out in the Croatian Constitution. I had to say that for the sake of the Croatian public. Since there are no conclusions, it is both the practice and the possibility given to us by the Rules of Procedure but the initiative does not even require any conclusion, it is imposed on itself. All the representatives of the clubs agreed that the Parliament must decide. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs, continue the meeting of the Croatian Parliament at the 12th session. We'll start with last Friday's announcement. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 633; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports from these working bodies. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic, please welcome the respected ministers.
