ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u77771	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u77772	Congratulations, colleague. I want you to contribute to the work of the Croatian Parliament in achieving the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and legal persons in Croatia. And now we're going to move on to a fixed agenda. We agreed to have a joint discussion: A) Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, B) Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2013, - Report of the State Office for Auditing the annual reports on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. We also agreed to work on clubs for 20 minutes for both reports. ... We can raise to 12 minutes, individual debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Can we get up? Okay. Can you do that technically? All right, all right. The government therefore submitted a report on the basis of Article 110 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budget law. In the event of a discussion of the annual report, Article 176 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82000	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today we are facing the Annual Implementation of the 2013 budget and before I begin to explain the achievement of the 2013 budget, I would briefly say the main characteristics of this implementation. Especially given the difficult economic situation and the five-year recession, this also marked the state of public finances. However, regardless of the state of public finances, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to maintain certain social status, unfortunately the most vulnerable citizens, and to increase certain transfers so that in the overall context, we need to look at this implementation of the budget. First of all, we must say that social benefits and transfers to the most vulnerable categories of society have been retained and increased. Also another feature of the 2013 budget was the retention and increase of pensions, i.e. Retirement indexation continued. As the third main feature that marked the 2013 budget is the implementation of accumulated obligations towards health institutions. And the other two no less important are certainly a number of incentives for businesses to preserve jobs through tax relief, primarily through a reduction in gross labour prices and non-payment of income tax if it is for investment. It is also one of the important characteristics in not only budgetary policy, but also the introduction of order into the field of gray economy in order to promote competitiveness and fair, fair games in the market. This is some five main characteristics, i.e. those that have affected both the revenue and the expenditure side of the budget. So I would start, so as far as income is concerned, the total revenues of the state budget in 2013 have been achieved at € 108.8 billion, which is one billion less than in 2012. In the income structure, the most significant item is income from VAT amounting to 40.2 billion kuna or 37.1%) of all revenues. The VAT in 2013 was realised at less than 1% or somewhere around 400 million kuna. The second most significant revenue in the budget is the contributions that have been realised in the amount of 37.1 billion kuna or about 34.2% of all revenues. And they as well as VAT were achieved in less than 700 million kuna or 1.8% compared to last year. When I look at these two most significant categories, or sources of budget revenue, they've dropped 1.1 billion kuna, but we're asking why. First of all, this is primarily due to the economic boost seen through a reduction in health insurance contributions by two index points or by 13% discharge of gross labour prices. Where we said that some annual effect of this was slightly more than 2 billion kuna and changes in VAT policy primarily due to a reduction in VAT to catering services from 25% to 13%. The significant impact on the economic recovery, which certainly affected both the VAT side and the income side, was related to small entrepreneurship in 2013 and is seen through an increase of VAT entry thresholds from 80 to 230 thousand kuna or around 30,000 666 euros. What were we trying to do with this? With this we wanted to achieve that small businessmen, small businessmen, do not actually open their turns in neighbouring countries where they have, which until then had a lower threshold for entering the VAT system. And I think with this measure we certainly helped the small economy. If you see that in Bosnia and Herzegovina you have 25 thousand and 600 euros, in Slovenia about 25 thousand, in Italy 30, Montenegro 18, Hungary 17, Macedonia 32 and Serbia 35 you see that the Republic of Croatia is with this measure to encourage the system that is not within the VAT system where about 31 thousand euros has certainly affected the business of small entrepreneurs. This shows that about 26 thousand and 700 thousand entrepreneurs have come out of the VAT system because of this measure. This measure also partly affected smaller VAT. Also due to a number of changes primarily due to the entry into the single market, there has been a change in the calculation and payment of VAT on imports of goods. That is, the same is no longer done immediately on imports of goods but represents an accounting category at the end of the month. This application had a negative impact of VAT on the budget somewhere around 1.6 billion kuna, which means that the money remained liquidally in the economy. This is a permanent liquid positive effect for the economy. You've had to... on each import and unfortunately we are an extremely import-oriented country when importing immediately pay VAT and then you actually brought it back from the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This liquidity measure has made it easier for entrepreneurs to operate on the Croatian market to adapt to the single system on the European Union market. Also by entering the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made it possible to use the so-called reverse charge at VAT for builders, i.e. the mutual transfer of the tax liability to the recipient. This is an extremely important measure for small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs because they could actually use their pre-taxes in large deliveries. You know that one of the largest parts of the liquidity that prevailed in the construction sector was simply not paying large to small ones. And this is a strong measure that has helped small builders, small craftsmen to collect their works with large builders. And we think that this measure is liquid, it's liquid, and it amounts to somewhere our estimates are from 4 to 5 billion kuna a year. This is an incentive measure for entrepreneurs and, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also affected the change in the VAT system in 2013 in order to allow them to use this pre-tax from large taxpayers. When we talk about other excise revenues, 10.8% of income or 11.6 billion kuna and tax profits are certainly about 5.9% of all revenue or 6.3 billion kuna. A significant fall in the taxation of profits is primarily due to the amendment of the legal rules i.e. due to tax relief from reinvested profits. This resulted in a direct decrease in profit tax in 2013 by 1.3 billion kuna or 17%. What did we want to achieve here, and what happened in the Croatian economy with this measure of incentives to entrepreneurship? The measure to introduce a tax relief for reinvested profits, i.e. It is not paid if it is used to increase core capital has greatly improved the competitiveness and capitalisation of the Croatian economy, thus facilitating the business of Croatian entrepreneurs on both domestic and demanding European markets. The annual effect of this measure was our estimates from 1.5 billion to 2 billion kuna. This measure was necessary if we know that the capitalisation of companies in Croatia has been constantly falling since 2001. It's constantly falling and that's one of the reasons why we don't have economic growth. In 2001, the share of capital in Croatian companies was 55%; the pre-crisis 2007 capitalisation of Croatian companies was 50% in 2012 the total capital of Croatian companies was 34% or somewhere around 360 billion kuna. What happened by introducing this incentive measure for entrepreneurs? In 2013, this reduction in profit tax was used by 1873 companies, which means that these companies decided to increase their core capital totalling 5.7 billion kuna, which significantly increased their financial structure in the coming years. Although a very small number of taxpayers have opted for reinvested profits, or when we see that they are 1.3% in the total structure, these bonds employ a very large number of workers. Those who used reinvested profits employ over 99,000 workers, means 99,000 workers working in these companies that used this tax relief as we finally felt on the budget, but this was an identical goal and measure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to preserve jobs in these companies. When we look at industry means about 26,200 workers in trade in these companies, the processing industry, 25 000, tourism about 6,500 and construction about 6,300, it means in those industries that we wanted to encourage so that we could ultimately have positive economic growth. The above-mentioned incentive measure for the economy has shown a positive result as seen in the annual financial reports of entrepreneurs for 2013. The core capital of entrepreneurs in 2013 increased by 4.1% and 12.5 billion kuna respectively, from a total economy of 302 to 314 billion kuna. This part of the capital increase raised the total capitalisation of Croatian companies by 1 percentage point. It means in 2013 we are raising the capital of companies by this measure. The largest increase in capital was made, which is good, in small businesses and by 7.8 billion kuna, which means 63% of the increase in total capitalisation was made in 2013. Capitalisation oscillates in terms of size of entrepreneurs. Although small entrepreneurs have shown the largest growth in capital, it is still not enough to launch the economy by, because it is still a high financial leverage, a very high sensitivity and a limit on bank loans. Small entrepreneurs still have low 19% of the capital in their balance sheets. Medium-sized enterprises are at one 31%, while large ones have a satisfactory 46%. This measure had not only an incentive to increase capital but also increased the level of investment in new long-term assets. According to FINA's annual financial reports, investments have increased among these companies that have used reinvested profits by 14% and this is the first time in fact since the crisis year such a strong boost in investment growth or by 4.6 billion kuna, has increased from 32.9 to 37.5 billion kuna. They contributed most to this boost again by small entrepreneurs by 29%, i.e. 2.8 billion kuna. The averages increased their investment by 2%, while large ones increased investment by about 9%. The largest number of tax reliefs introduced by the Government during 2012, 2013 is seen through improved business of entrepreneurs. Again, the same aggregated data show that the revenues in 2013 were good and encouraging measures that I say felt on the side of the budget but were targeted and that we wanted to help and helped the Croatian economy which in the fifth year of recession so that the positive effects were seen slightly and increased revenues. From 602 billion kuna to 612 billion kuna, the total revenues of 101 000 entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia have been increased. In 2013, business on the single customs market also contributed to the reduction of customs revenues in the state budget. The effect, only in 2013 was lower revenue in the state budget of 650 million kuna, but that money remained in the economy. The annual effect is 1.3 billion kuna so that all effects with reinvested profits and with contributions both with customs and with this part of VAT will certainly be seen and seen in 2014. These are the positive effects of one part of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and other strong government measures within two years of continuing the recession, however, at the heart of the state budget's revenues to encourage entrepreneurship. You know we've suspended excise duty on vessels where certain small ships from 5 to 10 million kuna have also been helped. Also in 2013 it continued with a measure aimed at strengthening fiscal discipline and reducing certain tax non-discipline. You know that one by one of my best projects in this 23 years is the introduction of a fiscalization where, let's say, 80,000 entrepreneurs have applied. Those figures that I'm about to give you here are the effects of fiscalization asking each other what we really are and whether we've had fair and correct business all these years. Because these figures that show the introduction of order and introduction not so much to collect certain revenues, but fair and fair matches on our market, show that in the activities of catering small legal and physical persons in 2013 reported a total of 2.6 billion kuna or 40% more taxable deliveries than in 2012. Of these, natural persons reported 55% more traffic, while small legal entities reported 30% more taxed services. When we talk about hospitality, when we talk about trade, the total increase in taxed services is 14% or 5.2 billion kuna, of which natural persons show an increase of 28%, while small legal persons report 11.5% or have reported higher taxable services of $3.7 billion. Lawyers reported an increase in tax services by 4.8 or 6.7 million kuna more than in 2013. What is also important in 2013 has passed 2.2 billion accounts through chargers. So 2.2 billion bills went through the chargers, of which 1.3 billion went through the trade, and what's interesting through the catering went through 377 million accounts, but behind that is very close to the processing industry 348 million accounts, so we're asking ourselves whether the processing industry hasn't worked or everyone still in the catering isn't issuing accounts. The catering and processing industry in cash business is about 350, 370, 340 million bills. From the annual income tax application, so this data was processed, so based on 2013. It is also seen an increased average traffic in the restaurant craftsman, the daily average traffic increased from 620 to 1128 kuna. So the daily average catering turnover increased by 82%. Daily average income increased from 100 to 210 kuna, meaning increase over 100%. The daily average turnover increased from 13% from 734 to 827 kuna, while the daily average income increased from 85 to 95 kuna. The average registered income at Croatia level from independent craftsmen and free professions in 2013 has also increased by 35% compared to 2012. The largest increase in average income in natural persons was seen in the Sibenik-Knin County area of 83%, Dubrovnik 64, Istria 61, Zadar 52, Primorje-goranske 50, Split-Dalmatia 33, Zagreb City 30. These all the data that we have to tell us he line data raises one fundamental question whether we have had a fair and fair match all these years on the Croatian market among all Croatian entrepreneurs. This is a fundamental issue, not just looking at the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. If you look at this data that says that the increase in traffic is not only three, five, ten percent but that we're talking about an increase of one hundred percent, eighty percent. The question arises as to how those who paid their taxes neatly were in a fundamental, fair match at the competition. Also what is recorded, and this certainly means increasing local income. These are local taxes and in this part of such measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the effects of fiscalisation increased, directly increased local revenues. What you can see through local incomes and their increase is certainly an increase in consumption tax. You know he's a direct local tax. This increase in 2013 was 48%, i.e. An increase from 95 to 141 million kuna. So this is one fundamental change where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, with all the encouraging measures that we have given to the economy and where we have said that we will also reduce a certain part of the VAT to the hospitality, a huge increase in traffic is being seen. And then the question of certain institutions in this country is raised primarily by those who measure spending in the Republic of Croatia, who say that spending in Croatia is falling. The consumption in Croatia falls according to tax returns and according to the data we exchange with the Tax Administration shows you that these are jumps of amazing 30, 50 and 100%. We ask the question is there any other measuring institutions that speak and what GDP measures, which measure annual consumption and in fact in Croatia are we actually in that part to turn this process around whether to use new technologies and these new measures that we have introduced. When we talk about fiscalization, and there's been a lot of rumors here that it's not going to work, that Internet connections are not working. 2.2 billion kuna actually went by. In fact, here we were belittled that this government would not succeed in carrying out this project because it failed the project in our neighbouring countries. My answer to you was and you can also look at the stenograms that Croatia is the best in the region and that Croatia will make this project. What actually happens with us with the effects of fiscalization is now a Croatian export product. I have next week and talks with the Czech Minister of Finance, Slovenian, Hungarian. Everyone wants to see what Croatia has done in the field of fiscalisation and control of business with cash, so that we do not talk about neighbouring countries. We will not talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia where we already have contracts, but we are talking about Western countries where it has proved to be actually Croatian brains but certainly the government's determination to implement measures against the fight against the gray economy has certainly proved successful. And this is also one of the main issues that should be highlighted in the 2013 budget. Also measures on the spending side are what I said the first three categories were to, not to reduce certain transfers towards social benefits and pensions but also to increase. Despite heavy economic activity, if you look at structures and pensions and as far as social transfers are concerned, certain increases have been made, so I will now just short-term expenditure. So the spending party was made at an amount of $125.1 billion and it was 5.2 billion higher in 2012. The implementation of expenditure in 2013 is primarily by increasing the payment of the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union of 1.8 billion kuna, and the settlement of health institutions' obligations of 3.3 billion kuna. When looking at the cost structure, the biggest expenditures are certainly compensation to citizens and households and they account for a total of 53.8% of all expenditures. This primarily refers to pensions and pension incomes made in 2013 amounting to HRK 36.1 billion, i.e. about a little less than one billion kuna, pensions and pension incomes increased compared to 2012 which was primarily government policy to continue with two indexations made in April and September. When we look at old-age family pensions, 2.4% more pensions have been allocated while 5 billion kuna or 3.9% more than in 2012. Health leaves amounted to 21.6 billion kuna during 2013. It is primarily under the influence of the law, actually, where we said we had to settle certain debts in health care and they amount to 3.3 billion kuna. What have the 3.3 billion kunas been spent on? What someone likes to say is that it's a crazy waste of money. It's not. Health care is our most important system with a pension system and obligations have to be met in order not to deliver certain medicines and that is to say, not to further reproduce this to lower services to citizens. The maximum amount of 1.7 billion kuna refers to the payment of prescription medicines according to 445 pharmacies. The amount of HRK 1.4 billion was paid for stationary and health care according to 170 different suppliers of KBCs and KBs, and the payment of 115 million kuna to 434 pharmacies for the debts of orthopaedic aids and the debt of 71 million kuna to various legal and physical persons to the amount of the due debt for sickness benefits. 36 million kunas were paid to the Croatian Institute for Transfusion Medicine. Also, maternity benefits, child benefits, benefits for unemployed and active employment policies during 2013 have been set aside by 5.4 billion kuna, which is 1.7% more than in 2012. Also, employee expenses, so here we were talking about one part of the expenditure that was either detained or partially growing. Costs for employees in 2013 amounted to 1.6 billion kuna and what the government did with its measures reduced employee costs by 727 million kuna or 3.2%. First of all, by reducing the coefficients by 3%, by eliminating certain Christmases and regressions and by introducing a centralised salary account. Also, one of the great projects of this government, you know that for 10 years we haven't been able to list how many employees we have in public, list how many people we have, not that... Please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not to make a central account of wages through the system. In early 2013, it started a salary accounting project, with 104 thousand employees, or 917 institutions in 2013. Material expenditures are also reduced, they are around 8 billion kuna or 2.8% lower in 2012. Both employees and expenditures on employees and material expenditures were actually reduced in that part. By estimating all these actual figures, the primary reduction in a certain part of the expenditure is obtained that in fact the budget, the central budget of the state, was only central, about 16 billion kuna, which we think is a high deficit. However, given the government's policies that we have said that we are in a 5-year crisis, that we are in a deep recession, the government has decided with very clear policies to help entrepreneurs, to introduce a fair and correct match to the market and not to touch in this part of the 5-year crisis of social and endangered categories, not to touch the pensioners, but to increase at least in this part to some of these difficult economic conditions actually to withstand this part of the recession, so that we can come back later. Because when companies return and the revenues return they will certainly have an impact on the expenditure side of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82001	Thank you very much. Report by the State Audit Office on the audit carried out. ... And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's go to the replicas, I agree. Replications first. ... Then don't yell from the bench, I'd already do it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Therefore, the State Audit Office’s report on the annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. The report shall be submitted to the National Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 6. The State Audit Office Act. The materials of this report, i.e. the state office, are published on the official pages of the Croatian Parliament. The report was discussed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does a representative of the state office want to further explain? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, the Chief State Auditor, the Honorable Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82002	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The report on the annual report has been audited... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82003	So, if we have defined the time for exposure on behalf of clubs and individually, then the same goes for our Rules of Procedure. So, no matter how many points we unite has the right 30 minutes. We can agree that since there are four minutes left of Minister Lalovec to say the State Audit Office gets 10 minutes, but we stick to our Rules of Procedure. But he can't have 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82004	Your grace will be respected by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82005	So before you is the report on the annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. The obligation of this revision is prescribed by Article 6. The State Audit Office Act. The audit has been planned and carried out with the aim of providing reasonable assurance that the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 has been drawn up in accordance with accounting rules and that the provisions of the law and other rules governing budgetary rules have been applied consistently. For the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, the State Audit Office expressed its conditional opinion. This opinion, therefore conditional, was influenced by the following facts, which is that the data in the main book of the state budget are not complete because no data on the claim for taxes, contributions and specific taxes and data on the value of state assets have been provided. In addition, certain claims for taxes and other public charges are written off by applying the provisions of certain laws and regulations, reprogrammed and charged with real estate, shares and shares or the changeover of mutual claims, which is also not recorded in the accounts and financial reports, and have had an impact on the revenues, expenditures and assets of the state budget. Furthermore, the value of new financial guarantees is higher than the amount prescribed by the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. In addition, budget resources financed the expenditures that could be predicted or implemented on a continuous basis, so they could and should have been planned. To remove all these irregularities that I have listed here as well as the failure of the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations that must be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82006	Thank you, too. So we haven't proportionally used the whole extension time. Now we're going to the replicas. First of all, the replicas of the respected Minister Boris Lalovec. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, First Replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82007	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, after a very self-satisfaction on budget implementation, I am openly asking you here in this high house what is the deficit of the state budget? Is it 16 200 or 18 500? Why? Because in December we adopted the state budget and see the devil in 15 days the expenditures are lower by a billion and a sixth. The Ministry of Science does not pay for overtime and transport, and suddenly there is an surplus of 35 million on its budget. The second thing, if we combine certain findings of state audits, then you will see that the income of HANDA by nothing could have been the revenue of the state budget in 2013. Thus, this 600 million raises the budget. Also certain guarantees given to HZ instead of subsidies that had come from the budget, and these guarantees will tomorrow be charged from the budget raise us to a deficit somewhere between 18.5, 19 billion and such a real deficit of the state budget in 2013. It's obvious and cannot stand Mr. Minister's original plans and current plan. There is no original and ongoing plan, we have the last adopted state budget in December 2013 and that is what is relevant to us. And here in the original plan it just doesn't exist. So there's a plan and there's an execution. And what it means is the original and current plan that fits completely, I don't know. So, and this paper clearly says that there was a setup to make the deficit 16 billion and 200, after all, you yourself said in one statement in the 4th month that the problem of increasing expenditure in 2014 was expenditure that had to be paid from 2013, that's your statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82008	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82009	So what you're saying, thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, is what you're saying about some sort of numbering that might have been done in the past, maybe, I'm not saying anything. I'm just saying that in 2011, when you left the deficit as much as you left, then when EUROSTAT came, it wasn't so much a deficit, it was that the deficit wasn't 15 but 27 billion. So the same thing in this deficit is a unique methodology, not our accounting one, but the one that confirms EUROSTAT. We are now a member of the European Union, all of these figures reviewed by EUROSTAT and you know very clearly that we are in the excessive deficit procedure, very clearly numbers are known and publicly published in European reports. And the numbering is in 2011. For years, the deficit of 15 billion and when EUROSTAT comes, says gentlemen, it wasn't your deficit of 15, but it was your deficit of 27 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82010	A respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82011	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I've somehow counted more than half your exposure time you've spent on exposure to fiscalization. You don't ask me, what is fiscalization? It's for, it's not for you, Mr. Minister. It's for the officials of the third echelon. It was me in Banja Luka five, six years ago in a bar, everything was fiscalized, nothing we invented there. And don't think that this increased income from fiscalization, don't let it keep you convinced that you said that there was no consumption in Croatia. That's what people pay as soon as they don't pay, and spending in Croatia has fallen because the people are poor. But what I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, is what you didn't say, the Croatian budget broke. Former Minister Linic and you are now going to New York every month to borrow money. And if it wasn't for the checks, it would have taken a boat of money, it would have gone across the ocean. We've fallen apart, we don't function as a state, the deficit is so much that nobody can take it anymore. You didn't do anything to get state finances in line. And don't brag about anything. I like a good mood even in Parliament, but this is the mood to cry. And you were supposed to be crying out about our budget today, not with a smile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82012	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, why was I talking about fiscalization? Just to show you about introducing order and in a fair game that you've had a chance all these years to introduce a fair and fair game among entrepreneurs. If you had that and had the strength, had the courage, had the instrument that you introduced it from 2004 to 2008 probably wouldn't have been so much. Why are we talking about this? Because in Europe, we are recognised for making one of the best instruments and the best measures for impact and fair match among entrepreneurs. We can talk about a deficit like this or one. And I agree... that it's not good to have a major deficit, but when we don't have a fundamentally correct right in entrepreneurship that we all have to be even, we all have to be equal in a business game. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then all these other measures that you speak fall into the water. And I would be happy if you had introduced it and would have supported you in every way that we would have introduced a straight and fair match among entrepreneurs, and therefore these figures that show, show that in Croatia, which all the time, whether it was deliberate, I believe that it wasn't, but if you had the strength, this, as we did in 2013, introduce this measure, certainly deficit, would not have happened to us as they did today in 2013. Therefore, such measures should be taken in good times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82014	Honorable representative Ante Babic. Let go of the pitch. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Minister Lalovac, you're talking about execution, so I understand, about the implementation of the state budget, you're actually saying everything that's a feature that marked the 2013 budget. However, you said little about, let's say, GDP is actually lower by 1%, that GDP deflator growth was 0.9%, that the number of employees was around a million and 364 thousand, which is actually almost 30 thousand less than in 2012. You didn't talk about the total foreign debt, the annual inflation rate, which is 2.2%, etc., etc. What's really important to bring here is that the 2013 Budget Law actually limited the total government debt to 60% even though it passed 65% in 2013. It is also related to 2014 where it is limited to 62%, and it is actually increased. The question is, in fact, where is this responsibility under the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and is it necessary in this case and should someone then be given a mandate at their disposal? And then you were talking about the effects of fiscalization, the fact is, and as far as you know, you were saying in this House that there are incomes somewhere between 8 and 9 billion kunas and the question is actually where did that money go, where are actually taxes from those revenues? Maybe that fiscalization by you... it worked, it was actually economically definitely failed, and what you said, you said you were putting order in the field of the gray economy, I think it's not true, the order was probably being introduced in front of the hospital, in front of the Department of Employment, in front of the soup kitchen, and not only that, I think what hurts, that fight against the gray economy,...I think you fought any economy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82016	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82017	... Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Your Honor, what I was saying about these figures, I was talking about the economy being encouraged. And in this part of the burden, fostering the economy has taken over the state budget on itself. These measures I've been telling you about... profits, 99 thousand people who work in these companies for small entrepreneurs, reducing gross labour prices, these are all the measures I showed that in 2013 give results, to give 2014 and thank God, will give 2015. You have to give something to entrepreneurs and businesses in the 5th year of recession, I cannot endure and especially EU entry under great pressure and you know how many internal imbalances we have had. According to the European Commission's report, not what the Government of the Republic of Croatia wrote, internal imbalances on the burden, which happened to us in the economy, occurred before the economic crisis, before 2008, had occurred before and about these internal imbalances to encourage economic growth, the government gave to itself, took over the burden and put on the economy. The effects will be shown. The effects will be seen. And that's why I talked about the effects and the positive things that will come. This is something for us, and we hope that in 2014, when economic growth begins, these effects will be seen in full, and you know that they always come with years and two delays, but the direction is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82018	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82019	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you were talking about social sensitivity and incentive measures. In part of social sensitivity you spoke about support for families, households, which is unfortunately better if there were more jobs, and in encouraging measures you also talked about certain achievements, etc., but you did not mention a single very important segment in a word. You didn't mention farmers, family farms, and there would be much to say in this context. Since the drastic fall in support, that's the first thing that should have been said, and the other thing about social support, and other than those that failed the family holding, 67% last year were in the social category. This year, another 40,000 joined them, and there is certainly something to say in that part. And surely there was an irreparable damage here, and in an area of great potential and that repair is hard to expect. And what you're saying is that it's not fair and correct, it's not that 21% gets almost 80% of that support, and that 70% or something almost gets, it means 16%. That's the problem, and that's why this thing needs to be completely cleared up, and in that part of it, I warn you, that's one big problem and that you've done a huge one damage to our village, of course, to the even development of our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82020	Replication response, Honored Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82021	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow MP, I may not say, I didn't mention that you would answer because I like to communicate with you, especially in the area of agriculture. You know for a fact that the incentive policy in the agricultural sector is not just about subsidies. They show a number of research that the more we gave the subsidy, the less it is produced in Croatia. And then the fundamental question arises is it a real policy, is it a social policy or is it a policy of agriculture and production? The more money we give and the more Croatian citizens need to know if they give from increased VAT from increased revenues... transfers, less products. I would also like to come up with a key answer on how to increase agricultural production, not just to look at the revenue or expenditure side of the incentives. We have a great example of now taking advantage of these funds by entering the EU and subsidies will be given from the EU in the future, not from the Croatian budget. and here we will give full support to our farmers that the money is being drawn from Europe is unfortunately in that part of a very poor country for such incentives not only in agriculture but all with huge transfers and pressures on the budget we must and transfer and therefore we have entered Europe to be a common part of the policy and to draw money from them, but to use them to produce not for social transfers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82022	Dear Representative Darko Milinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82023	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, when you mentioned the expenditures of the state budget, you mentioned a health debt recovery of 3.3 billion kuna, and you said that we were saying it was a waste of money. We said it was a waste of money in a bag with no bottom. That this is how it says that despite this 3.3 billion kuna recovery, the health system has created a new debt between 4 and 5 billion kuna in 2.5 years. So we were saying that throwing in a bag is bottomless because of the suspension or absence of health reform. That this is what the 2011 deadline for prescription medicines was 90 days, and in two years it increased by 120% and today it is 180 to 200 days, and the law requires that the deadline be 60 days when Croatia enters the EU. The fact that the health system is missing now 150 to 200 million kuna per month says that at the end of this year you will have to reach for either a new task or a health system recovery. When we talk about the implementation of the state budget, I ask you to tell me here why the state budget from the general taxes did not make a transfer to the HZZO, which is 1% of the contribution to pensions of those who are more than 5,634 kuna, which is 50 million kuna, 32% of the tobacco spending is one billion kuna, 500 million kuna for the supplementary insurance of those who have been released from participation payments and 2 billion kuna in Article 63. The health care law. So based on the law I ask you to answer here why no transfer from the general taxes to HZZO... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82024	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82025	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I can give you a written answer to this last question of yours. It is currently too many items at this time to know the answer to each of your asked questions. But I can see that you're very good at dealing with minuses in health, probably because you've been seeing the same minuses all these years. I trust you that it wasn't easy for you. To any health minister the same as the Minister of Science is not easy because it's a large system, over 60 thousand people about 20 billion, everyone always wants a quality service. We can also talk about these figures in health care, by creating a minus on the left and right but without my opinion in health reform without any general consensus, neither side will be able to correct it. Is that what Croatia's citizens feel directly. So these negatives that you're mentioning today were happening both in your time and you know very well what these are on the daily level of minuses. These may not be the 2013 minuses, in fact, they may be identical in those past years. But health care is something we're looking for and it's a lot more than just accounting. Health care isn't just accounting and how much it's creating for us. Health care is a service that we're participating whether we're a social state or not. And that's why this kind of answer to give you just a technical answer has something moved to one side, I don't think it's enough. About health reform, I hope we find a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82026	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82027	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So my question and the replica of the minister to the exposure of health care and 2% reduction in order to help and facilitate the economy. 2% did not cause any improvement in the economic effects or retention of jobs as well as craftsmen or entrepreneurs. Twenty thousand turns off, five thousand new ones open. It's not any effect. And the health care went totally down. In health care you need to implement a new recovery given that debts are increased once more than they were before. Resuscitation was delayed in view of the general hospitals that only came at the end of the year or the beginning of the new one. So six months has been spent nothing regarding the recovery of general hospitals. For clinical trials, 500 million kunas were allocated at the beginning and later on, everything else. It is not true that it went into recovery only to settle debts rather than to make political changes to administrations, and current resolution managers have also caused more and more debts than they have recovered. Spend a new recovery, change everything and make reforms that will benefit health care and use it for your health budget, use it to ensure that Croatian citizens have the right and adequate healthcare to really reduce waiting lists and not work over the line. Do not use healthcare funds to buy a new fleet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82028	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82029	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, as you know, the reduction of 2% points did not directly affect the transfer for health care because health care gets money within its limits. So if they weren't from this part, they were getting from the VAT section. so that direct reductions of 2% index points are not and cannot affect less delivery in health because health care is covered by its limit in the budget as far as it is concerned. So we wanted to encourage entrepreneurship, see what measures we've done to encourage entrepreneurship. What you said was just before and my answer to the question, health care needs to have a consensus because health care is a social state, whether we're a social state or not. And that is where no matter where the bench we sit is, it is a key question and which service we will serve Croatian citizens and at what price we will answer. This should certainly include a much wider circle of people, not just the answers of the finance minister or some other ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82030	Honorable representative Đuro Popiè, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82031	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Minister, in 25 minutes of your presentation, we've been listening to a kind of political speech in the most part, and at least you've talked about what it is and what it is for, so the 2013 budget. In addition, you tried to explain to the public and to entrepreneurs what you did for them in 2013 but the results are obvious in the budget and also in the state of the Croatian economy. You obviously do not listen to what Croatian entrepreneurs say today and it all comes down to saying that they have never done business under difficult conditions. And that's the result of what you've been doing for the past 2.5 years. You are also talking about fiscalizing and introducing order and a fair and fair way of doing business. And what about pre-fashion deals? What you did here compared to a fairer and fairer relationship in an economy where you forgiven hundreds of millions of kunas and where you mainly threw middle and small entrepreneurship on your knees. And when it comes to fiscalization I have, and what you announce will be a Croatian export product, I just don't know who, when you go to Austria, Germany or Switzerland there, so you don't practically get bills or get on... paper, budget and tax revenues, no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when you're talking about this export product, I ask you who made the fiscalization software, who owns that software, and who sells it at the end if you intend to and if you succeed in selling it to anyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82032	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll start with this last one, I have no idea who's doing the software. It's, uh, software works on the market whoever it is. So we didn't make up our mind like other countries did that they took one register and bought it from one supplier. We didn't do that. We used to be every craftsman who had his own, who had his own cash register to choose his own supplier. And what has proved to be Croatian entrepreneurs are innovative in developing good applicative solutions. And it turned out because we released a market where many entrepreneurs entered the area and they offered a service to all other entrepreneurs. There were no monopolys and therefore the price was lower and therefore Croatian entrepreneurs are extremely, extremely innovative in new IT solutions. And that's what we want to offer tomorrow to colleagues in both the Czech Republic and other countries, Italy, Slovenia and Hungary. Croatian counterparts, Croatian IT industry, Croatian software players who prepared the project. So that's what we're talking about. When you say I was speaking politically and you didn't understand me well, so I don't know if you understood this information that I was talking about raising capital because I'm talking about political speech, about concrete numbers about what was done for entrepreneurship. But that what I've been saying all the time, not today, is about the problem of entrepreneurship and unfortunately the shattered real-estate business as the main generator for the growth of the economy, the problem of the construction sector, it's a crucial problem of real estate management that we can't sell today. And that's where we... Big debts, and that's why banks can't lend loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, go through Zagreb, go through another one, see how many unfinished, unfinished properties you have because real estate has been speculated. And unfortunately, there's been a real-estate crisis, and the most difficult thing we're getting out of the crisis is because of this structural problem of the economy. And I offered solutions but here we need a solution both to central banks and bankers to help entrepreneurs in their real estate business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82034	Thank you very much. And now respected representative Martina Dalic, a replica of the public auditor's presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82035	Thank you very much. Well, I would actually like to ask the Chief State Auditor to explain one part of the report and I believe that there will be a lot of words about the overall report, given that it is extensive and that it points to a number of problems in the management of the state budget and also at the limit of consistent application of the provisions of the law. I would ask you to comment and explain part of the report relating to the trading of HANDA shares. Namely, according to the Property Management Act owned by the Republic of Croatia, state property, participants owned by persons founded by the Republic of Croatia. HANDA is the founder, HANDA is the founder of the Republic of Croatia. We learned in the execution that there was a transaction for the purchase of JANAF shares and between HANDA and CERRP which is both the founder of the Republic of Croatia and which both have the property of state property. How is it possible that state bodies that need to manage and represent the interest of the Republic of Croatia have come up with the idea of trading it. The State Audit Office itself has found that this is actually about non-transparent debt. So I'm interested in two things. In the case of non-transparent debt, why the state office did not order the Ministry of Finance to exclude the mentioned 602 million kuna from revenue and thus clearly and correctly show a deficit because the amount of money recorded is recognised among the revenues. And I'm going to talk more detail on behalf of the club. Second, how the State Audit Office, which is obliged to control the consistent application of the provisions of the law, is looking and commenting on the fact that the state authorities traded each other with state assets. To each other. Whether in the following cases we can expect any other transactions, the purchase of state property between the ministries, among which any agencies that will explicitly violate the provisions of the laws which say that all the assets held by the institutions of the Republic of Croatia are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82036	Replica response, respected chief state auditor Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82037	Dear Representative Dalic, here's the answer. We've described this section on page 47 and 48 of our report, and as far as we're concerned, we're going to do a special review on HANDA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82038	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. We move to a discussion by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament for 20 minutes. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representatives, MP Martina Dalic and Ivan Šuker share the time. Honorable representative Martina Dalic first. They've already reported a replica of your exposure from your club, I don't know what you didn't agree with your colleague? ... Well, no, no, the question is, can the replica be reported before exposure? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I couldn't have a colleague. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That machine, not me. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82039	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would really like to return the debate on the implementation of the 2013 budget in a certain way to the framework of the topic we are discussing, which is budget implementation and budget itself. The budget currently in front of us and in fact the execution we are discussing is the result of two rebalancings during 2013. And what I want to remind you of is that the budget with the result that we're talking about today actually came into existence and is completely contrary to what the government was planning at the beginning. Minister Lalovac talked about how this budget implies and shows great order. The implementation of this budget and what it says in the State Audit report is exactly the opposite, and one of the arguments that we can't speak in any way about order is the fact that we started in 2013 with a budget plan and a deficit plan of 10.8 billion kuna, ending at 16.2 with significant doubts about the correctness of recording the revenues of the state budget, as stated by the State Audit. It's a serious remark. And when we talk about what the actual result of this budget is then the minister himself called for EUROSTAT's methodology, and for 2013, it is possible to find on EUROSTAT that the deficit of the state budget is 17.9 billion. Therefore, we here could play through methodologies all day long, but what is important and what we read as a basic message of this budget is that there are major problems in its implementation, that the State Audit is expressing significant doubts about the accuracy of individual accounting in the budget, which I keep in the country which is a member of the European Union inaccessible and there are major and significant issues as to what is happening and what is happening in the financing account. How, why and why the state budget is due, given the huge difference between the necessary debt, the debt achieved, the state budget balance in the National Bank, etc., which I will talk about in more detail. However, the message is another one, for this year I can't miss that, especially since the minister pointed out that the effects of what was done last year would be seen, then I can't miss without asking and noting that in the first four months of this year the budget deficit was 7.4 billion kuna. The plan is 13.6. Last year, in the first four months, the deficit was 6.5 billion and we ended up on these 16.2 whose accuracy we do not believe and we have evidence from the State Audit that this amount is higher. What's the deficit this year if in the first four months more than last year when we planned 10, it ended at 16.2 or more. How long till we're done this year? We therefore have a deep suspicion that the Republic of Croatia will fulfil its obligations in the context of the excessive deficit procedure and these are the things that we would like the ministers here to comment on, rather than to teach us the great results of the economic policy which the effects are not seen because the revenues are taxed in 4 months this year than in 2012, smaller than in 2013. The VAT is smaller. After raising the rate by 2 percentage points, after raising the rate from 0 to 5 you have income from VAT in the first 4 months less than in 2013 and than in 2012. I don't think your self-satisfaction about the great effects of economic policy and fiscal instruments has any place to charge. We suspect the accuracy of the result, we suspect the accuracy of the registration in the state budget. One reason is the recognition of the borrowing incomes between CERRP and HANDA, i.e. the borrowing of CERRP in order to buy shares from HANDA that are in one way or another state property under the Law on State Property Management, that is state property. And what state bodies have to trade with each other. When the CERP was also the successor of the State Asset Management Agency, which acquired transfer contracts for the management of assets and did not, for example, purchase state property from the Ministry of Finance. The CERP's borrowing with some avalanche bonds is transactions that raise strong doubts and large questionnaires. However, what I would particularly like you to respond to and explain in 2013 required a debt of 34.2 billion kuna, of which 3 were to come from privatisation. So, the required task was 31. A 42.6 billion kuna debt has been accomplished. We have changed the law and it is good that the budget can be owed in advance for simpler financing of the debts due at the beginning of the year. However, I want to know why the Ministry of Finance was in charge of Merrill Lynch in the third month of this year for 200m euros, why it was in debt from the Sber Bank for 50m euros in 9 months, from the Split Bank for 50m euros in 9 months when, for example, the state budget balance in the National Bank was at the end of 8 months at 2 billion and 800 euros in foreign exchange, at the end of 9 months 2 billion 192. Why did the Ministry of Finance in the short term charge in 12 months from Goldman Sachs for 200m euros when the foreign exchange account situation at the end of 12 months was 10.7 billion kuna and in late January 10.5. What is the reason for these short-term loans, and why are interest payments paid on them? I understand what liquidity management is and I understand what providing funds and resources is for timely repayment of government debt. But the average balance in the finance ministry's account over the last year was 6 billion kuna, and total foreign exchange and kuna 8 and a half billion kuna. Whether the Ministry of Finance is taking, my question is whether the Ministry of Finance is needlessly using a provision aimed at more regular and easier and simpler debt management and safer payments. Whether the Ministry of Finance actually owes the Republic of Croatia very casually and needlessly, and then pays the interest, because I do not see the meaning of these short-term loans. I don't see the point of taking a short-term loan in 12 months with a maturity in March. At the beginning of the government's mandate, it was said that the government would be in debt from international financial institutions under more favourable conditions. Out of $42 billion in debt, 827 is 2% of international financial institutions. What is left of the plan and the intention to target budget financing towards international financial institutions and ultimately use the fact that we are a member of the EU and we can also use more abundant lines than the European Investment Bank. I would like to know why the state debt analyst says that the state budget has credited the financial institution outside the public sector of 7.6 billion kuna. Who did they give these money to, where's your money, what does that mean? Which means one line in the budget. That's what it says. And finally, the last subject before I give my word to my colleague Shucker is the issue of guarantees. The guarantee protests were carried out for Croatia airlines, HZ Cargo, HZ Infrastructure and HZ passenger transport, i.e. these protests are actually paid for the state loans given to HZ with state guarantees because they are artificially and artificially shown reductions in state expenditure in such a way that instead of clearly and transparently showing in the budget how much money this company spends, this business is done by giving state guarantees, and then these guarantees are paid through these protests. So, again, nothing of transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82040	Continuing on behalf of the club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82041	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, Mr. Chief State Auditor with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So let me just pick up where my colleague Dalic stopped. I'd very much like to have heard from the minister of fiscalization's effect in nominal terms, then it would be a real effect. And this is how when you talk about percentages, I will remind you only colleagues and colleagues that in 2013 a zero VAT rate was abolished and in tax accounting what was with a zero rate was not conducted. So what was going on with the zero rate automatically raised traffic. Secondly, it would be good to say because of the Croatian public that we understand each other. Any introduction of order will support anyone normal in this country so that this story of fiscalization. It was a project that you mostly inherited from us one part, you funded it. So let's let the stories go. But it would be good if you pointed out how much the percentage of gross domestic product is affected by those affected by the fiscalisation if you shut down the big trade chains. Then you'll come up with one expression that it's a very small percentage, and this is how when you say someone reports this much higher income, it looks pretty good, but the data is only good when you say nominally how much has gone into the state budget. You can't see nominally because as we can see, the revenues in the state budget are lower by a billion and 600 million than planned. But we're going to the State Audit report. Unlike this commendable report on the implementation of the budget, which we as a club will not support the State Audit Report will be supported for several reasons. Because first of all it was made in accordance with the law. I would like to remind my colleagues and colleagues that we have put in the law that, when submitting the report on the implementation of the budget, the State Audit is submitted. But this is not the big Report on Budgetary Users, but the report that controls the accounting records of events that took place in the State Treasury in the budget of budgetary users and financial transactions and, in accordance with the positive legal regulations, gives its opinion. And on the basis of this opinion of the State Audit, I have made a skepticism that the deficit of the state budget is unfortunately more than 18.5 billion kuna in 2013. And that's how I'm going to explain from another document that's an integral part of what we're discussing today in this House of Commons, which is, above all, what I expect from the State Review that someone in this country will finally be given a court of law that's on some state of health date. How much is that debt? Well, we've been fighting so much for years. We're resuscitating him, and we're constantly down. Because it's very interesting, if we spent 21 billion on health care recovery last year, then we're planning 21 billion this year. Then it means we've created minuses this year. But it's as it is. What is very interesting, and I sincerely hope that in other State Audit reports it will be widely explained, and this is this famous pre-profit settlement and write-off of tax debt with calculated interest. It says in this report on page 25 that 5 billion and 259 million kuna were written off. And that it's written off, as far as it's concerned, either by breaking into ownership or by part of the property, and also by 200 and another million, actually 187 million Ministry of Finance has written off claims for the payment of guarantees and the corresponding interest of 187 million kuna. Why am I saying that? So because issuing certain guarantees and converting into capital has a significant impact on the state budget. So also the story of the famous property register published by DUDI, colleagues and colleagues read only on page 36 and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on page 37, so you will see that there is nothing of the announced pompous register, that something has already been prescribed, which already existed only on one pile but very difficult to apply. And after all, a lot of things aren't done right. And now I come to what my colleague Dalic said, but since the Croatian insurance transaction was practically carried out in 2014 then I wouldn't even comment on it. I sincerely hope that when we discuss the 2014 Report and discuss some other transactions that we will then get a closer explanation of this famous transaction where with the purchase you become the owner of 60, but then. It is very interesting, however, that we paid a million and 800 for consulting services for the privatisation of the Post office Bank, and 5 million and 60 kuna insurance for Croatia. The Croatian bank is privatised, the Post Bank is not privatised. However, colleagues and colleagues on page 42 and 43 are clearly described in the Handa-CERP transaction. It is, therefore, a budgetary and extra-financial user. The budget user got the money for something and it was shown as the revenue of the 600 million budget, which is 200 million less than what it was meant to be. And the out-of- budget user got the state guarantee so he could pay those shares and then the guarantee was protested in 2014. And the whole story of rounding up is clear just to invent an artificial income of 600 million kuna because the guarantees to an extra budget user don't go into cost. But what he pays goes to the state budget. And it is evident that, with this basis, expenditure actually increased the deficit of the state budget in 2013 by those 607 million kuna. And that it is even bigger for some amounts you can see on page 47 of the State Audit where the days are very strange guarantees for Croatian railways. And you can imagine when the state gives a guarantee, and the business banks will not give credit to Croatian railways based on the state guarantee that the risk the state has put into. But therefore, on the spending side of the subsidy budget and support for Croatian railways is reduced by 800 and some more million kuna. And we have a smaller budget for that amount. But we've given guarantees that will be charged in 2 or 3 years, and then someone else on that basis will have an increased deficit. It's that famous story about 2011 when guarantees for shipbuilding were put in, etc. However, it is very interesting that, on the basis of the decision to take commitments for the loan and the amount of a billion and 595 million conversion by the claim for the guarantees paid in the share, it is 101 million and 461 thousand capital of the public goods company of the Croatian Railways and Infrastructures. So, for those billions and a half, we entered the capital of society, that society is not worth it. We didn't increase that company's worth a billion-and-a-half, she's already bought something with that loan and already has some value. So we basically artificially recapitalised a society that wasn't worth that much. So these are all certain accounting transactions that are not good because if the predecessors are accused of this and that and there was an opportunity for the 2012 budget, in 2013 to bring things down to zero and to build this up like this. Honestly, colleagues and colleagues, I would personally be afraid that the State Audit would write me a report like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82042	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. The esteemed representative Martina Dalic has 7 replicas, and the esteemed colleague, Ivan Šuker, has 2 replicas. In turn, the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Ivan Miloch's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82043	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear fellow Dalic, there is one unique answer to several of your rhetorical questions, and that is the introduction of order. According to the introduction of the order, the current government has become globally known. The world's most influential financial and economic media are also talking about it. Unfortunately, this is pure irony, of course, and unfortunately the world's most influential economic media has a real impact on all of those investors, and we are not in our public debt, but generally investors who view Croatia as a new member of the European Union today, whether it comes or will bypass us, and of course it also has an impact on the whole economy. But we need to point out here that we don't need financial times, that's what it's about to tell us. Because HDZ's representatives have been saying over and over 2.5 years that and where Croatia's economy is going to make moves of the current government and non-problems, too often fails to talk about what the current government has been missing for the past 2.5 years. Where our economy will lead us, all of what the government is doing. So, on the one hand, there has been no structural reform in the past 2.5 years unless we call real reforms continuous changes in the tax system. So it is unmarkable that in the same year, the same tax, the same tax, raises, raises, constantly announces other taxes, new taxes. So, under these conditions, it is quite certain that not only will foreigners not come, it will not invest, but Croatian entrepreneurs will not invest, although many will leave Croatia and that is what we have been warning of for 2 years, this is obviously never easier than when Croatia is a lot of EU legal members. And finally, what is evident is that the current government has completely failed, which is in the preservation of the national economy. There is, for example, an excellent indicator, which is the lack of funds for economic co-operation. Instead, and we talked about it over the past year, two days, instead of the funds of economic cooperation being used to save jobs, not just jobs, but industry and the entire industrial sectors such as DIOKI or Gredelj, we are left to see and see all these companies fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82044	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82045	Just allow me one sentence, which is, it is evident that the Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and other economic ministers have not spent enough time at the State Statistics Office. If they had spent more time there, we would surely have achieved economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82046	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82047	He just wants to say to my colleague Milosevic, my questions are not rhetorical, my questions are questions that require concrete answers. So that Mr. Minister wouldn't accidentally accept your replica. So why is it in the short term, why are loans taken, what are they for, to whom loans from the state budget are granted, 7.6 billion kuna, for which interest is actually paid, and then also said that a heavy burden has been left to this government and how is this managed by public debt, and why has the debt been increased in the last year 35 billion? And the minister here says the deficit was 16, and anyone who deals with this business knows that about the growth of the debt corresponds to the growth of the deficit, so if we add to that the minister is in charge of a safer loan payment at the beginning of this year, we come up with a figure of about 25.26 billion kuna. It remains unexplained that the debt has been increased by another 10. These are all questions to which I expect a concrete and not a rhetorical answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82048	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82049	You say esteemed colleagues, and you've pointed out multiple times that you could play different methodologies, that you doubt these data, that you don't believe them, you've repeated it many times, and I really believe that because you measure yourself with the same elbow. When you were teaching power, you announced that the deficit was 15 billion and we found that it wasn't, but 27 billion. You object to Mr. Minister's self-satisfaction, you think it's obvious that it's a complacency we only reserve for you. But I think in politics, it's not about any self-satisfaction is self-satisfaction especially in politics is the most devastating thing. However, the fact is that they have been given what it is and the minister's duty to bring out the data that you obviously do not like. However, they are such that they have just indicated that everything that has been done so far has been done in an almost impossible situation. In the last 4 months, unemployment has been reduced by as many as 80,00 people. The number of legal persons employed has increased on an annual basis. It grows five months in a row industrial production. Real GDP has increased by 0.4%. Personal consumption has increased. Croatia's exports increased by 8.5% in the first 3 months of this year. As far as EU funds are concerned, more than 5 hundred billion euros were agreed for this period alone, so almost twice as much as it was done for the 4 years of your government's mandate. Over 58 parafiscal duties have been abolished, reducing the total burden by more than half a billion kuna per year. The tourist season is just now, promising according to the data a record amount. Debt salaries were reduced by 6% and salaries by state and public officials. And so finally, what the special minister said, which you specifically did, your colleagues, did not care to list exactly how many civil servants and tenants there are at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82050	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82051	Thank you very much. So I'd ask you to explain to me then the esteemed colleagues of Ingrid, if all of this is true and if all that you've listed is happening in our real life, I'd like it to be so, why is the value added tax in the first 4 months less than in the first 4 months of 2012, and of course I'm not talking, but also the first 4 months of last year. If things are going better, how can you not see it? Because tax revenue is nothing more than a financial indicator of real world events, which you have within a relatively short period and you don't have to wait five or six months for statistics to show you, prove it, etc. So, it's not about self-satisfaction, it's about the same subject that we had last year when we warned at the same time that it's not going well and that it takes measures to keep the state budget and state finances in some planned frameworks. You planned 10.8% yourself at the time. The Minister of Finance said we were scaring the people. The result was Plan 10.8, execution 16.2 with all these other questionnaires. And so this year, it doesn't work, Mrs. Ingrid, in the direction in which it's planned, and it's not exactly brilliant and brilliant in nature. And on the deficit, I have already told you many times, dear God anyway, because you all know that 10 billion kunas are registered in 2011 from the boatbuilding guarantees you are boasting about how you restructured shipbuilding and introduced Croatia into the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82052	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, fellow, a few things have offered me a replica of you. First of all, when you mention the deficit, we have to call things our real name. If we analyze what the deficit is going to be, what it's about. So what they did is then you can see that 60% of the deficit goes to previous debts, so 9.8 billion kuna. That it's a huge, huge part of the deficit means that it's generated this year. Health recovery 3 billion. The deficit could have been reduced to 0 if you were reading the indicators available, that the money had not been left to the economy, so through the non-taxable, reinvested profit, through HABOR, etc., etc., we could have reduced it to 0, but at what cost. The second thing, you were saying isn't everything great, it's not, we have to admit, and because of objective circumstances, it doesn't all go the way we want it to. But it's not all as black as you want to show it. First of all, I'd like to talk about exports here. Exports in the first 3 months increased 8.5% compared to last year, so now amounts to 17.1 billion kuna. Imports only increased 2.6% at the same time. The foreign trade deficit in the first quarter of this year is 11.9 billion which is 4.7% less than last year when it was 12.5 billion. When we talk about parafiscal charges from 181 to the end of this year, 58 parafiscal burdens between 30 and 50% will be abolished or significantly reduced, reducing the total parafiscal burden by more than half a billion kuna per year. So that's the same thing we're talking about money that stays in the economy. Industrial production has been growing for 5 months in a row, for the first time since 2009. In May, it grew as much as 1.2% year-on-year. So it's not all black and everything's not as bad as you want to show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82054	From your... rank, respected MPs Martina Dalic, I have concluded that you will respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82055	Thank you very much. So since you've already gone into analysis how, of which, and why the deficit occurred and you mentioned the amount of interest, then I just want to tell you that since 2011 the account of interest has increased by 3 billion kuna because the interest paid in 2011 was 7 billion and 97 million kuna. And now we've come to one count of 10 billion. This difference of 3 billion kuna is due to the management of public finances which neither I nor HDZ had any influence. And I was telling you, my colleague, about these very strange issues and the very strange relaxation of the Ministry of Finance in terms of borrowing, taking short-term loans and one vague management of public debt. These things can still be much better planned. I am accepting and respecting and a difficult situation in the financial market and uncertainty, but I cannot understand why a short-term loan is taken at 12 months when a bond debt has been executed immediately before. I guess someone's gonna explain it to me. It is true and we are satisfied, and I am satisfied and we see these positive indicators happening in the first part of this year, and I believe that this is to the most significant extent the result of the overruning of positive trends from the EU, and here I agree with Vice President Greece, but the problem is, fellow, is that there are no results in the budget, that is the problem and that is the question of how and why? How and why the budget goes downhill, and as you claim positive trends occur in the economy. It can't go with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82056	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82057	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Dalic, I would like to try to sum up my replica in a few thoughts like this. RH has, she needs to pay off about 36 billion kuna, we have 18, 18 needs somewhere to go. 18 are contributions. We have a million and about 400 thousand employees who need to finance 4 million and 200 thousand health care users. These are the problems that exist now and which, when you mention the deficit, something colleague Hajdukovic was talking about, which is the structure and how it could have been reduced to actually 0. And what is often said, in fact, the deficit itself is not as much a problem of the Republic of Croatia as the problem is all that is mentioned here, and this is what needs to encourage us, and that is the increase in exports. However, when we talk about exports, then we cannot mention the exchange rate of kuna, and when we talk about the exchange rate of kuna, then we cannot not mention loans, either private persons, any natural persons, or legal persons. When we talk about loans, then we go back to that, and you're now responding to a 9.8 billion-dollar reply that we need to pay. So these are all connected vessels that affect each other. When you talk about the decline in income, last year there was a reduction in the rate of health contributions from 15% to 13% and an increase in the limit for VAT entry from 85,000 to 230 thousand, and that certainly caused the VAT revenues to fall. These are the reasons we can observe when we look at the decline in income, but surely the figures he issued here and the minister are saying that the situation is not so black and that things are moving but of course we need a slightly longer period of time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82058	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82059	Thank you, Mr. President. When Minister Dalic submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of last year's budget, then I believe he should have said first and foremost that the budget was planned on certain macroeconomic indicators as you well know, the budget for last year was planned for the 1.8 GDP race. And the contribution is that the GDP decline last year ended with 1% of GDP. And instead of being introduced by the finance minister to the Croatian public and Croatian MPs, explain why the government has made so many mistakes in assessing the growth of the Croatian economy in a year and to indicate what these reasons were that the government failed in its intention and plan to achieve GDP growth, we listen from Mr. Minister of Finance to the praise of the effects of fiscalisation in the Republic. It would have been better if the government had poured its ashes and had said we had failed to implement reforms in the public sector, in health care, in all public enterprises, so we did not succeed in the plan that we had foreseen and explained what these reasons were and gave basic indications on how this would be done this year. I'm saying, instead, we're hearing praises about fiscalization and the effects of fiscalization. When you mentioned the debt in your presentation, I would remind you that the government was in charge between Christmas and New Year's Eve for an additional 4 billion kuna, and within which the debt was also a questionable transaction between the CERP and the HANDA, so that it would be good if the government had come to the Croatian Parliament or at least today when we are talking again about state finances that it has met us and how it thinks to bring a borrowing and public debt management strategy. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82060	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82061	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Dalic, you actually deliberately mixed the pots in your debate when you were talking about introducing order. So the minister talked about the government's moves to bring order into the economy and the market, which, of course, reflected both the revenues and expenditures of the budget, and you were talking about order in the budget books. So you realized that there were irregularities detected by the State Audit Office as there were years ago. So the state budget has never received a different opinion from the conditional one. He didn't win, as far as I know he didn't. So when he talked about introducing order in the economy and the market, the minister documented it with a fiscalisation project, so he said. that the registered income of craftsmen in 2013 increased as much as 35%, with what is very important to me moving this increase in certain counties and up to 85% therefore in Sibenik-Kninska or 30% in Zagreb. He also documented this consumption tax data that increased 48%, so that's the income that belongs entirely to cities and municipalities, and that's important to us. So, what are we saying? Can we even talk about the equality of entrepreneurs on the market if situations like this happen that no one reports income or income or pays public commitments to the state? Thus, by introducing order, this government establishes equal operating conditions for all entrepreneurs in particular both in reporting income and in reporting income and in subsidising public contributions, so that there are no more ones who pay neatly as my Međimurians do, for example, and that others do not pay, so they feel the fools first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82062	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82063	... about which each one of us has a premonition. [[Speech is not enabled.]] If the minister was talking about the way order was introduced in the economy, I only ask how when the minister was able to bring order into the economy, he was unable to bring order into his house because somehow it seems most logical that a man should always go from himself, and then expect the Ministry of Finance to have the perfect order and, among other things, to be seen in the correctness, accuracy and consistent respect of the law in the processes relating to the implementation of the state budget. There's nothing more sacred than public money. And the Ministry of Finance reported that state guarantees were issued more than is provided for by the Budget Implementation Act, the State Audit also noted. The State audit also stated that there is a vague criterion in the recording of different types of income, that some of the revenues in its essence are due, that some of the loans are shown in the financing account, which refers to the shipbuilding already mentioned, and that some of these loans are simply not shown in the financing account. My colleagues, Jelash, these are serious remarks that question every normal person to wonder what's going on there. And whether the Ministry of Finance has adequate capacities, human, human, humane, professional to do this job. And there are years of colleagues, Jelash, in which the state budget received the unconditional opinion of the Ministry of Finance and I urge you to find out who they are and we will continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82064	Here is a new opportunity to discuss the replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82065	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your colleague Dalic, in your presentation, wondered what the real deficit of the state budget was and that you doubted in fact the accuracy of the enrollment in the state budget mentioning short-term responsibilities. As far as I know, that debt increase was somewhere around 771m euros, which actually resulted in short-term loans. In the case of guarantees, they were issued from 1 January to 31 December 2013. Six billion and 43 million kuna. Considering what's actually going to happen when those guarantees get paid. Is that a deficit increase? In fact, the deficit will be increased if public companies are added again after the new EU deficit calculation. Knowing that the entire budget of the Republic of Croatia was actually based on the growth of economic activities as far as I know 1.8% for 2013. Since it is known that energy prices, taxes and similar things have increased, there was no real basis or basis for increasing the state budget. And something else about what you were talking about. The Commission for Fiscal Policy concluded that the fiscal rule for 2013 was not met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82066	We are going to the replica of the respected representative Marin Jurjevic, the respected representative Ivan Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82067	Comrade Shuker, here's what you're this experienced politicians and we have a lot of experience about it, so maybe you'll agree to what I'm about to say and maybe you won't, but I don't think things are going to improve in our society until the opposition starts to praise when something good is done by the government and when the government doesn't start accepting well-meaning criticism or opposition proposals. So I think that you and I are a good example of those who should do so, given that we are more experienced than many others. Why am I saying that? So here's listening to this discussion here when it comes to fiscalization, now what you're looking for is what the hair in the egg would say. I have now heard for the first time that this is actually a HDZ project that this government has managed to realise. The team should commend this authority more, and it's an honor for you to realize what we didn't do but we started or we intended or just suggested it. It is an honor for you because it is supported by 99% of Croatian citizens because they do not want to steal them, because they do not want to steal them. If someone was tax evasion, he was stealing. If some, as I know some butiges, some catering facilities by 1000% have now increased tax payments or to some county 80%, in some 30 etc., then it is clear that order is being introduced. And I think that's something to be commended for. And I'm also thinking about pre-profit deals if unions and workers say it's good to save companies that would fail. Well, it's a good thing they're forgiven because they'd go down like that, and this is how you save a tax-paying company, save jobs, that's good intensity. But I'm running out of time. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82068	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't see why you're replicating me because I've been giving facts about fiscalization and I've also said the fact. However, there is one HDZ project that is much stronger, much better than fiscalisation, which is the OIB. Why is he puking? Why hasn't he implemented himself in his full power? We brought the law to implementation, it was later to be implemented. And not today, every ministry for itself is back doing some kind of data collection story, everyone's running from the central register. Why? Is anyone afraid that they will bring down some moral sizes in the Republic of Croatia? The OIB is the strongest instrument for fighting corruption. And why did I tell the minister to present the nominal indicators? Because if we eliminate these big trading chains then you'll see that those who are affected by the OIB, and I said, anyone who wants to make order has support. That's not what I said here once, that's what I said here. But the effect of fiscalization is unfortunately not seen in the budget. The caterers can't make so much traffic that they're reducing the gap between the rates from 25 to 10%. What they used to pay VAT on 400,000 kunas now has to make a million kunas of traffic to pay the exact same VAT or to pay them back a complete pre-tax. That's the facts. And you also look into accounting, and you'll see that with a zero rate, it wasn't recorded, and that's a big reason why total traffic has increased so much. However, there is no need for the two of us who are one completely different education to discuss certain technical matters in this way. But if you noticed from the HDZ Club, we support everything that's good. But we don't like you playing the game behind our backs like you did with the Pre-bank settlement Act, so after a week, you changed 45 articles to government provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82070	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82071	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, I too have been offered a fiscalization to replicate. You mentioned it, and now you're re-responsing the replica about how the project was also your government, the HDZ. Actually, there's nothing controversial about it if that's the case. What is disputed is that there remained large amounts of unpaid tax claims, so here are the results of the fiscalisation in the last year published by the tax administration said that in the catering industry 40% increased... taxable deliveries of 2.6 billion kuna more than in 2012. Physical persons reported 55% and 1.5 billion kunas more taxable deliveries than in 2012. In the store, this is 14% or 5.2 billion kuna more than in 2012 and 28% and 1.5 billion kuna have been reported by individuals. So these data are available and these are the effects of fiscalization that talk about preventing, suppressing the gray economy. It's one of the effects of fiscalization. The second effect, here it was mentioned, because fair and correct struggle because surely the one who pays neatly his obligations is not in the same relationship with the one who does not. Thirdly perhaps the most important thing, which is actually the message of fiscalization and this is the message compared to the previous time because when the fiscalization project appeared we read, these are journalists, serious journalists in the serious newspaper wrote that it is actually impossible that the entrepreneur would survive on the market if he paid the state his taxes. He simply has to have one part of the gray economy in order to survive. And it's actually the whole absurd and the whole danger and the introduction of fiscalization and the introduction of order actually suggests to people that it's just better for them to respect, to pay off, because then they increase their credit ability, they increase everything that helps them in their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82072	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82073	Comrade Sagar, if you say that the traffic has increased by 8.5 billion, count on that 25% of VAT, then by 2 billion VAT revenues are increasing. If you account for an average of 25% of the income tax rate, because it is more or less about income, because for that amount, if their turnover is increased, it is probably at least 50% of that amount of income. That's an extra billion kuna. Now these billions of kunas, about 300-400 million were supposed to come into the state budget, and somewhere around 600-700 million were supposed to end up in local self-government units. But it's undeniable that it's a project that we are, I say no one has anything against it, but there's no need to glorify it by percentages because I'm saying if you eliminate big trade chains, caterers, merchants, those who work in cash, etc., they make you maybe 1.5-2% of GDP. So their total share of GDP is very small, so that's what this is about. But that's why the second instrument, now we're talking about the OIB, someone's been saving it, why I don't know. And the other thing, it wasn't tax hidden, each one was recorded, and it was properly accounted for by interest. So you can't say that someone was trying to protect someone. How can you protect someone if you put them on, write down a tax liability? How can you protect him? And that obligation can't be erased without a solution, so how will you protect someone? Somebody explain it to me. But it's the easiest thing to do with numbers. Someone said they'd charge 5 billion kuna out of the taxes they didn't pay, and we solved the problem of the government budget deficit. It charged 300-400 million kuna. So just remember the big... about publishing the list of debtors. What's the effect of that? You have exactly the same law, the 2002 Law on outstanding claims, what is the effect? 400 million kuna. The same was said about large amounts. Some things are a matter of profession, you don't need them...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82074	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the turn of the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and a respected colleague of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82075	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers with an associate and chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia has been struggling for five years with an economic crisis that is not only due to the global financial and economic crisis of 2008, but has been potentiated by a poor economic structure and a policy that did not respect the transition problems monitored by the Croatian economy. The previous period, so before the crisis, followed a relatively high economic growth driven by high consumption based on borrowing. Building operations based on road construction, but also largely on expensive real estate transactions, which are also largely financed by expensive bank loans. Unfortunately, no action has been taken in the beginnings of the crisis for its recovery. On the contrary, in the first months and years it has been denied that the crisis exists at all. The state budget and its implementation cannot be discussed realistically unless the total economic flows are analysed. And what are the scales and consequences of the crisis in Croatia I will illustrate with several macroeconomic data, comparing the last year before the 2008 and 2013 crisis that we are discussing on budget implementation. During that period, the total revenues of entrepreneurs fell by 97 billion kuna, and only in three trade activities, construction jobs and the processing industry by as much as 91 billion. Companies lost capital and cuts worth 62 billion kuna, investments fell 48% or 52 billion kuna investment was lost in those years. Individence was booming and in just two crisis years it grew drastically, it doubled. Blocked companies had blocked funds in accounts over or about 45 billion kuna, while at the same time citizens among them the most craftsmen of more than 20 billion kuna. Under such conditions, economic policy should be changed by taking short and long-term measures to resuscitate the situation, which has not been taken to the greatest extent and has only started with this new mandate. At the beginning of the mandate, the main objectives are defined. This is a reduction in liquidity, a reduction in the tax burden of the economy, as well as raising awareness that obligations must be paid. So this enormous indifference is shown through blocked companies, but also an enormous debt to the state budget that has been accumulated there since the early 1990s was almost 50 billion kuna. The promotion of exports, the rise in competitiveness and capitalisation of business entities, the management of public debt in a way not only to reprogramme the commitments made but to begin to decrease because interest is largely affecting the level of deficits. The new budgetary policy objectives related to the reduction of expenditure relating to salary and material expenditure have also been defined, the retention of pension levels with the return of annual harmonisations, etc. indexations, and retaining the level of social transfers, reducing the debt of the health system in the amount of around 5 billion kunas then found. And when it comes to the budget in Croatia, it should be taken into account that much of the population depends on budget transfers, and their receipts are barely enough for a minimum standard. It is theoretically known that the economy is moving from recession to growth only by increasing overall social efficiency. For years, we have detected causes, but we slowly and ineffectively remove them. It is only during this term that more serious reforms affecting the labour market begin, lower labour burden, tax reform that reduces tax ejaculation, public administration reform, justice, health care, social welfare. The measures taken so far show some results on the macro plan and some results already visible in 2013 and the trend continues in this year as well. Comparing some of these data compared to 2012 it is evident that when we exclude banks and insurance companies, more than 10 billion kunas, that according to certain hours of work, more than a year earlier, about 22,000 workers were working, indicating a certain growth in productivity and efficiency. A net profit of 3 and a half billion kuna has been made, which is an increase of as much as 27%, while at the same time the losses of 1.3 billion or 4% have been reduced. A better ratio of exports and imports compared to earlier years of products and services has also been achieved for the first time by a trade surplus of 8 and a half billion kuna. The company's core capital has been increased by 12 and a half billion kuna, and it is significant that it has grown the most in small businesses by as much as 7.8 billion, partly resulting from the release of profits tax for reinvested profits. Investments in long-term assets have been increased by 4.6 billion or even 14% compared to the 12th year in which a new policy plays a significant role in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which placed the most funds in relation to investments, and they are more favourable by hand because they are paid for such investments from 15 to 17 years and by a more favourable interest ranging from 3 to 5%. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is also closely monitoring exporters. In the last two years, more than 20 billion kuna has been paid out of HBOR's budget in 12 and 13 years through credit and export insurance, and it should be said that only in two years the core capital of HBOR has been paid out of the budget by a billion and 200 million kuna, equivalent to the previous six years when only 200 million kuna was paid annually. The restructuring of firms in financial problems has been attempted and is still trying to achieve pre-profit deals, and through this process to increase liquidity as well. During several cycles of tax debt reprogrammes and pre-debt settlements, accounts were unblocked and thus allowed to continue operations in a large number of companies. I will only say a few details about the pre-fashion settlements, because they are discussed mostly in the public and here in Parliament. A total of nearly 62 billion kunas have been reported. There were 54444 workers working in these companies. Already, this information speaks of major problems in which a large number of companies are in the Croatian economy. So far, about 48 billion kunas of debt have been settled, in a way that some have been accepted, and some have been rejected and these companies will go bankrupt or 88% of all cases. When looking at what results will be in the process, a restructuring plan for about 32 billion kuna commitments has been adopted and around 28,000 workers are working there, and a deal has been concluded and companies continue to work on those who had 21.4 billion kuna commitments and are working for almost 22,000 workers or have been successfully implemented in 35% of the reported commitments. The settlements provided the creditors with about 53% of the claims, which in fact means almost double the amount, and the highest debt write-offs had banks. In the structure of entrepreneurs who have concluded a pre-profit settlement, 93% are small entrepreneurs and craftsmen as well as free professions. Therefore, following such macroeconomic data, several sentences on the state budget for 2013 and its implementation. 108.8 billion revenue has been received from 62.7 billion tax revenues as the highest income in the state budget. They are smaller than in 2012 and compared to the plan. Compared to 2012 0.9%, on schedule 1.5%. The impact on tax revenues has changed in tax rates as well as the change in VAT accounting method since Croatia's entry into the EU, so in the second half of last year. Using the release of profit tax on reinvested profits, the inflow into the state budget was reduced by around a billion and 200 million kuna, but certain parafiscal charges were reduced, which were not paid throughout 2013. The expenditures were made with 125 billion kuna, they were higher than in 2012 by 4% and lower by 1.4% compared to the plan. The decreases continue to be material expenditures by 2.8% and subsidies by 3.9% and in financial expenditures recorded by nearly 10 billion the largest share has interest amounts of 9.3 billion kuna and are higher than the year before for a billion kuna. The health increase in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute items refers to the settlement of the state-owned hospitals by slightly more than 3 billion kuna, and as a new expenditure compared to previous years, the EU budget of 1.8 billion contributes. And it had a significant impact on this expenditure increase compared to last year. The consolidated state deficit is thus shown at 17.3 billion or 5.3% of which wastes 16.2 billion or 4.9% of GDP on the state budget. The deficit thus expressed actually affected that the fiscal rule was not met because expenditure in the planned GDP was reduced by 0.6 instead of 1 percentage point. On this point, the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which recommends a decisive implementation of fiscal consolidation and further structural measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy, has also provided its report to the Parliament, which will have an impact on the reduction of fiscal imbalances and the share of debt in GDP. The State Audit Office, revising the 2013 Report, gave a conditional opinion explaining this to the following reasons, that some of the previous opinions and recommendations had not been carried out for years, that there was almost no report in which the revision did not establish this, and that the prescribed accounting principles relating to the records of certain items in the main book were not consistently applied. At the same time, however, the State Office has also been shown to integrate the information systems of the district treasury with the State Treasury and to establish public sector staff registers and the central account of salaries as positive processes in budget management. Through the State budget for 2013 we estimate that the process of financial consolidation of the economy has been started because the state revenues that are budget revenues have been reduced. They, of course, had an impact, a significant impact on the revenue side of the budget, but that fiscal consolidation had begun, as it continued to reduce certain budgetary expenditures. In this regard, it was considered that certain social expenditures, pensions, do not fall but by equating conditions and at these positions there may be savings such as those. at the total cost of staff through the full introduction of the central wage account or through the networking of social pay data, so that more equal remuneration can occur for those who need such assistance. We are aware that a large number of our citizens have no income that ensures an adequate standard, that unemployment, especially young people, is large and long-term. That average pensions are low and that the largest number of pensioners receive a pension below average. We are also aware that some reforms are not fast enough, but they also depend on social consent and in many important changes that should be made in Croatia there are resistances. There are resistances in both politics and interest groups. That's what we witness every day and here today through this debate. Although citizens cannot feel the results of reforms carried out individually, i.e. they do not see it through new employment, they do not see it through higher salaries or pensions, but better economic flows recorded in 2013 and continued in 2014 can raise optimism that the exit from the crisis is realistic. The SDP Club will accept the State budget implementation report for 2013, the fiscal rule report and the State audit report on the implementation of the State budget for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82076	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honored Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82077	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Zgrebec, your exposure is on the trail of what Minister Lalovac was saying, using some less relevant figures and indicators to show that the trend is positive, that there is a sign that we are coming out of the crisis. However, all key figures deny you, from the fall of GDP, the level of unemployment remains a lack of investment. You say the direction is good, that the government is doing well and for everything that is negatively critical of either predecessors or individual stakeholders. So here, in order not to speak only to what HDZ is telling you, I'm going to appeal to neutral sources, neutral observers, and I'm going to ask you how to comment on all relevant international institutions dealing with finance and the economy, all credit agencies are negatively assessing the economic situation in Croatia and assessing the government's policy negatively? Everything culminated last week with a score of Financial Times, which says Croatia is the most dysfunctional economy in the European Union. So it's not a rating of anyone sitting here, who might be subjective, it's an evaluation of those who look at us from the outside and are really saying what they think and I believe they really appreciate what Croatian reality is today. So they call us the most dysfunctional economy in the European Union, and they very clearly locate the one responsible and say that the Government of the Left Centre lacks energy, desire and confidence to implement essential reforms such as major changes in the state sector and creating a good business climate for direct foreign investment. Privatisation programs have no direction. So that's the grade we all share.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82078	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82079	Now you have also heard the assessment of the office of review, which gave you a conditional opinion. So there's no law and all your arguments are unfortunately spent on a daily basis and I think it's really time for change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82080	To this reply, the respected vice president of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82081	You're telling your colleague that I've been providing less relevant information? Well, it might seem that way to you because you don't know what certain economic categories are. If I'm saying that it's growing, that the increased capitalisation of companies means that they're capable of investing, the ability to report for loans, that they're capable of doing positive business. That's less relevant to you? That bigger investment is 14% less relevant to you? If we had after a long time, I don't even know that we ever had a surplus trade balance, is that less important to you? It does not burden me that some agencies, as some agencies estimate Croatia, it is important for me to reach a consensus in Croatia that we should seek a way out through reforms that will increase overall social efficiency. And unfortunately for you there is no, there is neither through your debate nor through your proposals, the only thing that matters to you is power, and the only way you're discussing it is by saying, "We need to leave this power to come to us, because we know." And in eight years, you've shown how you can deal with a crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82082	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-President, in your presentation, you have devoted one part to pre-departure deals and their impact on the Croatian economy, which is then to be read on both elements and financial indicators of the state budget. If we are already talking and if the Government, and if the Minister of Finance is talking about the need to introduce order and in this context mentions both fiscalisation and the effects of fiscalisation. Then you... The public, and we also are very interested in the government showing transparency and showing the Croatian public and Croatian representatives who are companies, who are debtors in the pre-fashion settlement process, who have written off significant funds and debts to the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would be very important to look at the overall impact of the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement to see how much and who in the Republic of Croatia is forgiven for the name of unpaid taxes and other taxes according to the state budget, that is one thing. In other words, it would be good to establish that we are also informed by the Minister, whether such support within the meaning of the State Aid Act is considered unlawful aid in particular in the part in which individual debtors are written off by debt to the State budget more than it has been written off to other believers in these same pre-determination procedures. Therefore, when the Government rightly insists, it is looking for order in financial business to inform us, all of us Croatian public, Croatian representatives as well as how she herself was transparent in implementing the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement. We might also be able to read about who it is and how large debts to the state budget have been written off and what has a significant impact on this situation in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82084	Time. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The replica corresponds to the respected vice president of the home of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82085	The information I've been making about pre-fashion settlements, I've taken it from the website of FINA. FINA has all the data in consolidated and individual, so each of us can come up with that data. And what you're telling me is what the Minister or the Ministry should do, ask a representative question, and you'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82086	Third replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82087	Thank you. Dear colleagues and respected vice presidents, Mrs. Zgrebec, you mentioned in your debate, I would refer to it, or replicating it, as we need an agreement, with which we fully agree and how many resist reforms, and that is something that is actually a general place in Croatia. So everybody's talking about reforms, a little who's talking about what kind of reforms we should actually do, I'm talking about last term of last government and today. But few people talk about specific examples of what to really do. And I agree with you, without agreement on several important reforms, or several important decisions, we will not move significantly. I mean here and on the recommendations of the European Council or of the European Commission relating to and the Labour and Pension System Act which, in my opinion, is on the verge of firing because we have one who works, one who is retired and, as they say, is making it difficult for us to leave early or disabled, etc. So these are all the questions that we should discuss first and foremost in the Croatian Parliament. I, i.e. my club, along with the HDSSB club, suggested that we send a proposal to the President of the Parliament to open a debate on council recommendations right in the Croatian Parliament by the end of the summer break. So please, because I think we could go out there first of all for political cleanliness. Who, about the Labour Act, is about the pension system, about the health system, and then the government would have a stronger position in the talks further with the European Commission. I think as vice president of the Parliament, you can influence the discussion and at least make some, at least two conclusions about the fundamental issues that are bothering us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82088	The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82089	The fact is that we have not opened a wide debate within the Croatian society and then here as a policy in the Croatian Parliament. However, whatever topic you try to impose for discussion, it comes automatically, is repulsed by a wide circle of people or I have said so, to stakeholders. Look, you're going into some larger investment in energy, you have resistance. Croatia can't expect anyone else to produce energy for it to import it, but we don't even have the money to buy the expensive energy that someone else will spend. If you're going into some larger investment, then you hear voices, so someone's going to make a lot of money, and we're going to be maids or we're not gonna know who. Such discussions, which are potent and through the media in Croatia, actually only lead us to divisions, and not in what should be a common agreement on what we must do to make Croatia come out of the crisis as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82090	The last replica of the esteemed Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82091	Dear colleague Zgrebec, you're right. We are aware of the problems we face, and we are also aware of the number of unemployed, as we are aware of the work ahead. However, also, what is visible from this data, we are also aware that all those measures that the Government is taking are already giving results in the economy and that these results will be getting better and better, of course, eventually resulting in what may be most important to me and that is by reducing the number of unemployment and, of course, by increasing the employment that citizens will, and very quickly, I hope, feel and what they will be able to see from the results that this Government is taking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82092	Thank you. Before we continue the club debate, one notice. In addition to these two points that we are now discussing, today we will also discuss points 3 and 4, no matter how long it takes. In the name of the Croatian Labourist, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar will speak. Thank you. Before we continue the club debate, one notice. In addition to these two points that we are now discussing, today we will also discuss points 3 and 4, no matter how long it takes. In the name of the Croatian Labourist, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82094	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister. Discussing the report on the implementation of the budget is a debate on statistics, as what was planned was done and therefore I will start my debate with only two brief references to the implementation of the state budget and not necessarily because of criticism but rather what my colleague Jurjevic would say, warnings. The revenue from the tax on additional value in 2013 is lower than in 2012. They're smaller than planned in the state budget itself by 2.7%, that's about a billion kuna, and when a billion dollars are missing in the budget or something less, the finance minister knows that that's when the mild waste in state finances starts. The positive effects of removing the zero VAT rate that were expected were not carried out, so this did not occur. The second major item of tax revenue is special taxes and excise duties. In 2013, 11.6 billion of that title was charged, 2012. 11.2 billion. This growth of €400 million has been reported to increase the tax on energy, but not because of an increase in energy consumption but rather because of an increase in energy consumption, this would mean that the start of the economic growth of production began. The second item is the taxation of tobacco and tobacco products, which was achieved by 3.6 billion less than a year ago, which only means that more and more of those who smoked their own or are on that good track in Croatia. Of the total of 62.7 billion tax revenues, value added tax, special taxes and excise duties are 51.8 or 82.6%, and one, the second and third taxes and its return on charge are the direct consequence of the state of personal consumption, investment and social spending as a whole. And these data show that Croatia continues to suffer from personal consumption, the purchasing power of average earnings and poverty growth falls. That's what I said because it is misleading that rigorous austerity measures and pressure on personal consumption will recover the economy. And nowhere else in the EU, no one is going to slave to that model as well as I am happy that even those famous 3% of the government budget deficits have started asking and criticising not only us in the Croatian Parliament, but let's say the prime minister of the Republic of Italy Renzi who also believes that those 3% and brutal austerity measures cannot recover any member of the EU. The second paragraph, the cost-of-subsidisation position. 5.5 billion kuna last year was given for subsidies of which 1.4 billion to the public sector and 4.1 billion to the private sector. About these subsidies in the Croatian Parliament is a large number of disputes, how many they will be, which will be subsidized, how many subsidies, when there will be payment, and most often there has been opposition and the biggest dissatisfaction of different stakeholders. But what we never did, we never got, what have we never discussed is the following, what are the effects of these subsidies on the Croatian economy, agriculture and entrepreneurship? 5.5 billion kuna of public money is given 1.4 in public, 4.1 billion in the private sector, and what are the effects? The increase in production due to the impact of subsidies and the increase in production is one if not the first objective of the subsidy. Secondly, how modernized or technologically advanced production is it usually another... subsidy and third how reduced are the prices of services and products that are subsidized? This is the third objective of the subsidy. And instead of discussing and getting one analysis of the effects of positive or negative or zero effects on subsidies, every year we're going to argue whether it's enough, who's going to get everything and when it's going to be paid. I want to, and I believe the finance minister would be happy if someone turned this 5.5 billion into an analysis and said it was worth it because we have such and such effects in the economy. We are discussing not only the implementation of the budget but also the findings of the State Audit on the implementation of the budget. The state audit gave a conditional opinion, which is a passing assessment, but with a warning, a chart. What are the reasons for the conditional opinion or for the State's review of grudges? Much of the recommendations and orders given in 2012 were not carried out. Furthermore, the data in the main book of the state budget on the basis of which the prescribed financial statements are drawn up, and reports on the implementation of the state budget are not complete because no data on claims for valuable revenues of the state budget, taxes, contributions, specific taxes and data on the value of State property have been provided. In addition, certain claims for taxes and other public charges by applying the provisions of certain laws and regulations have been written down, reprogrammed, charged in real estate, shares, shares or repurchase of mutual claims, which are also not recorded in the accounts and financial reports, and have had an impact on revenues and expenditures and the property of the state budget. That's not all. In the Annual Report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, the general government income mannajak has not been accurately shown because budgetary and extra-financial users apply different accounting principles in recognition of income and expenditure. When will these reasons be removed that all users and extra-account users use different principles? Furthermore, certain areas are not sufficiently clear or insufficiently regulated. There is more, the value of new financial guarantees is higher than the amount prescribed in Article 31. Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. Finally, other than for purposes prescribed by the laws, the appropriations financed were expenditures which could be foreseen or implemented on a continuous basis, so they could also be planned. That's what the State Audit Office found. Okay, it happened. In addition to the fact that the Ministry of Finance finds certain points of view the Government’s State Audit on this document, it did not give its opinion. And if we are now looking at these objections only in the context of jurisdiction, the powers of the Ministry of Finance and I would really like to know and hear the opinion of the Government when, by what measures and ways, the reasons that led to these national audit objections will be eliminated. Or by accepting this document, the State Audit report will conclude that the government in general did not respect not only the state budget but also the accompanying laws. Because when the Parliament adopts the report, it also sets out these as well as the tasks and recommendations that the state audit has made for 2013. We also did this for 2012 the state audit found that the most important tasks had not been carried out. The government doesn't show up, there's no obvious, there's no government opinion. Because that means the government ignores the state audits report? Does this mean that by adopting this finding, we are actually adopting the assessment that the government was not doing well in the execution? But this is far more important to me when and how the shortcomings that the state review warns of will be addressed. And no one has to be punished if it's such a political decision. But it really is important for the Parliament to get an answer to these six observations, findings, serious warnings of state review, we started to prepare, we work, we're going to get on the agenda, we're going to get rid of, we're going to solve, that's the essence of what I expected. However, in addition to the budget itself in its report, the state audit has dealt with both the chapter or the area of state property and that is good and I thank her for that. And I just remind myself that the value that we discussed when we discussed the state property management strategy was estimated or it was said to be worth more than 30 billion euros. So in a valuable sense, it's a lot more than one annual budget. The parliament also adopted the State Property and Law Management Strategy after prolonged labor. And one of the important things in those two documents is the Register of State Property. He appeared, he published, though, that document, that is, the registry was late compared to the prescribed deadlines. It was interesting to see when, on the day of the publication of that register, the resolute minister boasted that it had finally been done but did not apologize for being late and politely apologized when someone did not do something within the time limit. What does the state audit say about the Register of State Assets? According to the registration data, in March 2014, the number of units registered for real estate is 384 thousand, the number of companies held by the State holding shares of 460 and the number of listed companies in which the State shares 240. The register found that the data were incomplete, especially those relating to real estate. In some cases, data on the name of the real estate and surface users are missing and the real estate value data are mostly not listed. The data was not updated because certain bonds provided data with a state in 2012. Significant money was spent at the establishment of the National Property Register and is also looking for significant human resources. And if even after a year we are unable to answer the content prescribed in the law and no one is asking anyone why it is not good. There's more. In certain cases, the Agreements on the sharing of assets between budgetary users shall not be concluded in a timely manner or shall not be applied consistently in the section relating to the recording in the accounts. It is therefore the users of state property in state authorities. In certain cases, the assets shall be recorded with one budgetary user and used by another budgetary user. And I'll finish the next one. The Register of State Assets as a project whose establishment, among other things, was to offer a solution related to the recording of state assets in the main book and the financial reports of the state budget, is not being implemented in a satisfactory manner. Liabilities supplying data in the register are not informed of the obligation to supply all the necessary information on the state property they use and which are necessary for the entry into the report, the State budget system. Therefore, they were not informed of all the data to be supplied and to be entered in the Register of State Assets. And nobody, nobody's to blame. Will that be removed and when? Such answers enable what is called an agreement. And I beg the rulingly that this debate of mine is not perceived as a criticism but a warning. And it's good that we passed the Law on State Property Management and Strategy and the Register of State Property, but it's not good for a part of the State Service to treat it sloppyly. And I am finishing my debate, in the Register of State Property there are real estates, shares and shares of the state in companies, and the strategy and the law predicted that there were exactly 35 forms of state property in the Register of State Property. We only have three. You won't be able to remember me reading them all, but, for example, in the Register of State Assets, we still don't have property seized, illegally acquired by criminal acts. We still don't have it and we still don't have the value and list of electronic communications infrastructures and other related equipment with it, and a very important fact about the possibility of putting... into operation. We don't even have patents granted to the Republic of Croatia, we don't have property and concessions from the former state, especially abroad. And now the listing would be pointless, I singled out the ones I know there are data, and they didn't enter because someone didn't deliver it to someone. And for this reason, I regret that the Government has not given its opinion on this State Audit report, not to spill ash and admit guilt, but to say, to respond to the dilemmas when, who, in which deadlines and how will remove the reasons why the State Audit warns that the issue of state property management cannot be seen separately from the state budget because it is also being shown. I believe that part of the answer will be given by the finance minister, I would like it if possible. If not, sooner or later someone may still be able to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82095	Thank you. We have two replicas. First honorary colleague Marijan Skuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your debate you have really raised a few questions that I would still like to discuss. First of all, you are really right to ask the question of subsidies worth 5.5 million kuna that have given effect to our country, our economy. And the question is, in itself, imposed, if there are no indicators, then we can say that these funds and these subsidies have simply disappeared, whether they were stolen or unfortunately not used well. But if we look at some of the indicators that have been defined through investment by the Ministry of Economy, above all, that industrial production has increased in the first four months compared to last year. So in the first month, it was up 3.2%, 2 months by 2.8%, 3 and 4 months was 0.7-0.6%. When we compare neighborhoods between the first quarter of 2014 and '13. Our export year is 8.5% higher. This is, however, saying that our entrepreneurs, our economies and the subsidies that were given were very much used, especially when we are talking about exports and exports to markets within the European Union that are extremely demanding, that these funds have been invested primarily for new knowledge, for new products, I am also sure about new machinery. And that's what we're saying about the operational support programme that they've given, the amount of 120 million kuna and 110 companies have also benefited from an operational programme of support to the processing industry that used about 120 to 130 support and the amount of 132 million kuna. So there's still an indication that these support is hardly social character as we said today at the beginning... about agriculture, but about those of reasonable character. And I agree that the budget stock is still at this point that you said much more qualitatively than before, just watch 2011 what the budget stock was like in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82097	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82098	Very short. 5.5 billion, not 5.5 million kunas, were subsidies, not support. The growth of industrial production or indicators of growth in industrial production and exports may but have nothing to do with these subsidies until data processing is made up to users. How many of those who received state subsidies ended up in a pre-demand settlement or in bankruptcy or went bankrupt, for example? Do you have that information? I don't. You see, when we have them, then we'll see if those effects... How much is the growth of industrial production in the part of the industry that does not have the right to subsidies? And what if there is the greatest increase in exports in those who are not users of subsidies? So to the general statistical macroeconomic indicators to prove the eligibility of subsidies in my opinion is this much of a method that is usually called occal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82099	Another replica and respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you spoke of, among others, austerity measures and brutal austerity measures. You mentioned Italian Prime Minister Renzi and the brutal austerity measures and in that I agree with you, not brutal but austerity measures. Because we have to reduce the deficit, it is a fact, not because of the European Commission, because of the European Union, because of someone who is our tutor again, but because of ourselves, because we cannot spend more than we earn. It's an account of every housekeeper and every household, so then there's got to be states. And to achieve this here when you read and recommendations from the Council for the Republic of Croatia, means deficit below 3% in 2016. First of all, for the government, each government and this government means something more realistic and consistent to plan. When you look at this report on the implementation of last year's budget, the deficit was planned from 10 billion at the beginning, but we got to what, 16 and a half, 17, 18. So today we're talking about different amounts here. Certainly almost double what was planned. And this is one of the questions that we also have to resolve in the Croatian Parliament how to get to the point of saving realistically, and that the state works and that all those who have to be protected are protected and that we support the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82101	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82102	Comrade Kosor, I agree with you only we will always remain in doubt three percent of the deficit has become a golden calf that no one dares to discuss anymore. Why exactly three? And where it's proven that 3% of the deficit is very healthy for the economy, but let's let it go now. In my debate, I put an emphasis on the decline of personal consumption. One way to reduce deficits is that there is no new borrowing, only to pay off old debts. That's one way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82103	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Grubisic and Cain will speak. First, my colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82104	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers and assistants, colleagues and colleagues. This is the second and a half years to participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament, which is an honor to me, but I must say that I am not personally satisfied with the work of the Parliament and those opinions with which I came to the Parliament two and a half years ago have remained present until today. The parliament is divided into a party in power or coalition in power and opposition, and the debates are mainly on the link whether the party in power supports regardless of the responsibility, accuracy, accuracy of the report that the opposition mainly honors the exceptions to any solution given by the party in power. We could mention that old saying that little ducks went to school from Wednesday to Friday, but they didn't move away from the beginning. I also think that we have not moved away from the beginning, because we are bypassing important problems that are present in Croatian society, and we pretend that we do not see or really see these problems. I personally am not committed to the left or right option in thinking, but I am placed at the centre of interest by a man above all, and we as representatives of the Croatian Parliament must fight for a specific citizen, a man, to make his life better in these places, more successful, to be more satisfied. It doesn't happen with all let's say good efforts and we are at a certain beginning. If we should establish and implement some reforms, then I think we should start from the very beginning of the electoral process, which is directly resisting parliamentary MPs, not party lists, and that those who really choose people by name and last name really represent that people. If we choose again by Yeah, we have a specific subject, but these are the problems. [[Stazić: My colleague Grubisic, so I have no intention of narrowing this debate but we have a very clear and concrete topic that is the implementation of the budget.]] These are the problems and I'm gonna end up quick, but I think the problems should be talked about so I can get rid of them. [[Intruder Stazic: I would kindly ask you to approach the topic.]] If we don't talk about problems, we'll stay in the same position we're in right now. So, I think that we should have a direct election of parliamentary representatives, that they are responsible for their election unit for their work and that they can call off unless those promises they made in the election race are fulfilled. Many of us have programmes for elections, but we have no problems getting Croatia out of the crisis. I try and want to co-operate on the programs to get out of the crisis whether they come from the right or from the left, if they lead Croatia towards a better tomorrow. And further exposure will be done by Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82105	Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82106	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, Chief State Auditor. When it comes to the implementation of the national budget for 2013 these macroeconomic indicators are clearly important. But on this occasion, I'm going to make a comparison with those in 2008. So in 2008, all the companies in Croatia achieved 709.8 billion kuna and 2013. 612.4 billion kuna. That means 97.3 billion kuna less. In 2007, in 2008, we had a profit of $17.2 billion, I'm talking about the pre-crisis year, and 2013. 3.15 billion kuna. So that's minus 14 billion kuna. In 2013, 101 thousand companies in Croatia employ 830 thousand 328 workers, and 2008. 933 thousand 628 or 103 thousand 300 workers were less employed in 2013 compared to 2008. Obligations of the economy, interest, etc. From 58.1 billion, they grew to $69 billion. Investments are down by 52 billion kuna. In 2008, we had 89.6 billion kuna investments, 2013. $37.4 billion. And what the finance minister himself recently said was that the recession has denied in these five years the annual budget revenue of cca 100 billion kuna. So, the trends in 2013 were not good and now the question is whether 2014 will change? It's too soon to say that. Personally, I want to believe that it's simply possible. What I would like to insist on, I also heard from the minister in the morning, first of all, is one legal guarantee of 123m euros for the contracted Uljanika jarar with Dutch companies totalling 173m euros. It's like in that one ship they've contained 4, 5 tankers or I don't know how many ferrys, 10 ferrys. So, if that happens, the entire South of Istria will be launched, May 3rd, Oil. I am convinced that the TeSU issue of the ship's engine factory in Rijeka will be resolved. Otherwise, I don't know what might happen, but I hear that guarantee will be in the government tomorrow. Someone will also say that the biggest handicap of this government is that it will have five electoral cycles in its term of office. Twice European elections, once local, once parliamentary, one presidential, a whole series of mini local elections, at least three, maybe four, five referendums etc. So a referendum day should be set to begin. Because every week this referendum just doesn't make sense. However, no matter what the occasion, they are clearly worrying. Croatia has been in the excessive deficit procedure since January 2014. We are also in the process of macroeconomic imbalance, but the European Commission has to admit that it has given one strong, strong, strong support to the government and now whatever someone thinks Croatia, should and should admit, it has cut expenditures but how? So it doesn't hurt. So someone's gonna say it might hurt something, but we have to admit it. It is certain that fiscal consolidation cannot be implemented without the most unpopular measures. Whether without the tax press, whether through the cutting of salaries, socials, subsidies, God forbid you touch the pensions. The fact is also that budget expenditures can't be cut abruptly, but what have we been doing? We've been saving on investments. There's really nothing to be saved anywhere else. In one word, fiscal consolidation is not possible in a short time. What's the biggest problem? The biggest problem is public debt. I said earlier that we were saving about 50 billion kuna in investment at an annual level or that for so many investments less than in 2008 when they amounted to 89.6 billion kuna and last year 37.4 billion kuna. That's minus 52.2 billion kuna. What's the biggest problem? Public debt. The general government's debt at the end of 2013 amounted to more than 220 billion kuna or 67.1% of GDP. If we add 53.7 billion kuna to the central government's guarantees, the potential public debt is 83.4% of GDP. We don't have guarantees from units of local self-government, but the fact that this budget is worth 125 billion kuna and that the revenues of local self-government last year were 21.9 billion kuna, means every 6 or every 4 kuna with each 4 or every 6 as we look at local self-government, we can talk about at least 95% of GDP. And that's where we come to be. The original incomes of € 108.5 billion, expenditures € 125 billion. And what does the State Audit find? What we all know very well. Receipts, I quote, of the 42.5 billion kuna borrowings relate to receipts from the issued securities amounting to 30 billion kuna and receipts from loans of $12.4 billion. The most significant receipts from the issued securities amounting to €30.1 billion and the bonds amounting to €27.1 billion and net receipts from the vaults amounting to €3 billion. And now what do we do? Either we go to structural reform today, or a lot of things will be transferred tomorrow to an existing or future government. The biggest problem of the country is that in 2014 we have 70 to 80 thousand more people than 1990. It costs us 10 billion kuna a year with material costs. The Groh of these people is clearly employed in the best forms of nepotism, it doesn't matter if it's Slavonia, or Istria where even moms are hired if their sons are the leaders, by the logic that they need to be clearly cared for by their loved ones. But budget expenditure for salaries and pensions since 2004 has been growing around 5 percentage points annually, while capital expenditures that ensure development from 11% in 2014 fall to 3.8% in 2012, and 2013 and below that percentage. And that's why there's no significant growth, while the expenditure on interest from 4 billion in 2004 is growing to 11.1 billion this year, and the next is even 12 billion kuna. And what you can see is that every government burden of crisis is trying, it's my impression, to transfer to that future one or that former government leaves such a burden to that future one. I think this is where this government tried to change direction, but this time it's what it's doing? The greatest burden is shifted to those who are weakest, those are small economic operators, and that's where we come into these pre-fashion deals. The big ones are forgiven, the ones who brought the companies into trouble continue to lead them, and on the other hand, the small ones are literally harassed. When someone in the West goes bankrupt or loses their own company, when they lose him or lose everything, or goes to jail, or takes his own life, and in Croatia, even richer, with even more real estate, and even more pictures, with all the forgiven obligations. And imagine in 98% of the cases those who have ruined companies continue to lead them. And there is no difference whether it is Istria, Slavonia, Dalmatia or what I know about Zagreb. Most importantly, I'm going to say at this point clearly to secure tomorrow at the government that warranty for the Oilman. We have to or we will have to implement structural reforms, we will have to start clearly from the judiciary that does what they do, their range is Sanader now Merzel, and a barrel of 2 or 3,000 euros, and everything between that is probably being let do what it does. The reform of the institution is clearly contitio sine qua non, I would say these states from state authorities to units of local self-government. There is no Professor Kregar here, he once said that at the beginning of the term of office he thought that one who would abolish part of the unit of local self-government would surely lose the election, but says today after 3.4 years here in Parliament I realize that the one who would do so would win the election. Sixty thousand people work in local self-government, 75 thousand in Croatian health care. Health costs us 22 billion, local self-government 22 billion, the state budget of that 125 billion kuna. I'm saying that among other things, and I'm talking about Istria. I mentioned investments, 50, so many billion kunas last year compared to 2008. Thank God the state investments haven't gone beyond Istria in the past three years. Whether it's Croatian roads, Croatian waters. After 200 million kunas are provided for ipillon and that the general hospital is etc. Never greater national investment, but they're not development, I'm sorry, they're not a guarantee of progress. In this local self-government does not participate with any kuna, but it is now less important. It is clear that I stand for one maximum decentralisation preferably, by the example of one who knew the 74th Constitution. Why? Because then Croatia's Istria, my Buzet, is free to say the fastest development. In the 1980s, the processing industry had 700 thousand employees in Croatia and a 30% share in gross social product, and in 2010 there are 219 900 people in the Croatian industry, and in the gross social product it participates with 13.6%, today we are below 200 thousand employees and the share of the processing industry in GDP is about 10%. There is no country that is more strongly deindustrated than Croatia. And why am I saying that? Let's let the conversion go, let's let the privatisation know that, I will now mention the European Union. In 2013, we paid Brussels 1,805 135 213 kuna, so many circuses we withdrew, but our priorities were determined or set priorities. Did one kuna, for example, come from that money to resuscitate the Croatian industry? It's not. Or for something we're 100% producing and exporting our way west, no. In 2013, 2014, we will pay the circus 4 billion kuna, scattered, but almost dare say no to nonsense, not to what we don't need, but to what is not our priority right now. I'm not saying that roads aren't important, that water lines aren't important, but keeping production jobs is certainly a question of the survival of the country as such. This is where we clearly come to corruption, at national level it's somewhat halted, at a local extra, I'd say, waved, we're not going to have a positive GDP growth in 2014, we've seen what the tourist data is, I think it's going to change seven, eight months, but I want to believe that this year will still be the last year of negative trends. So, what do you expect? Our highways are in trouble, our shipbuilding is in trouble, for the third time I mention it on purpose, although I know it will be in government tomorrow..., it is... the synchronised survival of Croatian shipbuilding, the industry has problems, health care is mildly rehabilitated, thank God, the state enters the construction of a general hospital in Pula. State revenues in the first four months are 500 million kuna higher than in 2013, but VAT revenue now being calculated differently, so imports are lower. We're losing CEFTA, go Mr. Minister with this food interface. We see that the Deputy Prime Minister thinks differently. We'll probably have to rebalance already in September, probably because of these floods, but it's important to let people work and have. I repeat, at this point, the ones that are the weakest, which are the little people, the small firms, and the big ones, they sort of tend to be. However, no matter what, we used to listen to a whole series of data, there's a sign that things are moving better and I want to believe that this is the last crisis recession year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82107	Thank you. Two replicas. First esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82108	Well, colleague Cain, when you compared so nicely in 2008 and 2013, then you forgot to compare the key thing, which is what the deficit was in 2008, which is what it is today. So the 2008 deficit was 0.8% or 2.8 billion kuna. It was a year before the crisis and then exploded as it exploded in 2009, but that deficit to 0.8 came from 6.3% in 2003. So, if some reforms were carried out, there was also order in the country, otherwise they would not have been the results as they are. However, I find yours very interesting, now don't get me wrong that I am against the Uljanika guarantee, but how can a guarantee be given to a restructured shipbuilding? Will that allow Brussels? Or that guarantee will again be some kind of skeleton as it is said that 10 billion skeletons came in 2011, these are all the guarantees that were given to shipbuilding. To be clear, in all the reports on the implementation of the state budget, these guarantees were nicely taxed, listed inside. Well, she didn't fall out of the air that no one knew anything about them. So let's not, then, because of that when we like to treat things one way, and when we don't, treat them another way because if we say we're done all the time and the government boasts about it, with the restructuring of shipbuilding, then we're interested tomorrow on what basis they're going to give that guarantee. That reminds me of when we were out there in 2009, in 2010, we couldn't guarantee it with the word word 3. May and then a major political decision by the city council of Rijeka, they will give a guarantee if they do not give the state. My colleague Cain, it can't go that far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82109	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82110	Well, it can, Mr. Schucker, and it has to do that because in this particular case, it's not about the financial guarantee, it's about the censure. It's a legal guarantee. It is not the same, legal guarantees as such guarantees to help industry know the EU and it needs to be ensured. We are talking about a 173m-euro yard here, which is the most valuable ship that has been built since the beginning, I suppose, in one Uljanika, perhaps in Croatia shipbuilding. It's about the equivalent of 4 or 5 ferrys. So it is necessary to provide a guarantee of 123m euros plus interest plus the cost of the loan, but without it everything comes into question. And the Oilman and the 3rd. May, and with that problem, I am deeply convinced that we are also solving the TSU problem in Pula and the Motor problem in Rijeka. The very fact that Croatia's shipbuilding can contract a boat equivalent to 173m euros says something is moving. Without it, the South of Istria would not be as industrially recognizable as much of the Republic of Croatia has been deindustrated, and I mean Istria. I mentioned earlier that in the 1980s we had 700 thousand employees in the processing industry, that the processing industry participated with 30% of GDP, and today the processing industry participates in GDP with 10% and is employed somewhere by no more than 200 thousand people. Therefore, I purposely mention this case, I want to believe that the government will stand behind it and that HABOR and other business banks will clearly, unequivocally send a message to the entire Croatian public that something is being paid and done in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82111	Second replica, Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, actually the same comment. It is completely unclear how it is possible for a private company to approve a 126m-euro state guarantee whatever it is doing. The more this government boasts that it has solved the problem of shipbuilding, and you now claim, you who support this government, that without this guarantee Croatia's shipbuilding will fail. Then what's changed in the first place? Which changed, therefore, after the fact that in 2011, more Uljanik came out of the difficulty society process because a billion kunas entered their guarantees into public debt, after which the company was privatised. If you say it can, then from this place we invite all Croatian companies that produce and export anything, and export a lot more than 120m euros, to ask the Croatian Government for censures that have never been in difficulty, except now what this government has forced them to do, and which are extremely difficult to come to export jobs because they can't get any legal guarantees. So if this government boasts that it's solved the shipbuilding problem, how do you say it's in trouble now? Secondly, how is it possible to give the private company 128 million or... euros in censure by the state? And based on the waiting and what competition mechanisms do you intend to explain in the European Commission tomorrow? So why did we do the restructuring program, why did Uljanik leave the company with difficulties, why is he privatized if you're now saying he's in trouble again? And the Oilman's worked so far seems to me 3 or 4 of those ships, before, so this isn't the first one to be contracted. I'm glad he still has a job, I'm glad he's still working on the market, but the guarantee thing seems to me to be one big questionnaire and it'll probably explain the minister himself better how it's possible today. If then we invite her all to do it... This is the type of guarantee. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82113	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82114	I repeat here once again that there is no questionnaire here. It's not a financial guarantee. It's a censure. And what changed? Yes, the oil company today is a private company when we simply forced the workers, management to simply privatize that company. It could have been state-owned but simply so that we could start or that we could end all these negotiations with the EU should have taken over. Well, I guess we don't want to run out of Croatian shipbuilding here. Without the oil there is no Croatian shipbuilding, without the oil there is no 10% of Croatian exports so to say, well not 10 slightly less. But in some years, Ulnik himself was equal to 10% of Croatian exports. And finally, Mr. Ex-Secretary, Mr. Representative, that money isn't free money, that money will get the company back to June. Funding is as neat as it was negotiated, so the state and the business banks will not have any harm, however, only benefit from one such arrangement. And what's important is that it's a censure, not a financial guarantee. It is not the same thing and the EU recognises this possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82115	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club will be spoken by distinguished counterpart Marijan Skuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82116	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As the basic financial document showing all planned annual incomes and receipts has been examined, expenditures and expenditures are primarily a means of achieving the needs and will of citizens, with all the means and means of proving fiscal responsibility, as well as a statement and political objectives of each government. Therefore, the annual report on the implementation of the state budget must give us many answers, first and foremost, which are guidelines for our future work, which are our real goals, and all with the ultimate goal of developing our country. When we talk about the report on our state budget we can find that the operating expenses are of the plan... 110.2 billion, carrying out 10.5 billion kuna. The expenditures planned for €125 billion made with €123 billion and the difference is €16 billion. In our report as a HNS club, we will stick to the income side more because, as well as the mayor, we know that when the budgets are made, everyone is more concerned with the cost-side analysis because, of course, everyone in the distribution would share something, and rarely who would accept the part as well as get something, how to do something. So in particular, several types of revenue would be highlighted in that analysis. First of all, they'd analyze loans and loans. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The budget law is implemented for the purpose of financing deficits of the state budget, financing investment projects and specific programmes according to the approval of the Croatian Parliament, and also the basis of current payments of government debt, the settlement of the payments made related to state guarantees and the management of liquidity of the state budget and also other revenues. So, based on both audits and reports, loans and loans received amounted to €12.4 billion. of which we used long-term loans and loans of 10 billion kuna and short-term loans of 1.5 billion kuna. Long-term loans and loans were received from credit institutions, both from the country and abroad of 10 billion kuna and from international financial institutions worth 827 million kuna. Receipts from credits from the country and abroad were made on the basis of a new borrowing contract of €5.5 billion and contracts and additions to contracts for the replacement of old loans to new ones and the extension of repayment deadlines for loans contracted earlier years amounting to € 4.4 billion. In 2014, 6 new long-term borrowing contracts were concluded, 5 of which with country credit institutions and 1 with a credit institution abroad. Loan repayment deadlines shall be agreed in meals or one-time periods between 3 and 5 years. Of those loans, 3 loans totalling 3.3 billion kuna were used to resuscitate health institutions. Receipts made on the basis of contracts and additions to contracts for the replacement of old loans to new ones and the extension of repayment deadlines for previously agreed loans relate to previously taken credits and those loans for shipyards amounting to HRK 4.4 billion and other loans amounting to HRK 75 million. Receipts from debt to international financial institutions amounting to €627 million relate to borrowing from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank. These receipts were made through the withdrawal of loans on the basis of several contracts from earlier years, and one contract concluded in 2013 which is for the financing of another technological development project. Receipts from short-term loans were shown on a net basis of a billion and 536 million kuna. Total short-term credit receipts are in the amount of 14 billion kuna and loans are mainly agreed with banks and other institutions from the country of 13 billion and with banks abroad of a billion and a half kuna. Short-term borrowing in foreign banks was made according to money market offers mainly due to timely pension payments. The interest rate with the charged fee was 0.4% to 1.45% year-on-year. The short-term borrowing of banks from abroad was agreed in December 2014 at an amount of 200m euros, i.e. 1.5 billion kuna equivalent. The loan was agreed without a withdrawal fee at an interest rate of 2.5% and the repayment deadline was 31st March 2014. The second part of the receipts I would like to highlight and highlight, which are the receipts from the sale of shares and shares in the principal. The receipts from the sale of shares and shares in the capital are planned in the amount of 3 billion kuna and... are worth 45.6 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The planned receipts from the sale of shares and shares in the main credit and other financial institutions in the public sector are planned. This was originally planned to sell shares of the Croatian Post Bank and Croatia's insurance which were ultimately not achieved. And there has been some receipts from the sale of shares and shares in the main company in the public sector, and those that were not planned. The most significant receipts from the sale of shares and shares in the principal amounting to 45 million kuna were realised by the Croatian Pension Insurance Society. And these funds have been paid into account from the state budget according to the order of the HZMO and have been achieved since the cancellation of the reservation for court disputes. And this is based on the report on the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Society for the period January/September 2013. In particular, we wanted to point out these two things about receipts and this to receive borrowings and receipts from the sale of shares because, in the finding of the state audit, one thing is particularly highlighted and it is related to the financing of projects by loans to international financial institutions. In its report, the State Audit Office proposed that a very good analysis of the eligibility of project financing and potential users of loans should be made before taking a decision on the financing of the projects referred to in those loans and the time limits for the implementation of the projects. E Due to the irregular withdrawal of funds and the extension of the time limits for the use of loans, additional costs for the state budget arise. And indeed that thinking which is that the State Office has expressed its opinion that before the loan agreement is concluded, the possibility of funding projects from the funds should be considered... the funds of the European Union funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, loan users have also appointed authorities to monitor the implementation of projects whose work also includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance with a view to encouraging the current planning and withdrawal of the resources of the state budget and loans. Of course, on the basis of the Government's conclusion on the measures to reduce the deficits of December 2013, loans are intended to be negotiated in the future as a substitute for the national component of the financial structure for co-financing of projects from the European Union Fund. And concrete results have already been cancelled in 2013 and early 2014, around 85m euros in loans to finance projects, as they are planned to be financed using the European Union funds. And there, in particular, we would like to analyse the revenues from foreign aid and from entities within the general budget where the large majority of the funds are defined from the assistance of the European Union funds to see what our potentials are and what benefit we have benefited from. First of all, revenues from aid from abroad and from entities within the general budget have been achieved in the amount of billions and 826 million kuna. And the most significant value refers to aid from international organisations and foreign governments worth billions and 736 million kunas. New sources of revenue have been achieved in 2014 and these are from the moment Croatia enters the European Union, these are the European Union funds and other European Union programmes, which relate to assistance from funds that have become available to the Republic of Croatia since the accession of the European Union. What are these sources of resources? They are listed above as the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Regional Development Fund. For those three funds, we got aid of 358 million. It is also the Fishing Fund where we have obtained assistance in the amount of... millions of kuna and these are the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As part of the revenue from international organisations of foreign governments of €1 billion and €736 million, revenue from EU assistance to boost cash flow of €585 million and aid for liquidity received by members in the first year and from pre-accession funds, gifts and other assistance in the amount of... A million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other revenues that have been achieved are the Schengen Programme, they have been achieved in the amount of 300 million kuna and funds for refugees and return and instruments of the European Economic Area. All revenues in the light of the written recording method are not shown as income but as an obligation for advances. By joining the European Union in July 2013, the Republic of Croatia has the right to use funds, help from new sources of revenue, as we have said funds and other programmes. Special foreign exchange accounts have been opened for the inflow of funds from those funds and the monitoring of the inflows and outflows of funds in those accounts and the management of the allocations shall be carried out within the framework of the National Fund, which is the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance. We also have agreed projects which were still in the period from 2007 to the end of 2014 under the IPA Programme and this Programme measures 3 and 4 where we have spent 145 and 35% of the funds available to us in 2014 and 2013. We would mention that, given that by the end of... the financing of projects under operational environmental protection programmes, development programmes, there are another 664m euros left in relation to what we should have received and what we used. And then there is our chance, and our opportunity, given that the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union involves significant allocations of budgets based on contributions to the budget of the European Union. It is important to make every effort to make use of the European Union funds and other European Union programmes to the greatest extent possible and to take urgent steps to negotiate and implement projects under the operational programmes. And for the period 2014... the Republic of Croatia can abolish the use of 13.7 billion euros. But that is what we should draw conclusions from this report, but let's not let the European Union funds be our alibi for the senseless and incompetent. The use of funds is the best form of decentralisation, at local and regional level is the greatest and responsibility. We need to have an idea, speak as mayor, have project documentation, professional teams, meet many criteria, we need to keep learning and that we need to help each other. We need to provide good logistics to all citizens, companies and all others who want to apply to these programs. There is no competition with operational means because it is important to know that no new member has ever succeeded in withdrawing all the funds available and thus we will continue to launch the entire Croatian economy... and reduce the deficit which is really our ultimate goal. And with that message, the desire to use this report really to use this revenue side... The European Union, these are not the means to be offered, but they do not open themselves to us, it is up to us, and the HNS club Liberal Democrats will support the draft annual report on the implementation of the state budget, the proposal for an annual report on the revision of the fiscal rules and the State Audit Office's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82117	Thank you. A respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić has signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Skvarić, in your discussion, you said, and I agree with you that this implementation of the budget is, in fact, a statement of political goals, or any government, that is, to see whether that authority is on the right track. Here we can conclude all together that surely the Government did not close its eyes and not run away from solving the problem but is introduced of course order in all segments. Well, I'll say, actually, when the data is a couple of things that aren't off-limits because today we heard about the self-satisfaction of the minister and then the obstetrics and then the fiscalization, etc., so it's very important to give as much data as possible. So here's when the SDP took over the last month of HDZ's reign, there were 315 000 unemployed. In the first month after that, there were already 340,000, but both of these numbers are less than the current number of unemployed, which means 305,000 unemployed of our fellow citizens. I also have to stress here that when we talk about deficits, and today there have been a lot of words, most of the deficits are essentially interest on previous duties. That's about 60%, amounting to 9.8 billion kuna. Therefore, the rehabilitation of health 3 billion kuna, membership for the European Union 1.8 billion kuna. The deficit could have been zero if, of course, the money had not been left to the economy through untaxed reinvestments, etc., to get through HBOR. Not to mention now the pensions that have remained, which have not actually been reduced or reduced, that we are not talking about social benefits that have not been reduced but, of course, introduce order into the whole system, and when you look at what has been introduced into the social system, from informing to the fact that all 118 social care centres have been networked...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82119	Thank you very much. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82120	Wait a minute. So it is clear that we are on the right track as far as this government is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82121	The replica corresponds to the respected Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, we can really agree here that order must be introduced in all segments, above all, the implementation of the budget and according to the State Audit, it is also seen by the Government that this order is very much wanted and achieved, and what it is also on because we have talked many times about the amounts of the funds themselves. Something I said only the expenditure part of the state budget is almost... and already pre-programmed. Very little remains for that part in some way of developmental component. And be careful, that part that is small but it depends even on the amount of funds from my experience everything than the funds that are necessary must be optimally exploited and it must be controlled and that this order according to this section as indicated here... the implementation of this budget, just... how the budgets were 3.4.5 years ago we can... satisfaction, and these indicators that you have cited are indeed a reduction of unemployment, an increase in exports, an increase in economic growth and in many things gives us... optimism that this government is doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82123	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the state's chief auditor with his associates. Someone here today told us colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament that the man is at the centre of attention and should be at the centre of attention if he is not already, so there has been a dispute whether this is about today's topic or not in connection with today's topic. But I will try to prove that this saying is related to today's topic, which is the state budget for 2013 and its breakdown, its analysis and how money flows were happening and so what was happening in the country in 2013. And what happened here is heard today or yesterday that Croatia in 2013, and when we talk about people, it's lost, it's smaller by the number of inhabitants by 10500. Next, it's said it can't cut without hurting. Well, we as surgeons, or I as a surgeon, well know what that means, but there are certain measures like anesthesia. So what measures would that be? I'll say it later in my speech. Which is what actually causes the disproportionateness between expenditure and the revenues of the state budget, which actually causes all the consequences of not saying pain not only for the perception of poverty but for the real poverty of the Croatian man. Not perception. By the perception of poverty, over 70% of Croatian citizens say they feel poor, but we have more than a third of citizens who are really poor and who feel very well about the debt of slavery in which we have burned both citizens and states. The Minister also spoke publicly 20 days ago in this same place, clearly and loudly, that it was a debt slavery in which the state planned a 2013 budget of, therefore, an amount of 110 and a half billion kuna and a expenditure of 126 billion kuna. What household in Croatia plans immediately at the beginning of the year or before for next year's deficit, the deficit? Are we in our ordinary household where we have a husband, wife, children, etc. We plan to stay short from the beginning of the year for approximately 10. 15% compared to the receipts. That's how it's done in our country. So we immediately planned 16 billion budget shortages. And for all of that, we didn't even make it on the income side of that 110 and a half billion, but let's go to 109 billion. A billion and a half less than planned, despite VAT being increased from 23% to 25%, despite the fact that the tax on tourism activity has increased from 13% to 15%, despite the fact that here we have it and, the health rate has been returned, a contribution to health from 13% to 15%. GDP has been falling for the third, fourth, fifth year. Croatia's foreign debt is growing. This is also contributed by this year's pardon last year, the 3.3 billion-euro debt this government owed to the Republic of Croatia, each of its inhabitants and every child in this country that was born last year, almost at least so far since it has been a free and independent Croatian state. In each child's future, therefore, there will be a problem with the repayment of the debt totaling around 45.6 billion euros. Share it with 4 million and 200, 300 thousand inhabitants, and you will get the information that every resident and child owes 10,000 euros. And the one that's born right away. So GDP falls, gross social product. The decline and investment is evident year after year. The relationship between employees and pensioners is almost equal, employees and pensioners. He's 1, 1, 1, 15 to 1, but he tends to convert. So, the tendency of equating the number of employees with the number of pensioners. Unemployment is catastrophic. We can also talk about Cyprus and Spain, Greece, but I would say that when we already have the world championship champions in the unemployment rate of mostly young people who were evicted from Croatia last year by more than 20,000 young, educated people of a fertilised age. When I say at a fertilized age, then it refers to a demographic disaster that is under way, and it will also be, there will be even worse and more devastating results when we see how many young people have moved from Croatia. What do people, ordinary citizens, do when they get into this kind of trouble? They're in debt, they're in debt that they can't fix or sell out their assets as well as our country. So Croatia's insurance is sold, Croatia's postal bank is sold, Croatian highways are monetized. It was a plan, I don't know how far it got, etc. In Croatia, Croatian citizens what are they doing? They carry their gold and silver to numerous shops dealing with the purchase of gold that are zero in Croatia as mushrooms after the rain. You've got them every 20 meters, whatever place is closed, and they're closing up massively, there's an immediate purchase of gold and silver. You can see that in every city, especially us, to say how we, as someone said on the periphery, were mostly in Slavonia. 3.3 billion euros was owed by the government to the Republic of Croatia last year. So she raised one and a half, then 1.8 billion euros. It's exactly 15 floods in Slavonia and Baranja. Namely, flood damages are estimated at around 200m euros, so this government flooded Croatia 15 times stronger than floods in Gunja, Racinovci, Rajev Sela, Stroshinci and other parts of our region, villages in Cvelferia, so that I do not now list them in order but to the Podgai, Đurići and other villages. The decline in consumption, as seen by the state budget from VAT. Despite the rate, so we can raise the VAT to 50% and we won't have a charge of the state budget. There's no more people to spend, no more spending, no more money. And the thinking of increasing the VAT rate heard in the previous months was in vain. You can raise the VAT to 50%, to 40%, however, the state budget will not be charged. What's the decision to move? One analyst says, let me tell scientist Kukuriku the implementation, otherwise an economic expert, so that if Croatia had a GDP increase of 5 to 6% per year, it would only raise and meet EU standards in 2035. That's right, so he's from the left but he's a scientist at a Zagreb college. 300 thousand citizens are in red as they say, popular. So no matter how they get to work, get paid, can't get out of that debt, they're in debt slavery. Someone says 60 grand, and someone says as many as 80,000 companies are in a blockade. And now we're discussing our 2013 budget. We can turn around here and roll over who's to blame, whether the HDZ government, told by counterpart Bonačić, was returning interest of nearly 10 billion kuna to return the old loans. And who will bring back those who were raised last year? 3.3 billion euros, who's gonna pay it back? Will the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament say that is the fault of those who are, so we will not from Turkish times who is guilty. You're guilty of both of them who you've run this country and who you didn't know how to run this country. Not only is this disproportionate of 68% of GDP a debt, a public debt, we have here even as someone said here and the debts of the unit of local and regional self-government. So when you add that up then you say it over 90% of GDP is actually a debt. At least according to the data and the quote that I quote from a colleague who just spoke here. Imports, agricultural products, mainly, do not subsidise. We can say that we have increased exports, we can say that we have growth in industrial production, and if we compare previous years and even tourism and it is falling. Although we have constant commendation on HRT, we have media monitoring, the PR and I do not know how our Croatian tourism blooms. Let's compare 2008 and 2014 so we'll see if it blooms. And he is in a situation that actually tends to be downward or stagnating, at best stagnating compared to 2012 and compared to 2008 is in decline. And actually this establishment of order, I would say here metaphorically in the morgue, when we hear all of this, and when we look at all of this, and that's the fiscalization that I would call it the establishment of order in the morgue because it's all dead, there's some result. It's my turn, but first of all for work. Because without GDP growth, all these macroeconomic indicators are in vain. They're simply useless if there's no GDP growth. Because then the public debt if the GDP rises, if this one stands at the same level, clearly that the percentage is smaller is the absolutely clear account of the mathematical operation. Now, it's a conjugal as someone said here's a guarantee. In order to avoid the introduction into the budget itself, the guarantees do not fall within the scope of this Regulation. Who? So all the institutions run by the Department of Transport. Starting from Croatia's airports to the Croatian Railways, Cargo, Travel and Infrastructure as already there are three companies in Croatia. And what is the state of these companies? In a catastrophic one. And we all know what's going on with the Croatian railroads. We also have information about shipbuilding that a colleague here said about 160 million guarantees for shipyards, and we all said that we would have promised, signed the EU, and this was the last prerequisite that the state would raise its hands from it, from shipbuilding, but here through the guarantees is somehow not to say forcibly something is happening in that sense. Excessive deficit procedure, someone mentioned here. We know that with the EU and here is Mr. Minister well addressed, and the former minister, it has been achieved that the excessive deficit has been reduced below 4% as it has been said. And then this second pillar of retirement insurance and some other stuff came in, so we got a picture that, let's say, we got into the mold, that we got into some sort of order. And it is good that here the minister pointed out that in some way we are going to say a new way of financial calculation, the calculation is getting closer to that calculation in most European Union countries. But either for nothing or for nothing, if I repeat, we don't have an increase in GDP. Investments as one of the drivers of the growth of gross social product are out of nowhere. We see today, both yesterday and these days and announcements, and travel from, and arrivals of various worlds not to tell a powerful man here and from the Arab world, and from Russia, from America, etc. who simply come, go and after, after the media does it well in terms of the PR, nothing happens after that. We also know about negotiations with the Azerbaijani, with Qatar, with the United States, Russia and who not, and with business people. But despite all the investment in Croatia stands, they do not move. Construction is in deep crisis, the processing industry is also, about agriculture that I'm not talking about, this Kukuriku coalition has nailed the last nail into our farm coffin which is visible or visible to the quantity, here's the amount of milk being produced, there is now no fellow Milinkovic he would know in a liter of one to say. But about how much the livestock fund has been reduced in Croatia. So just look at the statistical yearbooks, let's say from 71 or 81, and let's compare them to today's data for 2013 and you'll see that, agricultural production is halved. And now a little bit about this, about doing the budget. I noticed in the revenue side, says such administrative and administrative fees are, so here we have an increase and a complete execution. It's very interesting that we have a good result in fees, that's what people and citizens pay when they are instructed in any institution in the state to exercise any right. We have a problem on the spending side, they say with health insurance. Well, Mr. Minister, when you made the budget, not you, but the former minister, for 2014, so you knew Croatia's application for the European Union that it would be, that it had to be paid, it should be accounted for immediately. So these billions and 800 million kuna were planned to pay for Croatia's membership in the European Union in half a year. And that was known to be 1.7. Croatia comes in and that it should be paid. It was also known and known every year for a minus in the health system of the Republic of Croatia which was also to be included. It's also known about these interest rates that a colleague here is talking about, which are interest on previous loans, from previous years of 9 billion and 800 million, and that should have been accounted for. Why now suddenly you present us here as a surprise, as we were surprised by the losses in the hospital system, the payment for Europe, the European Union, and here's the interest that should have been paid for old loans. Why would that surprise us, why did it surprise the government in the first place, after two years of government? Well, that should have included her right away. No surprises, nothing should surprise us, says one old, or your old proverb. So, when we look at an explanation of the results of income and income, expenditure and expenditure of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia there are interesting figures and I am not really, given as a doctor, a mathematician and a financier, I am not an expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82125	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82126	Okay, we'll talk about health care and retirement later. Thank you very much. I brought it in. So the HDSSB club won't be in favour of this report, so it won't vote. And for the State Audit report, we'll also be in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82127	Thank you. We have reported three replicas, but since we can't do all three replicas in four minutes, then we'll leave the replicas in 15.00 hours to be fair to everyone who's replicated. I'm setting a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82128	Please, colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Comrade Grubisic, we have replicas of your exposure. The first to reply to the presentation of counterpart Grubisic was Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, in your discussion you spoke about demographics, data that are devastating and I agree that they are bad. However, given the disaster I hear today given the mantra that is very often repeated, and that has not been done at all, and given the exaggeration of everything that has been done, any shifts that have been made, I'm actually surprised if there are any people who have stayed here at all. The situation of course is not pink when you look at what has been happening for years, unreasonable borrowing before recession and in recession which of course paralysed the state in dealing with the effects of the five-year global crisis and what is left of us, actually service the inherited debt and the disorder found. These were the great weights that welcomed this government and essentially started to solve it. I emphasized, and you reiterated that this deficit, which is, most of the deficits are interest on previous debts, which is 60%, or 9.8 billion, and that's true, you asked yourself, and who's going to pay back these debts in the future? But when you look at the real thing that's been done and what expectations we have, what results we've had so far, then you know who is, I'm surprised you're even asking that. Because when you look at it, we could have, and then I said, the deficit could have dropped to zero, but that the money wasn't left to the economy, or that it wasn't taxing the reinvested profits. When you look at the data from FINA, you say there's no investment, but precisely because of the tax relief for reinvested profits, the data from FINA says that investments have increased by 14% and the most small companies you've said were ruined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82130	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82131	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Shimac-Bonačić, I respect this replica of yours, but look, we also had a health leave of 13%, and it's said that it will go 2% for the economy. What are the results of this economy left with a billion and 800 million kuna, how much is that 2%? None. What are the results of the economy now? How many entities are there, so economically blocked in the state? 80 grand. With those 300 thousand citizens, individually. So, no effect, the measures don't have you, they don't bring us any effect at all. And speaking of demographic policy, which is important for the pension fund, who's going to make your pensions and our pensions tomorrow. So, France that had a series of Napoleon wars, I. and II. The world war, etc., therefore because of this loss of the population introduced that, instead of paying for the existing and non-existent consulting companies as the Government of the Kukuriku Coalition, the consulting company for the Master plan, so for the sale of Croatia's insurance, she could have paid for this, or for the purchase of cars, directed that for example. be free of charge and available to all children in Croatia. They were born so little, we could at least do it. We could have been at least as sensitive as you and your government as the HDZ, I'm not saying it's any better. So, kindergartens, your kids, and it's free of charge. But it's one of the measures of demographic measures, but it's not there, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82132	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82133	Thank you. You have a colleague with one witty remark, that it is about establishing order in the morgue, perhaps... in the economic morgue because Croatian society is very alive in all its aspects and these 4 million and 300 thousand people as much as they live in the Republic of Croatia today are looking for answers for their existence, they want and want a better future, they want their roof over their head, they want a job, the future for their children, but what it is and it is not just your diagnosis, but it is a diagnosis of anyone who assesses the Croatian economy either from Croatia or outside and that, in fact, the Croatian economy and Croatia's economic policy have had a complete breakdown and that it is in some way, in fact, some economic morgue. Here we hear today that at unemployment rates, which young people, at the bottom of the European country's survey unemployment rate, we are something behind Greece and Spain and more or less in that society by all parameters, any observation when it comes to the economy we are in the company of the three countries. Sometimes in front of one of them, sometimes behind one of them, but unfortunately, really, really one difficult and invisible position and then often false optimism without any cover in any way can have its own sense of raising optimism or mobilizing its own electoral body. But if it's about facing reality, then I really don't think there's any room for optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82134	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82135	Yes, colleague Djurovic, you did well to remind me of what I said. So I'm going to start at the end of your line, which is that this reality or that notion of poverty and debt slavery. So we can talk about perception, but it is actually more objective and more realistic exactly the reality of poverty of Croatian citizens. That's what it is, you can see what they say from the plane if you want. I used the word morgue, I should have said economic morgue. But it's like a surgeon like you that came up with our idea. We can also say that in such an, in such an economic death, there is a song of militias training strictness. It can be said that our financial police or the militia are training strictness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82136	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Grubisic. I'll look back at the replica on the part where you mentioned agriculture. In this whole chaos of two and a half years and a delay of only two and a half years, I must say that such disorganization has long since been seen anywhere by me since I was 55. It's about agriculture, and we had a board today, a very important committee. It was, among other things, the financial envelopes that were therefore negotiated and were now the best envelope. And imagine now, colleague Grubisic, 1.8th is the deadline for handover to the European Commission. Today it's 1.7. The Assembly takes up to 15.7. People are asking that in the Parliament what we supported in front of HDZ be held a session of parliaments with this topic, so problems in agriculture. However, we received a reluctance. These important topics cannot be discussed, and they are also crucial to today's budget. And what's the same other than that topic. Let's say this partnership agreement. The government sent it to Brussels at the same time last minute. We have not discussed it the same way in this Croatian Assembly. In reality, when you look at colleagues Grubisic about important things in this Croatian Parliament if it is agriculture, if it is an economy, we cannot discuss life-related matters because such a agenda is complex and the way that we discussed before this break I would say about trivial reports already for 2012 which have passed, and about these important things here we cannot talk about now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82138	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82139	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, I wasn't on that important committee, I don't know what was being discussed. But I do know that there is a common agricultural policy in the European Union CAP, a common agricultural policy whose objectives are intended to be implemented by 2020. Whether Croatia fits into this common agricultural policy or not is not that difficult to say, but apparently we are lagging behind and lagging behind. But what I proposed to the HDZ Government and parliamentary representatives in my first term before the end of the term of office, which is legalisation, free legalisation of agricultural facilities so that our farmers can, therefore, compete with legal objects in competitions for programmes from the European Union, for programmes from agriculture. Unfortunately, it is your government and you Assembly representatives of HDZ that you have refused to explain that not all citizens are equal, although it is not the same to legalise a cottage in Rogoznica and some barn in Stroshinci or some farm in Grizic or in Bilica or in Caglin. So it's not the same. So this is a production plant, and the cottage is a cottage. Therefore, you refused, and this was the reference year which could show the number of farmers and the number of farms in Croatia. This was rejected and you are also participants in the collapse of Croatian agriculture compared to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82140	Thank you. Next up for discussion Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82141	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished state auditor. Well, here's what I want to say about the 2013 budget because that's what it was. There's no turning back, there's no such thing as forecasting. There are figures clear. 2013 is over. It's all numbered here, so I'll lead my debate from two angles. One is the one that we had before the budget was adopted, which we were promised in 2013 and the other is how it affects what was done in 2013 on 2014 and 15th etc., let's see if we've even moved away from 2011 or we'll conclude that after 3 years of this government, we're worse than we were, i.e. That we're in worse shape than you found in 2011. And why, then, the government that only creates bad events, i.e. It can't help us as a people, as citizens to at least live a little better, and hundreds of billions of kuna are spent, and we negatively, always wrong. Because it doesn't matter any less the moment we're discussing this execution for 2013. Because let's look at the headlines of Croatian newspapers, they scream daily, passing on some thoughts of experts, foreign experts, agencies that say Croatia is on the Top 10 list of countries that have the worst economy in 2014. What does the CNB say? Croatia has the worst economic performance in the EU. Be careful, our Croatian National Bank. Then the next title is "Croatia's New Greece". You have an inert government and the worst economy in the EU. And today, again, one big title called "The Collapse of the Tourist Season." This is the moment where we talk about what happened in 2013, as the state did in 2013. This isn't written in some kind of HDZ messenger, these are all relevant journalists, experts, so people who understand the moment. If we're already politicians, we don't understand, but these people understand. Because we also have the next moment that happened. Clean-ups, technical staff were organized and preparations were made for the third referendum in this government. Just imagine that reach. In three years of office, the three referendums have already been prepared. So if something this government knows clearly can earn a referendum with its policy. And perhaps what we all missed most important that we discuss at this point in 2013 is still in the air the recent conflict of the minister, the former minister who left and the current prime minister who stayed because I don't know how we can get past it just like that. Well, there were nice, nice words suitable for Croatian bonton. Not to mention everything, just some, incompetent, lazy, not reading, criminal, scheming. So can we ignore it in light of the 2013 budget? Because that's where the atmosphere was put together by the ruling coalition, which is supported by 13% of the people in all the polls. And everyone says you're going the wrong way. And then today a new minister comes and says everything's great, everything's nice. We gave the entrepreneurs this, little craftsmen this, we gave it there, all nice. Not a word about 2013 and the implementation of the budget. It's like some kind of pre-election rally. We didn't vote for this budget, we left for a misunderstanding with the amendments, remember that? The HDZ did not vote, it was brought by the ruling majority, and some other members of the opposition left at the time because the government had not discussed any amendments we had proposed. And if that budget for 2013 had been adopted, it would have looked much, much better than it looks in execution. And what did they promise us for 2013? We forget much or often. I'll only have two Prime Minister's statements when he promoted that 2013 budget in 2012. Next year, I will not allow the expenditures of the state budget to be unrealistic, the first statement. And then another even more picturesque, populist good day. It was a statement in the adoption of the 2013 budget, populists good day. He announced a number of reforms in 2013. That's why he said "populists" go ahead and criticize us. What happened? Where are the reforms? Nowhere. The Prime Minister is still here. Where's the finance minister? Ex-wife. That's it. So let's see how we planned that original budget. The planned revenues of 113.7, expenditures of 124.5 billion, budget deficits of 10.9 billion or 3.1% of GDP. What's been accomplished? After two rebalances of 108 billion revenue, the expenditures of 123 and the deficit of 16 billion. When you miss 5 billion in incomes that give birth to 5 billion deficits, then who has the right to say he's running a responsible economic policy? Well, that's almost 4% of the total budget. So I think we can then talk in the category that all economic masters are in the Republic of Croatia because it's clear that bad planning causes bad work, and then prosperity or results are also bad. And then the spins, the lies, the stories of this one. Someone's estimating on one side or the other. Because the right opinion determined the revision and wrote what was happening as my colleague Shucker said, they just found out in the book what the state was doing wrong. And we'll talk about everything else later. The minister himself wrote in the explanation: "According to the preliminary data of the State Statistics Institute in 2013 it ended with a 1% drop in economic activity compared to 2012 which is a cumulative decline of as much as 11.9% compared to 2008. And the budget's never bigger. So we keep falling and the budget never goes higher. The average number of registered unemployed was 345 thousand, which is 20 thousand more than 2012. The average number of employees was one million and 364 thousand, down by 30,000. In 2013, GDP is actually lower by 1% compared to 2012. GDP in current prices amounted to €328 billion 252 million, representing a stagnation compared to 2012. And then again today the minister's story was all beautiful, wonderful, and it all looked great. I have singled out an event for myself as the most negative when we talk about the 2013 Budget, and this is also the former Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Jovanovic, who ended this year infamously, and finally the Minister's career. When we warned him at the outset that he was short of money to pay the educators here, they all shook their hands. He came in 12 months, the money's gone, we go fast rebalance, and then we find out that there's about 30 and something million kuna left. So why can't that story pay the travel expenses to the educators? It's a game. Whether someone is telling the truth or not, let those in charge determine it. And that's where he was trying to save the former minister, too, and in the end it all turned out wrong, so neither of them were ministers. But I'm more worried about the other part that's talking about borrowing, borrowing through bonding, so that's terrible. $3 billion 250 million, 750 million, 2 billion 750 million. The auction of the vault records 27.95 billion kuna. Well, that's terrible numbers. That's never been recorded in history. Do we have the right to talk about a successful economic policy for 2013, which is just waiting for us then in 2014, and we heard about it outside the HDZ club where it might end. How are the reforms going, health contributions? We're going to cut it by 2%, so maybe even seven at the end and 15, we're back in 2011, we've had another wrong time. In education, all the programs of that former minister were now down, so let's move on. In the end, everything ends with a reform that will save us the story of some spin off. We create a company of 25 thousand employees, so these are 2 HZs together, it is HZ and Croatia post office together. So did you have any sense and understanding of what it means, who's going to run this company, how is it going to work in the first place, so who even remembers that kind of thing? Well, you have to be in some special condition to start dealing with stories like that. It can't save us. That's why I can only say that one old saying, "A bad start leads to a bad ending.", and unfortunately you stick to it and you won't step away from it, and I think it goes to the harm of Croatian citizens. So let's not talk about a successful 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82142	Comrade Boric, time. We're moving on to replicas. Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82143	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague when it comes to the referendum initiatives, but now not only three, but four, and maybe five, I think they're not just a reflection of the quality of the current government, but also a reflection of the dissatisfaction or mistrust of citizens in general with politics or so on. as they often mention the Colloquial political elites or the attitude of politics and citizens. But the other part that you mentioned, which is the loss of the legitimacy of the current government or the current ruling majority, which is absolutely present and measurable, and in that part of their current electoral body and which is so largely along with these negative results that they have, that they have indeed lost any legitimacy even regardless of the parliamentary majority, whether there is it or not. Maybe if the state were in some conjuncture today it wouldn't have had such a big connection, but in this country that's in this deep recession and there's no possibility of finally starting out of that recession, then and, really, I don't see any, no other answer except as quickly as possible. No matter who wins these elections, who of us will remain in this House, but the simple state of the Croatian economy and Croatian society is so that every month the further continuation of this agony is a pain that this society is becoming more and more difficult to endure. And these people sitting here today, who feel great and think it's going to last, I don't know how long, and they're not aware that it's going to take much longer and that none of them can practically stay on the duties they're acting today because they're the ones who are responsible for this situation and we're with them. But that condition needs to be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82144	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82145	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurović, I tried to paint means what they promised us, where we are today, what is waiting for us in 2014 and how it all looks like. The question, however, is how much we can affect some events. Let's just say there's a finance minister who doesn't have a deputy. The question is if someone wants it to be more. But the government is still holding on, she's still holding on, she wants to stay here for a while because she thinks she's on the right track. Then when the citizens say you're going wrong, they get organized as at this point by cleaning lady, technical staff, janitors. They were so successful in 14 days that they collected over 600,000 signatures. It becomes a normative that is very easy to solve now because the government constantly challenges them with its own policy. That's what she did with the Cyrillic in Vukovar, that was no reason at all. And it just happens to the people, and the people take it into their own hands then. Now, the people here won't force anyone out of power, I hope we don't get to these situations, but they'll come those five minutes, I keep saying that, when a man takes that paper in his hand and says you were good or you were bad. And that's what the government has to know about, but it doesn't. And then we're where we are to watch us all struggle, not go, but nobody does. And then these moments come to us, and now in 2014 we're going to have to fix what was written in 2013 at the end of the year, so we're going to explain why it is, we're going to listen to the Deputy Prime Minister, they're going to explain why the fall again, so it's not so much, so we're optimistic, etc. But the people are getting harder and harder to live. And on the tourist season, we're going to be under the next one, because that's something that was good again, and obviously we've managed to bring it down to one level that's no longer promising for this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82146	Thank you. Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you asked a very interesting question, you said if we were even out of the way. And I say yes, but unfortunately, worse. You've spoken of areas that you know well, I'm mostly talking about agriculture, and today I've been on this Agriculture Committee where the future of agriculture has been debated. And look, by 1.8, it is 2.7 today, by 1.8, it has to be answered and the rules are clearly set out according to the European Commission, and we are discussing today. So did it take a long, long time ago because it's a matter of too important. And now that something's going on, and we've had a lot of opportunities, then they'll say, "This is the problem and that's the problem." We in the country have a saying that says, it's not worth crying for spilled milk, it's not worth it, and it's really too serious stuff. The diagnosis is clear, the diagnosis in agriculture is clear. He seeks therapy, of course, but in agriculture therapy is not fast and radical, neither Grubisic nor Đurovic, they are good surgeons, but they cannot handle it. Once a disease is made, it takes a cycle of five, six years to do it. So I appeal, says our minister to set the rules here, absolutely agree and I agree with that, but mistakes can't be made because once in this, a sensitive, specific area, it makes a mistake, it's more incorrigible. For this reason, such an important issue as agriculture needs to be approached with full responsibility, and now I fear that the disease has gone too far and is very difficult to treat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82148	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82149	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinkovic, you said, are we out of the way? I tried to show through my argument that we didn't move, now, somebody's gonna figure it out one way, I'm looking at it life through practice. What's happening to us? So look at the story of the health contribution. We're going into reform, so it's announced, we're going 2% down, so maybe 7%, etc., after two years where we've been, 15%, please pay. And so it goes on, like nothing happened. There were some minuses, and it was realized that it couldn't work like that anymore. Now, the former director of HZZO, the current minister says HZZO has to get out of the Treasury. Now that he's become a minister, let him stay inside, let him stay. So the next reform in education, the minister announced so the story began, civic education, health education, the next minister came, it should be abolished. So what are the reforms that last a year, two years? Every new minister comes, a new mind comes. Well, it can't work that way. So we have this story with the separation of these auxiliary activities, i.e. The story of cleaning women, so we'll let her all the way into the private sector, and then we'll start a company, I say, that will be bigger than HZ and Croatian mail together in the number of employees. Well, just to be guided, any executive can control 20 of those employees who work on these jobs. Well, that's 1,000 executive functions for you at 25,000 employees. Who the hell can do that? Who does that even come to mind? And there's talk of a lot of savings. And what's gonna be on the field? So look how we operate HZ with so many employees. Croatian mails where the number of employees decreased, so they no longer know how to take the letter from one user to another. And they don't have a problem, they don't write reports, etc., etc. So who's going to control so many people?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82150	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82151	Thank you very much. Col. Boric, what confirms this 2013 Budget Implementation Report? Someone took the right to play with the revenues of the state budget, so he thought that the health contribution should be reduced by 2 percentage points and that it would help the economy in such a way, but the only thing that happened was that the state budget ran out of 2 billion, 302 million and 400 revenues in 2013. However, it may not be so controversial that this report on the implementation of the state budget does not say that the government has rehabilitated health care with 3 billion kuna. And now look, on the one hand, you have 2 billion kunas of less revenue in the state budget, on the other hand you're in charge of relieving these 3 billion, all together when you add up that's 5 billion kuna. And now take that the government is in charge of this for those five billion kunas every 10 years, by some kind of average interest rate of 6%, and 6% per 5 billion to you is about 300 million, so 300 million times 10 years is 3 billion kuna. So someone's gonna talk again, is, how high the interest is. Yeah, let's see what those interest rates were in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and what are they today? And whether this 18-billion-dollar debt, as far as it's concerned this year, should be paid or not pay interest. However, the poor government, which is outsourcing is the main structural reform. So what's the situation... you might need an outsourcing to change the cracked water pipes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82152	Branko Bacic, replica. Excuse me, answer me. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82153	Thank you very much. I have to answer to my colleague Shuker because he's just right. That's what we warned you about. Here's what my colleague Dalic said today, so we'll be in charge of it in the short term? For what? What they are, they are no longer any stories, no reforms, it's the exhibition that became there, the exhibition. And today the minister tells us that it's a great fiscalisation project, that everyone needs equal and equal treatment as employers, like those on the market and all the time on fiscalization. He didn't say a word about pre-fashion deals. And is that even among employers? Someone's got to sweat for 10 million kunas of pure profit, and someone's got to write off 10 million of those with a feather move. What are the causes of all this and such behavior? Are we growing or are we falling in charge of the Republic of Croatia? Are we losing the number of outstanding claims? Or did it start to grow? Or did those who were okay realize that it was easier to make a million kunas in a pre-profit settlement than their own business? These are stories that need to be cleared up. This budget for 2013 may be spoken of in one way. We need to read it through all the items because where there's so much praise about something that's not there, there's no success, the projects that were designed as some kind of reform by the arrival of new ministers have disappeared or failed, and now we're just waiting for when this government's mandate will end. I think that's what everyone's waiting for in the Republic, to do it more and people to try to choose some new people who will at least give them some hope because they don't even hope too much in any policy anymore. But what we have now, so just look at this privatisation of tourist companies, that's what we're talking about here all the time. How is it done, where does it go, and how will it end? But I'll talk about it under the next point even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82154	Thank you. Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You will tell your colleague, Boric, in your debate, that the government has not passed the exam that has not implemented the plan that has been submitted to this House in the form of a 2013 budget proposal. But not only did the Government not confirm by this report that it did not implement the budget adopted in December or at the end of November 2012, but rather that it was unimaginable that it was not realised or rebalance of the budget that this Parliament adopted on a proposal from the Government in December 2013, practically that rebalancing meant the implementation of the budget for that year because we were to assume that we knew all the parameters in December 2013 for the state budget when we adopted it at the end of the year. So the government then predicted a 0.2% GDP growth, although all analysts said that economic analysts would see a 1% drop in 2013 as officially confirmed later. So no reforms have been made, no cuts in expenditure, no increases in revenues for reasons that investments in Croatia have not occurred. The announced external investment was lagging behind, making it even more surprising that the government had failed and stimulated private sector investment, when private investments did not occur, so that it gave up a number of investment in the public sector and, for example, in road construction, as we know, the construction sector is fully on its knees, stopping investment in the public sector. So you know well you were the secretary of state for the islands that even the EIB 3 we adopted and signed and which meant a number of investments in the Croatian coast and in the continental part of Croatia were stopped and that numerous investments per unit of local self-government were also not realised. All of this eventually led to no increase in income and we got what we are, it's that he experienced a historically large deficit and that today we are where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82156	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82157	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, I'll remind you of what I said here once. There was a Hungarian prime minister before Orban who, when they left, was also the left government, they said, we lied all day and night just to stay in power. It was a statement that was obtained in a strange way, so it was investigated, but perhaps it was honest, probably. Because how else do you interpret what you were talking about? Here is the Ministry of Regional Development, which is at the historical minimum, and should be the bearer of all investments in the Republic of Croatia in particular at local level, has a budget of 679 million and 500 million, 599 million planned. So every time you get there, there's no money for a date, when the year is over, there's 70 to 100 million left and they're still on the rebalancing list for 100 million. So you're asking if anyone's doing anything there? And whoever asks something is supposed to get at least for some little project for nothing has no money. Well, if that's how we run politics, then we don't have to have a deficit at all. Because here's an example of the second, the Maritime Ministry at 5.5 billion has a much smaller minus. non-expensive assets. How's that? Well, obviously someone else is doing something else. Because we can't tell people then there's no money we don't know how we're going to solve it or just turn to European funds. Because the fact is that they told us there's no more life on the line than a long life. And just look at the amount of borrowing, over 32 billion, with us putting in advance another 9 so it's 40 in 2013 so they're not late or they were excellent or favourable conditions. That's great. Well, then let's put ourselves in charge and now for one 20 billion for 2016 if that's all so good. Well, I think there's a policy going on where it looks like this to me that anyone can be a finance minister, and I don't think that's because it shouldn't be like that. Still, it's one responsible function, but behavioral patterns show that the easiest thing to do is if something doesn't go away and we're in charge of someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82158	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82159	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, you said in your debate when you argued your views and the attitude of the citizens that the government was going in the wrong direction, you said that the minister here was saying this and that,... to convince people that it wasn't. The minister didn't say this and what, the minister was saying concrete figures, I wrote down a lot of them, some of them I'm going to try to say in this short replica, and mostly those five points the minister touched. Therefore, all social benefits and all social transfers were met in 2013 by the fact that 7,000 false recipients of social assistance were recorded and these transfers were interrupted, by introducing a single minimum social benefit institute. The pensions are also not only to be paid but the indexation has been carried out. When we talk about health obligations 3.3 billion kuna, the truth is, you're here talking about a 15% reduction in contributions to 13%. Let's not forget the fact that 2011. 205,000 workers did not receive salaries and were not paid for them or contributions. With this move, the government has consciously entered, which is often explained here because it was believed that the commitment of VAT directly paid by citizens was thus burdened by consumption. But in that part, most of the goods that are now substantially changing are increasing exports, which was important for import goods. Therefore, the VAT increase did not stop domestic production. Incentives for jobs either through credit reprogrammes or tax debt either through pre-departure agreements or tax exemptions for reinvested profits, as the minister also spoke of. This also increased the capitalisation of companies. You mentioned that, the most we're talking about fiscalization, it's a regular and competitive fight on the market that has to be the same for everyone. Here I tried briefly in the replica to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82160	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82161	Thank you very much. I find it hard to convince you there on the other hand that what you support is bad. It's a sizif's job, but you've concluded to yourself that you're successful in going well, regardless of what's left of one large part of the people, I've also said the figures of some kind, saying something different. So I'm going to quote you just one saying and she says that "The source of the greatest sadness in the present is looking at the joy of the past." I think she's picturesque enough and she's clear enough, even though that joy in the past hasn't been too much in at least 2.5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82162	Thank you. Next up for debate is Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, Mr. Auditors with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's material in front of us that should be able to determine what happened, what happened. However, when before this debate you get from the Parliamentary Commission for Fiscal Policy that the fiscal rule for 2013 is not met, and immediately at the beginning of the state audit, it tells you that the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, the lack of the general government's income has not been correctly shown, etc., then man asks himself the question that we are discussing. If the government in the projection of this budget started with an assumption of economic growth of 1.8% and we ended up with minus 1% that's a cumulative 2.8%. And no one can say that it won't affect the revenues of the state budget very much. And the other thing, Mr. Vice President, is that the individual debate lasts 12 minutes. You can take a look at the phonogram of the debate. It's the President of the Parliament this morning, so it's agreed and I'm asking you to calculate it for me this half minute. So, then the logical thing that happened to us is what happened to us. However, what I said when the budget rebalancing was being discussed last year somewhere in half the year that I was no longer afraid for 2013 but that I was more afraid for 2014 that we had what we once had at the Ministry of Finance, which is that between the 1st and the 4th of the month there was a briefing for journalists to inform the Croatian public and Croatian citizens about the charging and spending of the state budget and then probably this debate would be different. Why? So because they would see that many of the things that are in some way hidden by the government's inaction in 2013 are very dangerous for 2014. In the first four months, our incomes are lower by more than 4.5 billion kuna and our expenditures are higher by more than 3 billion kuna. It's a deficit for the first four months. And now you can think of this kind of tourist season as going to be our 2014 budget. And so, once again, the question is not to quote again the state audit finding of the actual deficit of the national budget of 2013. He's not 16.2 billion, he's over 18.5 billion. That's a fact. And now we can fight here as much as we want. But what is crucial, the budget is the main instrument for managing the economic policy of a single government. The efficiency of one government's economic policy is seen primarily on the revenue side of the budget. And the most damage on these government budgets since 2012, 2013 and 2014 is exactly the revenue side of the budget that wants to be covered by new tax burdens. Even when we discussed the VAT Act, then we clearly warned that Croatia's entry into the European Union effect later on VAT charges would be around a billion and 700, billion and 800. It's not said then it won't win, it'll be several hundred million kunas. Here's what we have here, which is the effect of the zeroth rate, is it visible in the 2013 budget? In order to enter the European Union, we had to abolish the zero rate on bread, milk and other food products, on children's food, etc. And the total effect is about a billion and 800. So, with the VAT rate rising by 8.8% or 2 percentage points, we also have a zero-rate elimination that brings up a billion and 800 new revenues in the state budget. But where do we get our incomes? Right on VAT. And then let's brag here about the great successes of fiscalization. So if the success of fiscalization is to be seen anywhere you need to be seen at the VAT position and you need to be seen in the income tax position, nowhere else. Because if someone reported 30, 60% higher income than last year, then they had to report a higher VAT rate of 30% or 60%, we don't have that. And so when we talk about individual results, then from that percentage part, it's a far more nominal amount because then everyone will get a clear situation which is and how it is. But what worries me, I was worried, and while I was a minister, I am also concerned now as a parliamentary representative whether anyone in Croatia will ever have enough political strength to determine how much it costs Croatian health care. Today we heard here with the same thing I'm going to say here publicly, the separation of HZZ from the Treasury is dangerous, you know why? Because of all those obligations of the state budget towards the HZZ, which are determined by certain laws that weigh more than 5.5 billion kuna. So let's make that 5.5 billion kuna if it's going to stand out from the state budget for that amount to reduce the health contribution, not to leave a health contribution of 15% that will bring 19 billion and another 5.5 billion we're going to have to make out of the state budget. It's the key to the whole story. But here when we bring a report on the implementation of the state budget, when the state audit finds it, then someone in this country must finally say that, and that day minus in health is so much, so much and so much. Well, it can't happen that two years in a row we're dealing with health care with several billion kunas, and we're saying in every budget that health costs are 21 billion that year, and that health care is going to work with it most normally, and we've known for years that that's not how it works. So who are we cheating on? You're on your own. And what kind of situation do we have? We have the kind of unsatisfactory doctors, dissatisfied citizens, dissatisfaction with the economy because that health contribution rate is extremely high and makes work quite uncompetitive and the result we have is what we have, we here in the Parliament have a political bickering that doesn't lead us anywhere. When we talk about the budget and what particularly bothers me, this high house adopted the budget rebalancing in December. And now look, the budgeting of that rebalancing is a billion and 600 less. Back then, all the ministers were complaining that I couldn't even make it through the year, but look what happened to the execution. The Department of Defense instead of 4 billion and 500, 4 billion and 100 once... The defence ministry instead of a billion 80 is enough a billion 55, the economy ministry a billion 520, now enough is a billion 440. The Ministry of crafts 560, now once a year and especially successful, never the entrepreneurs and craftsmen received so much money, and they received 350 million or 210 million less than planned 15 days before the end of the financial year. That's amazing. That's unserious. How can someone at 12 months ask the Prime Minister to give him 560 million and then finish a year with 350 million, while some teachers and teachers couldn't get the money or someone else didn't get the money, these 200 million just disappeared in the air. Or the Ministry of Agriculture 4 billion 252, but they end up a year with 3 billion 980, so 270 million kunas were less obtained by Croatian farmers. Well, didn't the Minister of Agriculture know that at the moment of budget rebalance, 15 days before the end of the year that he wouldn't spend that 270 million. The Regional Development Ministry 679 599 means 80 million kuna less. The Ministry of Science and Education 11 billion 940 ends a year with 11 billion 907, and remember how much panic there was with teachers, with teachers who had not paid travel expenses, who had not paid off some other obligation based on a collective contract that was not greater than these 35 million kunas. So why did I say the government budget deficit was fixed? Well, it's precisely because of this data, because if some 15 days before the end of the year it took so much money and complained that it couldn't end, then obviously something didn't pay. Why? Because it was seen on the 31st of the 12th day, when the highest day, when it sat once and a half billion on the jury's budget, that on the 31st of the year, it wasn't so generous, there were fewer revenues and then the expenditures were so reduced. In fact, no expenditure was paid, which was confirmed by the minister when it came to this huge increase in expenditure in 2014, that certain expenditures from 2013. So this budget clearly tells us that structural reforms have not been implemented, and we can talk as much as we want, the two biggest budget consumers, that's health and science that spend together around 33 billion national budgets haven't implemented any structural reform. The reduction in the cost of employees, one half of which is to reduce your health contribution to 2 percentage points because somewhere around 570, 580 million were at the state level on an annual basis and when you take the effect of all of this together, you have a total reduction in wages of 670 million then you have a reduction. It's not even where God knows what he's doing. And finally, the State Audit report. Thus, the famous, inventive revenue, the sale of shares to HANDA to CERRP, an imaginary transaction to increase the revenues of the state budget by 600 million and to reduce the deficit of the state budget by that amount. The CERP is an out-of- budget user, it is guaranteed by the state, the guarantee is not entered in the cost, the guarantee will only be entered in the cost when it is protested, but already in January or February as far as I know it in 2014 is 340 million protested on salaries from the state budget. This will be the deficit of the 2014 state budget. So that 600 million per cent can't be the income of a state budget. Such a transaction is simply not to happen and it is simply not true in the Croatian public and in this House of Commons about how Croatia finally has a Register of Assets. DUDI is the data he had simply inserted into the computer and now you can surf by it, you can see something and it's a register. No, it's not a register, it's not made by some criteria, by some models that can be used, property isn't registered by value, by the same methodology, a million and one thing, but it's important that we say that we finally did something and they didn't do anything before us. And they're just the data, the ones before them that they had put in one place so that they could see through and get that data. And colleagues and colleagues, so when all of this is summed up unfortunately, Croatia is where, however, what I said last year, I am now afraid for 2015 because 2014 will be a far greater deficit than expected, and that means a risk for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82164	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, you have devoted one part of your exposure to health care as others have mentioned this as a significant problem. But let me remind all of us that when it came into that so-called. The rehabilitation of health care, and when the state was in charge of 3.3 billion for the rehabilitation of healthcare, then it was said that everything that has been done so far was wrong, that the resolution would solve it. It will be resolved by forming rehabilitation councils in which each was represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. All the directors of all the institutions were executed, similar renaissance managers were placed, and it was said to solve the problem. I said at the time in this Chamber that it would not solve anything because it was not planned, let alone some of the structural reforms that you mentioned, of course, that these new similar renaissance managers would find themselves very quickly in the same situation as those former directors, and it did indeed happen. It's really generated a new debt and it's still generated. About 150 to 200 million people are missing health care every month, and we know that. That's what's happening right now. It took place last month, last month, etc. Therefore, it is very clear that this money was not used to finally end the creation of new debts and to create those reforms that are needed but continued in exactly the same way only now are new people who are put in those places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82166	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82167	Dear colleague Reiner, so if it's a health care recovery, then you know what that means. However, this health care recovery has exclusively served to relieve directors. and it is illogical if it is said to be a Croatian pharmaceutical industry, i.e. The drug dealers paid billions and more kunas all of a sudden. People didn't even know what money was going to do. That there has been no significant reduction in the price of medicines because if you pay someone now within 60 days before, you have not paid them in 200 or 300 days. So that capital cost had to be included in the price of the drug, and that's how it was paid. But that didn't happen. I just want to know if anyone in Croatia will ever have the strength to draw a line and say Croatian healthcare at both national level and those hospitals at the county level are financed by decentralised funds. It says you owe so much and so much money. On the other hand, Croatian health care costs so much or so on the annual level, one way or another. And only when it's revealed then can we talk about that health care has been resolved. As long as we don't get that information, and trust me, it's impossible to get it, and there's always talk about some kind of... That's what you showed that it wasn't paid above a certain deadline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that they've increased, it means that the debt of health has increased, and they've been messing with it all the time. However, I repeat the release of HZZO from the Treasury that, above all, the Minister of Finance must see how much it will cost him. So, 30% tobacco tax. Article 63 is replaced by the following: The whole story is about five and a half billion kunas. When HZZO is singled out from the Treasury, then it will be the expenditure side of the state budget, and HZZO will have its revenues. Just one sentence, please. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] That they will have income from contributions and have revenues from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82168	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke about all the details in this display, as well as the revision that indicates that the data in the main book are not complete, that the lack of the general government's income is not precisely indicated, that there is a lack of normative regulation within the framework of the implementing part of the law which opens up a space for effective operational management of budgetary resources, and a different interpretation of certain provisions of the law, that the Government is spending funds on budget supplies contrary to the provisions of the Budget Act and the Law on the implementation of the state budget. The audit also identified a number of other irregularities in the implementation of the state budget and expressed its final opinion and conditional opinion. In this segment, it can be said that these tax policies are, in fact, the result of this failure that has been achieved in fiscal discipline can actually be assessed as one of the essential failures of this current government and which is trying to actually show a marked enmity, i.e. with regard to citizens, with regard to craftsmen, by applying extreme rigorous measures to the collection of their claims. But at the same time, they do not adhere to any of the legal norms or respect them, even though they have announced that they will be paid regularly, in due time and in the manner they require the law. The findings of the audit clearly show that there is no sign of it, that everything is missed and that in fact one brutality towards those who are possibly from craftsmen and survivors is being treated to destroy them too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82170	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82171	Thank you very much. Col. Djakic, a few hundred thousand are registered annually in the National Budget Treasury, we can say several million items. And when an amendment to the Budget Law is proposed, then, among other things, we have come to the basis of experience and talks with the State Audit, so that it would be great to submit a report on the implementation of the budget and the State Audit, but exclusively concerning the correct recording and correct recording of certain transactions. Why? So it doesn't happen that something here is being discussed with a year or two behind, which unfortunately happens especially when the methodology has changed. There, that is exactly what the strength of this audit report is except, unfortunately, many have not read it. Because if a lot of people had read it, then they'd be very worried about what's inside. There's nothing written that's not a fact. There is something written just because there are positive legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia, and that is also the function of the revision whether someone liked it or not. Because in the end, it can't be said that the Ministry of Finance was constantly getting an unconditional opinion for its rope business. There were years when and for the budget part there was a conditional opinion or it was merely a public debt remark and an asset that had not been harmonised. But I'm saying, we and the Parliament's Committee on the Fiscal Rule, which also established it. Even the Fiscal Responsibility Act was not passed because it was someone's whim, but simply all those instruments that we had through the State Audit and through the Budget Law proved ineffective. Someone can't easily say that a position has been exceeded because of that and that. Because according to the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, the one who has exceeded his position must, if anything else for any moral reasons, offer the Prime Minister his mandate at his disposal. So let the Prime Minister accept that it was justified to overstep, but the Fiscal Responsibility Act should simply drive all budgetary users away to one economic behaviour. and rational use of funds. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82172	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82173	Oh, thank you. Well, here's fellow Shuker when it comes to the health system, if I can add my opinion, it's that we have one system that's too good and too expensive and we can no longer finance it as a state. Now, whether we're going to increase that system's revenue or reduce expenditure in one way or another it's now just a question of the model in which we're going to organize it. But I think if it is about reforming that system in any way that has gone into reforming that system, it should go from reforming the health insurance system and the relationship that is being established within that health insurance system. This is the starting point. The initial point of change of these systems cannot be its end-users. And now there are countless elements and problems that arise. By the way, when you mentioned the prices of medicines, I have to mention one example that I recently met with, which is that HZO, for example, I saw it on facebook and I went to check that it was true that HZZO agreed on the eye fat of the Krka manufacturer and that the price is 42 kuna and that the same fat in BiH cost 6 kuna in sales. So, we can contract as a state insurance company 700% higher price of the same product than it costs in free sale in the neighbouring country. God himself knows as much as what products and services this HZZO has actually and at what prices it has contracted in relation to prices in the surrounding countries. Apparently, they consult on the reference prices when they're negotiated in the surrounding countries, but the question here is on this example of this fat I've claimed almost something amazing that we can negotiate the price 700% higher than an ordinary product costs in the neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82174	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82175	Look, colleague Djurovic, someone's struggling to isolate HZO from the Treasury. Nothing's gonna change, HZZO's in the Treasury, now he's got his position and what this High House approves of him. He can't spend. Tomorrow he will also have to give his financial plan to this High House and spend on the basis of that money. But maybe I won't pull a real parallel now, and unfortunately, the result is the same. For years, no one or six Croatian shipyards could force them to unite and go together to tender for the supply of lemons. Well, wouldn't it make more sense if all the medications for hospitals were also obtained by the basis of a single contest? It is known how much the consumption of these medicines is, and also that control of these medicines and distributions be assured that they would come to a far lower price because they would pay in time, because you have regular incomes and also more rational use would come to this. But it's structural reform, it's not exorcising. It's structural reform. And if someone offered something like that, I don't think there's anyone in this assembly, no matter what political option anyone would not raise a hand for it. But you can't raise your hand when someone tells you I'll get out of the treasure and I'll solve the problems of Croatian health care. That's not true, but he and the treasurer will come in trouble with liquidity because at some point he won't have money because in certain cycles his money comes in. The treasury also uses that money at a given time when health care is not needed. But the final result is the same. It's a payment plan, and you know it. Unfortunately, though, for the reform should have political will, heavy blows should be suffered because what is happening to this government? As soon as the pressure gets a little bit stronger on the side, it's giving up on that project because now something else is going on. It's the most obvious example of outsorcing. If this government has concluded and it is ultimately its right, that is exorcising something that is good so I disagreed with it they are in power and let them conduct it. But not as clear as they turn not for 360 but for 720 degrees, they set up a single mega state-owned company and at the same time we say that the state is not a good master and then we sell Croatia's insurance for why.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82176	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker here is already in this conference, and before you speak as a representative, especially when it comes to budgets and economics. Indeed, today you spoke with argument, pointing to problems. So here you wanted to show and talk to today's minister, and before and before, who's wrong and who's lying. You asked what the deficit was? You were talking about fiscal responsibility, and just remember that when this today's power was proposed by the Fiscal Responsibility Act and Zoran Milanovic, who is the prime minister today, of course they didn't support it at all, that was out of the question. And it seems to me that you're right, today they act that way. You were talking about agriculture, among other things, and how the Minister of Agriculture didn't matter the 270 million that was taken off him because he didn't know what he was going to do at the end of the year. The truth is, he didn't know because if he knew, at least then he'd know some kind of economics from his farm in his orchard because there was no apple grown and he couldn't sell it. And now that all this man listens to you and listens to some of this ruling and some of the opposition, then I wonder, and I'll paraphrasise yesterday. Yesterday was the day when the prime minister came to pick up 75 attempts to finally figure out what happened in the flooded areas and his wife was telling him here everything was flooded, we're ruined, we're poor, we don't have and he's compassionately saying that I understand you, you know, and I got a pipe in my apartment. After that, there's really nothing to say. After that, there is no sequel at all because such compassion and understanding of the government's problems are felt every day. Not just on that example, it's a paraphrasing example.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82178	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82179	Some who can be quite rude should be warned that in this House they do not mumble simple things because we can speak the same, but it has never been a habit. Comrade twilight, the Fiscal Responsibility Act is a law that checks whether anyone is ready for structural reforms. And that law was passed because of it. However, unfortunately neither we had the strength to implement it until the end of 2011, but this government is, in fact this political nomenclature was when it was passed that law was against that law. And what the finance minister has to listen to here today, it's basically none of his business, I don't think it's his business, it's his business, but everyone else did what we're criticizing today. He proposed the budget, the budget was adopted, and someone else used and spent the budget. They have some things that the State Audit has established that go to the Ministry of Finance's soul, but in the execution of the budget, everyone else is guilty, not the finance minister. Because we've adopted a budget here, we've given someone something to spend, and if someone with it can't implement their programme, whether it's the ministry or the office, he's responsible for it, not the finance minister. And when we figure it out here and when we start acting this way, it'll be easier for the Minister of Finance, it'll be easier for the state to audit, and also for Croatia's politics, it'll be a far greater responsibility. Because the two laws I am personally proud of are the Law on the OIB and the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, unfortunately they never applied as it was intended to apply. The fiscal responsibility law was a desperate move after all the application of the Budget Law to force budgetary users to spend what this Parliament has approved. Because we're the ones who give the last nail to the Croatian budget. And no one has the right to spend more than what this high house has approved. That's the whole point of the story. But unfortunately, in this budget execution, you have exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82180	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I would still remind you, although you know this well that we have brought budget rebalance for 2013 at the end of 2013, so at the end of the current year on the same day that we have brought state budget for 2014. All of us who took part in the budget, whether in local self-government, whether in the field self-government, or in the ministries, know that budget rebalancing at the end of the years, 20 days or 25 days before the completion of the fiscal year must absolutely coincide with the implementation of the budget. How is it that in 20 days, the government can make such a mistake as this government did with GDP growth, and then clearly with income and expenditure projections. I don't, I have to admit I don't get it. If we have made such a mistake, or if the Government has made so many mistakes in creating the state budget for the past year, whose report we are discussing today, then we can assume how wrong the Government has made in creating the budget for the year in which it is being implemented. So I can ask you a question when we're expected and how much budget rebalance for this year we're in? I must also, not you, and you participated in this, remind you that in the 2011 pre-election year when we concluded negotiations for Croatia's accession to full membership in the European Union in that year there was no rebalancing of the state budget, and I am saying, the situation was more complex than it was today. It seems to me in a certain way, at least to me that the government either loops or doesn't know how and how to manage public finances. There are too many proposals of various laws and projects by the government that are very quickly annulled like...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82182	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82183	I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82184	Comrade Shuker, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82185	If you remember the government's argument and the government's president at the government and the minister during the budget rebalancing, then everything is said to be taken down alive, that nothing can be reduced anymore. It was 20 days before the end of the financial year, however, the revenues failed by a billion and seven hundred. And the deficit was just supposed to be as much as we claimed it would be between 18.5 billion and 20 billion. And then all of a sudden, the payments stopped, and so the spending side of the billion and six million were reduced. And the result is the first four months of this year, reduced revenues by 4 billion kuna and increased expenditures by nearly less than 3 billion kuna. So that's the consequence, and now we're discussing something that's happened. However, I repeat, the problem is far from what will happen in 2014 and what is the biggest problem since we have already been through half of 2014, we have a far bigger problem which will be with public finances in 2015. Because if 2014, and we see that the tourist season has gone quite badly, it means not only will there be problems in the state budget but there will also be problems in the financial plan of Croatian roads and Croatian highways. Then the question arises what start we will start with in 2015, if we do not want to see the real situation now and if we do not set real fiscal projections for the development of the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82186	Thank you. Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82187	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you said in your debate that we are fighting too politically here. And I agree with you and that we should talk more about facts, I agree, too. So I'll tell the facts, so no fighting, but facts. You said you didn't understand, or that the problem is that this government boasts about a fiscalisation project that was meant to result besides other and higher VAT revenue in the budget, and we have less than VAT in the budget than in the previous year, than in 2012. Fiscalization is a good project and it has given all its good effects in that segment as well. And fiscalization has given its share and its pain to increase VAT revenues, but what you know, you probably know, but you won't tell because it doesn't work out for you, why there's a fall in VAT revenue. The main reason is because of the entry into the European Union. Therefore, due to the shift of a different way of calculating VAT, it was previously paid when something was imported within 8, 10, 15 days, the entrepreneur paid for it and sat in the state budget. Now there has been a shift of months and more days, and one month has run out of income from that imports, without VAT from that imports, which is somewhere around 1.6 billion kuna, so there is a time shift of these 1.6 billion missing. As a result, the VAT revenue is lower and therefore the VAT was realised at 400 million less than the previous year. Had it not been for this as a consequence of EU entry, income would still have been collected from VAT in a way that imports would pay immediately and would have been up 3% rather than 1%. That's why VAT revenues are lower. And what the fiscalisation project, he gave his results and it was a good project that introduced order, introduced justice, proved that although they pay taxes to increase the number of employees to increase their profits. And look at the absurdity, they pay taxes now, and they still have bigger profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82188	Time. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82189	I have said several times today about the fiscalisation project he is not at all controversial to me, however, and you can check it in documents at the Ministry of Finance on the project for many years. However, some projects simply need to mature time so that you can implement them. And it's lucky that the institutions that are following the fiscalization project did it well and that's it. But that the effect of fiscalization due to certain legal changes doesn't feel like the fact. Because if we claim that we've picked up 8 billion kuna more, that more traffic has been reported, so just count on 8 billion out of 25%, that's 2 billion kuna. But fellow Jelusic, there is, fortunately, recorded our sessions, when there was an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, and when the budget rebalance went, we warned that the withdrawal of value added tax would reduce the revenues of the state budget somewhere between a billion and 600 and 2 billion, so no one slows it down. But look exactly at the function and the difficult situation of the government is that they have to convey it and they have to write it unlike anyone else in this country who can say it, but their speeches and their projections don't change anything, but the government had to accept it. But let's take a look at what anyone was saying at the time, making sure that it wasn't going to be an effect of 700, 800 million kuna, and we predicted it well. So I'm not taking it as a relief for the simple reason that we've then well-intentionedly based on some experience and some knowledge, and we've warned that something's going to happen. But I repeat, the problem of this situation is not the Ministry of Finance, but users who neither the Fiscal Responsibility Act nor all of this has forced them to implement reforms. And this next hoax of HZZO separation from the Treasury, please read the Expenses Act, read the Health Act, and you will see that you will have to secure in the state budget 5 billion kuna to cover everything they need to be covered. And I don't know where we're gonna get that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82190	A fellow Shuker. Nadica Jelish, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82191	You told your colleague Shuker in your debate that this government is a problem with the revenue side of the budget, hence the lack of income and that it wants to be patched up with some new taxes. Here I was trying to quote you. It's not a revenue side problem for this government, at least it's not in the sense that the income side would be beyond control. So this government calculated with reduced revenues in the government's register because its primary goal was just to discharging the economy, so giving space to the economy to get a breath to recuperate to say so and to start doing business normally. Or we knew quite specifically that the revenues of the state budget would also be reduced because of the non-taxation of the reinvested profits and because of the reduction of contributions to health insurance and the reduction of parafiscal burdens, etc. But we've achieved the effects. So already in 2013 we have an increased capitalisation of companies, they are therefore more financially stable and we have a growth in profits in 2013 compared to 2012. So how? the real sector will recover in the perspective, thus generating higher revenues in the state budget, where the circle closes but at a qualitatively much higher level than previously or previously. [[Intruder: Time.]] So we know that the fiscal capacity of each budget is directly dependent on the strength of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82192	Thank you. You can't see the time on the screen. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, we are talking here about the implementation of the 2013 budget when I said that the problem of the revenue side wanted to be solved with new taxes, is the basis of only the law that was passed in that year. So we can't say if we cut the health contribution by 2% points or 8.8 9% if we cut it down and then after a year and a half we return it to it that we did something good because if you go into such a change then let it go. The same story was differentiated by the rate not in tourism but in hospitality, tourism received a differentiated rate eight years ago. But when you add up that health care rate and the differentiated rate, it's more than 4 billion kuna of state budget revenue, and when you add a 5% rate for certain items that were previously released outside of it, that's an additional billion 800, that's 6 billion kuna for you. And if nothing had touched the revenue side, it would have been richer by six billion kunas. And that's why I spoke to the former minister, and now, he had one round plan, but the key tax was not passed, and that means that whoever bears political responsibility must bear political responsibility because if he accepted these changes then he must accept this change because that change has patched up all these changes ahead and these are facts. And if you're not able to talk about it openly, then why should we be pushed to say it out of opposition? But that's a fact, it was a big package that was about anywhere near 6.7 billion kuna on the downturn so on increasing certain expenditures and it's not a small game for the state budget. And you, if you don't do it, then you get these kind of interventions that happen because look, there's been before the requirement to go differentiated with the rate of hospitality. No one wanted to agree to that either. And what happened to us? We had a different rate of fiscalization in the catering industry, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82194	Thank you. My colleague, have you given up the debate or not? You haven't been reported for questioning? No, well, thank you. We're having a bit of a technical problem. Next up for a debate, Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, Mr. Chief State Auditors with Associates. So during the morning, in several replicas, I expressed my view of the inability to accept such a report on the implementation of the national budget for 2013. And because of the criteria, but on the other hand, and because it is unacceptable that the State budget report for the fiscal year for which the report is submitted in the fact that the rebalancing of the state budget is adopted at the end of the fiscal year can so much depart. And that the government at the end of the fiscal year assures us that the growth of the economy in that year will be 0.2% and already quite clearly already and the government is aware that economic activity will fall, the GDP's revenue from the state budget cannot be as projected in the document adopted by the Croatian Parliament. So on this side, I do not see what reason the government has in this way projected the state budget and proposed it to the Croatian Parliament. The fact is that in the past year and the year before that, important reforms in Croatian society have remained that the Government did not propose such a reform to the Croatian Parliament and that there could be no reduction in the expenditure of the state budget and then a clear reduction in the deficit of the state budget. What it marked last year are the activities of the Ministry of Finance in the section relating to activities in the implementation of the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement. I was in the replica of the Vice-President of the Parliament this morning when it was on behalf of the Club that information on the results of the implementation of the Financial Business Law and the pre-departure settlement said that it would be correct for the Government to report from time to time to the Government's officials on the effects of the implementation of the Act on Pre-departure Agreement that the Ministry of Finance would meet the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public on the number of debtors who passed the procedure of this law on the one hand. And on the other hand, about the height he writes down to certain debtors, which means for all those believers who have lost a significant part of their claim in these proceedings, etc., etc. She told me that all of this was available on the website of the FINA, so I called FINA during the morning to see if there could be such a suspicious review of the effects of the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement. And I'm told there's no such suspicious review, that you can get to the data you need to know the OIB of a particular legal person and then go through the OIB to get into the system and find out how many and how many write-offs were made, how many have been written off and from whom. It is therefore not possible for us representatives and Croatian citizens to have a dutiful review and impact of the Law on fiscal responsibility and pre-profit settlement. So I call upon the government to give a transparent report to see if the effects of this law are what the rulings convince us or not. I think that would be very important to find out. What I would like to point out in my debate is, first of all, that part of the real sector relating to the construction sector and the construction operation. In the past 5, 6 years, especially in the past 2 years, there has been a significant reduction in activity in the construction sector and not to say that the entire construction sector is on its knees. According to data provided by the National Statistics Institute in 2012 13.2% less approvals were issued for construction and... a in 2012 compared to 2011 13.2%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are, in itself, enough to say how much less activity there is, jobs in the construction sector, which means that there is really no business in the construction sector and that there are many construction companies closing down. For this reason, I expected the Ministry of Construction to launch certain projects to encourage the construction sector but as we know, the government first proposed to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian law adopted, so the implementation of the Law on subsidisation of housing loans and state guarantees was suspended. Then we were witnesses that the government also reduced the incentives for housing savings first and then abolished them, which further clearly demoted any reflection on new housing construction in the Republic of Croatia. The government then announced a modified POS+ model that did not even get close to the expectations announced by the government by the adoption of the project. Not to say that, first of all, the government started a project to rebuild the facade of public buildings that had experienced a complete debacle and now here the government has finally made a new proposal for a programme of energy reconstruction and public buildings in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, all these projects, which were pompously announced and which should have contributed to the opening of new investments primarily to the construction sector and then clearly to their cooperatives, did not really happen. I must admit that it is not clear to me why the Government, when we have not already witnessed that reforms have been carried out in the public sector, in health care and in other segments of Croatian society, why has the Government stopped investment in the public sector? In its own time, investment tsunamis were announced in the Republic of Croatia, which was needed and meant to be investments either in the private sector or on the other hand in the energy sector and again in the public sector. But that tsunami didn't happen either. You know that the government has already announced the construction of Omble, then Plomina etc., etc., that all these investments that have been announced have been stopped, or have not happened, are not even open. On the other hand, the open investments that could continue, which could have been kept on their feet, have also been stopped. The justification that all these investments took place through the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, primarily in road infrastructure, highway construction or construction, for example, of the Peljega Bridge, has been stopped, but no substitute has been found, no new investment has been opened that could be important to the substituting of the construction sector which would then launch a clearly complete construction operation. I can ask Mr. Minister a question, given that the implementation of the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings is under way and that a very large number of requests for legalisation of buildings in the Republic of Croatia, that it is already largely resolved and it seems to me somewhere more than 30% of all these requirements, and if we know that around 800,000 requests have been filed in the Republic of Croatia, it means that somewhere around 250 000 requests should have been settled and then the fees for the legalisation of these facilities are calculated. It would be very interesting because I do not see here in this report on the implementation of the state budget, how much is the basis of the solutions issued and the legal fees established for the legalisation of illegally built buildings, how much the state budget has come under the implementation of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, and whether 50% of that compensation belonging to the Republic of Croatia is indeed invested and spent transparently and purposely, as the law provides. Unfortunately, not a word in this report on the one hand, nor can we find out from the Ministry of Construction how much of these funds have been received, or how much and in what way these funds have been available. So to get back to the beginning when I was saying that it was incomprehensible to me, which is why at the end of the year the government proposed this budget, i.e. the rebalance of the 2013 budget that has not been achieved, seems to me to be somehow on the trail of one tampering or wandering of the government in that entire sector and in the economy and in the area of reform. So we're witnessing that the government has first announced outsourcing these days for those activities that are not basic activities in certain ministries, so that later on, it will turn one new model that's called spin off. Furthermore, the government announced a property tax and then gave up the tax. We said that the first rate was announced and a reduction in the rate of contribution to health insurance from 15% to 13%, was later returned. The same fate was with a reduction in VAT rates in tourism, etc., etc. Similarly, we already commented this morning, there was a purchase of the HANDA stock, with around 650 million kuna income coming from the state budget through the CERP's debt, etc., etc. So, a series of measures that the Government withdraws when it comes to financial and economic policy in my opinion remain test balloons that are not completed until the end, are not completed and are actually the same fate as the fate of the entire budget of the Republic of Croatia in which I say at the end of one fiscal year we are making a budget that cannot be implemented. For this reason, I certainly cannot accept this budget report for 2013 and I fear that a similar fate will be with the budget for the year in which we are currently in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82196	Thank you. We have two replicas. Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Bačić, you mentioned a building or a stop to investment. Well, I have to remind you of the Peles Bridge, it was actually an account without a tavern. You know how many times there have been actually openings and stone foundations, that we will be able to make in Dubrovnik-Neretva County a foundation stone museum for that bridge. And I'll also remind you that 170 million kunas have been spent to end the contract. It's big money, and what are the effects? None. The Croatian roads paid for 246 million kuna, only 71 million kuna was realised on the site. According to what will we discuss, what responsibility will we discuss? When we talk about this government's responsibility, I'm just going to list it: a reduction from 15% to 13%, that's about 2 billion kuna, a 0% profit tax if it's reinvested, we mentioned how much profit it was before. The reduction of VAT from 25% to 10% for hospitality and tourism, which is a direct boost to the strongest industrial branch in the Republic of Croatia. Then increase the threshold for entering the VAT system from 85 000 kuna to 230 000 kuna. The introduction of a payment order which reduces unfair competition. It's HBOR's capitalization. See when the HBOR was most recapitalized. Then the reduction in the burden on the economy, the contributions decreased by 2%, water charges, forest charges and monumental rents burdened by economic operators. So let's compare how we treated ourselves, or how responsible we were to this government, and how there was only an example of the Pelje Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82198	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82199	Dear colleagues, in the past 2.5 years, this government has not yet been clear whether the Pelješki bridge is indeed the best project to link and traffic isolated Dubrovnik-Neretva County, to get out of traffic isolation. I must remind you that an agreement with the neighbouring country of BiH in 2006, followed by the then government's decision to give a location permit, an environmental impact study, a study of economic justification, a building permit, a concession on maritime goods, work on access roads, call a tender, choose a contractor, start works. And the works are really there to begin with. Of the 2 billion values of the Pelješko Bridge investment, 15% of the value was spent. So 300 million kunas are invested in building the Pelje Bridge. If you and your party and this government truly believe that the Pelješki bridge, as confirmed by the European Commission, is the best way of transporting the Republic of Croatia, then you should not have interrupted the contract with the performers, you should not have paid the pens to the performers and thus burden Croatian roads, but simply continued to build the Pelješko bridge, continue to build the Pelješko bridge. Because I, according to the current projections of this government, and also according to the EU budget projections, do not see when and how the European Commission will help to build the Pelješko bridge, and until then Dubrovnik-Neretva County will continue to be traffic-insulated and you will see for yourself what will happen in the area of the Neum corridor this summer when a new regime of cargo passage through Neum is introduced which is heading towards Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is precisely at that border crossing point. All of this could continue with the construction of the Pelje Bridge. I know the situation is difficult, the funds are gone. But that bridge is part of the traffic sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and it should be completed. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82200	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82201	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, can you imagine what the State Budget Implementation Report will look like next year at the position of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Why do I ask you that? So for reasons that the total amount of funds is very similar to this year, and we adopted in this House 12 days ago a law in which the explicit means of legalization will be used to rebuild housing in flooded areas. Well, when you have a budget like this that says, among other things, that says the Agency for Legal Traffic and Mediation goes 237 million out of 594, and the State Geodetic Administration 194 out of 294. That means 450 million has already been spent and you're left with 100 and a few more million to function at the Department of Construction. And then how will the Minister of Finance implement this legal provision? Not at all. And then next year, we're going to hit the Minister of Finance again, why is that, why is that, and we didn't have enough courage when we passed the law that we were all for, because we just want to help those people who got hurt in the floods, but let's pass a law that's applicable. Because the legalization money in the state budget doesn't say it's legalization money. This is the income of the sum of the state budget and is spent as much as anything else, and the Ministry of Civil Engineering has received so much money and not at any position of the Ministry of Construction, nor in the Law on Legalisation that these are strictly dedicated funds can be used for that too. That's all I'm saying is how hard it is to listen to a report on budgeting for some things when someone passes some laws that are unfortunately inadmissible and ineligible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82202	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82203	That's right, fellow Shuker. When we passed the law 15 days ago, we warned that he was breaking existing laws, but he assured us that the law that comes and posters changes the law that was passed before him. I am then and now, too, and I would also like to stress that the legalisation funds under the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings are intended and 50% of them belong to local units, or 20% of the unit of the district self-government for the cost of the work of its administrative departments. 30% belong to local self-government units for the recovery of space and the adoption of spatial plans, and 50% of the income of the state budget is again intended for the establishment of a new real estate catalogue for the digitisation of the cadastrian apparatus, etc. etc. It is also unclear to me how the Minister of Finance and how the Minister of Construction will function and implement this new law to help flooded areas in the Republic of Croatia. As good as it may be, I do not see how the law is broken, especially the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, how it will be able to fully implement this law more than here I would like the Minister to give us here during the session to introduce us to the effects of the Law on Legalisation in a way that tells us how much it is in 2013, and I say that by then more than 20% of the legalisation requirements were settled, so we will immediately know how much this new law would help flooded areas in this year can achieve the legalisation of illegally built buildings in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82204	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chief State Auditor. So here is the report, in particular the audit report, that actually shows how right we were when we asked that the discussion of the report on the implementation of the state budget, at the same time, has insight into the findings of the audit, the finding of the audit that, of course, does not go into the details of the use of budgetary users. It's just coming up. We're just going to see this, but it's actually just looking to see if it's properly booked and whether laws were actually implemented at the level of the state budget. And when we look at it, it's actually a defeat to the government. This report is devastating for the government, and it is fortunate that the media that have mentioned this debate very superficially to the ruling bountifully, and obviously it will not be discussed in detail in public, because the consequences would actually be frightening for the government. When sentences such as those that claim justly, of course, are read, there has been excessive borrowing, that guarantees are excessive, therefore greater than those prescribed by law. It's not just a matter of breaking the law that's obvious, it's a question at the end of the day, and it's a non-fulfilment of promises. Of course, no one believes those promises anymore. But let's also remember in Program 21 and pre-election the Kukuriku coalition promised less responsibility. It is now white that these duties are enormous, that they are far greater. When we read sentences such as in the main book of the state budget and financial statements for 2013 there are no data on state property. The requirements for the revenues of the state budget relating to taxes, contributions and other public contributions are not reflected in the financial reports of the competent budgetary users. Implementing regulations concerning the methodology of investment projects have not been adopted. The new financial guarantees in 2013 are given in an amount larger than those prescribed by the provisions of the law, so it is illegal to make it very clear. In addition to the requirements for issuing guarantees, complete documentation is not included. The budget funds were partly used to finance non-emergency expenditure, i.e. which were predictable and could be planned. So that's defeating for the government. A very clear violation of the law. I repeat, not some recommendation, not some sort of thing that's arbitrary. But let's see how last year was actually planned. The realisation of the revenues of the state budget, which turned out to be of course less than planned, is based on completely unrealistic projections, is also everything. In fact, the budget was based on the growth of economic activity of 1.8% of GDP. That's when we used to say it was unrealistic. That's when all the objective experts said it was unrealistic. This completely unreasonable optimism that I would not use some more difficult word that the rulings had and voted most of the way, of course, that proved to be another failure. And then, with changes and additions to the state budget, it fell back to an unreal 0.7% when it was known and then that it was unrealistic and that it was more than can be expected. And then, of course, with another rebalancing, it went down to 0.2%. What are we talking about here? So we're talking about just one bad plan, or glare in front of reality. We can, of course, vote with most hands every time, whatever numbers we want. Well, it could have been voted a 5% tax, but it's not real. We all knew, and those who suggested it was unrealistic and those who obediently raised their hands that it was unrealistic. We pointed to it but of course it was not to be heard, it was much nicer to vote and give a few days of optimistic announcements in the paper, big headlines. And as we're done seeing, I'm now white-headed on the basis of objective data from the review report. The fact that 31 changes in the Croatian tax system have been made in a year is also devastating for the government. 31 changes! So how can this affect economic activity, how can it affect the investment climate? So that any investor who wants to invest is looking at that data, only that fact that 31 times some change has been made in the Republic of Croatia's tax system, so that's all it takes to get him to run away with his head no matter what. When we look at this report to me, it's like someone who's not an economist is a startling thing, which is that there's actually no analysis of the financial situation in that period. You don't actually have some kind of analysis and explanation of the cause of the condition and effect which is why it all came together. What's the reason for that? It's really hard to figure that out. One piece of information that I have to admit in particular was interesting, and astonishing, is that the Law on the implementation of the state budget stipulates that the sovereign debt could amount to 60% of the total GDP. So that's the law and it's a legal provision. And then the report simply puts it so elegantly, but that amount is 65% of GDP. At the same time, we have a law on the implementation of the state budget for this year, which says the sovereign debt cannot exceed 62%. So this year we've already made it through 60% of our debt. So does anyone read those numbers? Whether we are interested in any of us at all, and not to mention the public who should be very interested in these figures and how to understand the fatal implications of these figures. My colleague Shuker was talking about the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Well, we obviously don't need that law if we're thinking of knowingly breaking the laws and it doesn't have any consequences for anyone. And this really is proof of that. There's been a mention of fiscalization, and I think it's important to say once again that no one here thinks that fiscalization itself is something bad. Well, of course it's not a bad thing and, of course, the introduction of order can't be a bad thing in itself. However, what is the fact is that this has not contributed significantly to the revenues of the state budget. So if the effect of fiscalisation towards the tax administration is increased traffic between 8, 9 or 10 billion, I should say again very clearly, because it mainly referred to natural persons, then it would be logical for the income tax to increase that amount. Since this refers to value added tax in the catering activities that should be seen in particular and when it is seen that in many cases it was actually negative because the pretax of 25% was higher than the 10% tax obligation to pay for catering services. It's actually also part of an explanation of the problem here. Why wasn't the effect actually greater? But that should be equally clear and publicly said not to try to, not to try to hide with someone to say so to the flossulas. One of the important elements is subsidies. Subsidies that were also talked about. Here's an example just, 870 million kunas intended for subsidies for the development of rail transport, first because it's really that number or it's a billion kuna. And what was previously financed from the state budget and depicted as the cost of the state budget has now actually been transferred to the position of the guarantee. When next year and perhaps this one, and probably next year, HH will no longer be able to repay those guarantees and start to collect, then it will increase the deficit of the state budget. It's very clear, and it's clear to all of us today that we can only pretend that we don't understand it, but it's a fact. But let me say a few words at the end about health care because even though there's been a lot of talk about it, and about that famous call, it's famous to call the health care recovery, then I think there's also a clear thing to say. In the healthcare sector, regardless of the outcome of the budget, or does not come out of the budget, there is a commitment to the budget by a series of different laws of payment of certain funds. And my colleague Shuker thinks it'll be more pronounced if he comes out. I personally don't think so, because even today that budget gives all that money to health care wouldn't be a problem with financing health care at all, but it doesn't. When the budget runs out of HZZO, maybe things will just get sharpened, maybe focus will get sharpened, and then they'll have to pay for it. But it should still be paid today if the laws are respected. We see, of course, from the review report, that unfortunately, a series of laws are not respected, so these laws that clearly state that health care should also be obtained through the order of Article 63. Health care laws and a series of other articles of the law and other laws, totalling some 5 billion kuna. However, it does not win and it is one of the key problems of the health system today. Simply so, of course, with the fact that no single structural reform has been implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82206	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the respected Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82207	Thank you. So here's counterpart Reiner, and your debate shows why so many doctors are in politics, because we understand ourselves in the economy, and economists don't understand anything in medicine at least to a certain extent. So, when it comes to unrealistic projections of GDP growth that occur in each budget, these 1.8, 1.6, and slowly fall, they have now reached 0.2 and, of course, we know that in the end this GDP will record a minus in this year, there will be no 0.2, even though it was +0.2 or -0.2 it's just a practical matter of psychology. We are not making economic growth but an economic downturn, but it will again be in decline this year, and I am almost certain that by the end of this government's mandate, that GDP will remain falling. So, even though they hold out until the end of next year, they're going to be down, they're going to be recorded and actually as a government that's all over its mandate, and if the entire four-year record is recorded with a GDP drop throughout its four-year period. And at a time when there is no recession in Europe or in the euro zone. So this is not the time or global recession, or recession of the euro zone, or recession of the Southeast region, or recession of Europe outside the euro, not this is the period of recession only in Croatia. This is what I should stress, we are now not the victim of a global recession, we are the victim of the inability of our own government to solve economic problems in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82208	The replica matches Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82209	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Djurovic, I actually agree with you, of course, because what you said was in some way working out what I said. But if it wasn't just an assessment of us, let's face it, it's not just us as opposition deputies, so everyone knows it. So here, yesterday, the day before yesterday was finally transferred to the press what was written by financial times, which certainly did not read the opposition of Croatia, but rather a rather objective note and competently which actually declared our economy as the most dysfunctional economy in the European Union, even worse than Greece. It's probably not quite like that in all dimensions, but they clearly detected it, clearly said, that it was the result of the government's actions. They didn't look back on the past, they weren't trying to escape by not acting or misacting this government with stories about what happened 3 years ago, 5 years ago, etc. They wrote it clearly. And it seems to me that sometimes we listen more to someone from abroad pointing fingers at some of our failures than we want to listen to each other when we sit here and point to the same kind of gaps very clearly and reasoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82210	Thank you. Another replica respected Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you were talking about fiscalization, you asked yourself what the state budget's contribution to the state budget is, or how it works on the state budget, so we can safely conclude that until the fiscalisation was introduced that because of the country's irregularities, we could say state finances, that the state's budget was left for VAT revenues made by the caterers, and then remained deprived of income tax, tax, tax, contribution, workers were also denied for more salaries and apparently for other early relations rights. And on the other hand, the work on black was booming. So thanks to precisely the fiscalization introduced by this government for the first time we have insight into the right business of the caterer and we have to give here a few more information that the number of caterers increased during the first year of fiscalization to 18%, the total number of employees in cafes increased by almost 4,100 people. Last year 2013, coffee shops increased 68%, their number of employees increased 32% and their average net earnings increased by 8%. During 2013, the trend of long-term losses and the business year managed to end with a capital contribution of as much as 27%. Thus, despite the recession, restaurants achieved an average growth in revenues of 48% in 2013. Of course, I'll mention it again, and employment has increased by 19%, and the average net pays 6%. Here's another final, when you look at the average profit per restaurant is 90 thousand kuna. So I'm only talking about this area by introducing a fiscalization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82212	Thank you. The replica matches the Vice President of the House, the Honorable Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, you've read all those numbers well, but they don't deny at all what I said. I said fiscalization was a good thing, introducing order was a good thing, but unfortunately she didn't by the state budget have any effect, I said it. And you've been wonderfully reading a series of data your colleagues supplied you with but you haven't denied what I said if you can't deny it because it's true. Unfortunately, she did not get the far-fetched effect she should have because of all the circumstances I was talking about earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82214	A new replica of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82215	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Reiner would continue in this tone. Namely, I've been offered your statement, and you agree with the fiscalization, but they claim that nothing helped in the state budget. It's not true if you can see on the Ministry of Finance's pages where the data is exposed how much an increase in all taxable deliveries is in billions of kunas. Thus, in trade at a small amount of 5.2 billion kuna it is therefore 14% higher than in the past 2012. in the provision of accommodation and preparation and services of food and drink is an increase of 40% and 2.6 billion kuna, respectively, more than in 2012. These data can be obtained but what is more important is what is already said here fiscalisation other than this effect is causing other effects, and this is primarily an equal market struggle, leaving the gray zone and ultimately increasing capitalisation and access to credit to those entrepreneurs that they later saw. You can ask them today saying that their business is much better despite their paying more obligations to the state, which is ultimately order. As for the railway guarantees, it should not be surprised, so Croatian roads, Croatian highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb now comes to them for the collection of their debt is actually about 30 billion kuna. Of course, these were certain guarantees of the state. It's not a guarantee problem, it's not a deficit problem if he's going into development, that's what's the key message and that's not the way to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82216	The replica matches the Vice President of the House, the Honorable Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82217	So listening to the numbers that you've read well again, you've been talking about empty billions, so if they really let billions of people go through fiscalization, then probably there wouldn't be any of these problems at all, we wouldn't have anything to talk about here. However, they did not enter the state budget or their effect was annulled with a whole series of other things that I was talking about. That's all I was talking about. So it's not at all question whether fiscalization is, whether or not it's just a question of whether it's what we're trying to achieve, whether everything we're supposed to do is done that fiscalization has the effects that were intended to achieve with it? The answer is clear, not and that tells you the figures in this report that clearly show it, just need to be able to read them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82218	The last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Reiner if someone now said that 30.6. Croatian health care owes so much and so much money and that it takes so much and so much money to function in such conditions, then a lot of things wouldn't be controversial. However, in some better times, health ministers may have had a greater impact, as has been happening today, politically and with the president of the party and with the Prime Minister of Finance, so they pushed a variety of things that were difficult to implement and unprovoked in 2008 which was already good and that I am not saying today Croatia simply has no room to give up 4 billion tax revenues, there is simply no such money. That's a fact. 30% of your excise duty is a billion and 200. Billion and 200 are contributions for pensioners paid by pensioners and Article 63 for all health insurance, health insurance paid by the state and that is about 2.5.3 billion kuna. And all of that together when you add it up to you is more than 5.5 billion kunas that the state in the budget will need to give to HZZO. And probably the current health minister didn't exactly say that to the Prime Minister in this way. And if the finance minister agrees, then he can pack his bags immediately and leave Katancic's because he can't settle it. If this leads to a reduction in the health contribution on behalf of what is paid from the state budget, then it is the second pair of shoes. But going into some kind of change without anyone telling you that at this point health care owes so much and so much money is funny. And as for fiscalization, only on coffee reduction at a 10% rate did the average lose 1 kuna. Count on how much you drink daily coffee in Croatia so multiply it by 365 or on average on one beer you lose almost 2 kunas with a differentiated rate. Did she need a differentiated rate for hospitality? I'm saying she didn't. One sentence please, because tourism in Croatia has a differentiated rate with... [[Intruder: Time.]] Since 2005, 2006 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82220	The replica matches Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I, of course, agree with this other part entirely with you. As far as the first part is concerned, it's funny to talk about it to me right now because it's also a commitment to the budget just because the budget doesn't give that money to health care. But the fact is that this obligation exists, we are representatives in the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the government that has thus proposed such laws voted here. Whether we were aware of the conjecture of it or not is another story, but the fact is that it is, that it is determined by law. Therefore, when we voted on the Taxation Act on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, we all voted very happily. We said, here comes some smokers who poison themselves and others let that money go to treat smokers. We didn't say no then, let it go for the railroad, or let it go I don't know about anything else, but we said let's go patch up the holes in the budget we made. We said let it go to health care. So, of course, we can change that, but it is now an obligation, though delayed but the obligation of the budget. Of course she'll get sharper if HZO comes out of the budget. However, when we talk about health care, we must be aware of a whole series of facts. Health institutions had a decrease in revenue by almost 13% due to budget cuts for this purpose. These are big money and the fact is that a serious problem exists in the financing of hospital institutions that was created and that when there was no money in HZZO then HZZO simply reduced the price of services because it is, in principle, a monopoliest. The monopolies say I will pay so much and so much, often these prices are completely unrealistic, even below the material assets used for a search or procedure etc.. However, this is due to the same good part of borrowing health institutions. And now, at this time of health care, last year they increased their liabilities by about 1.3 billion kuna, only last year. We all have to face it and say what kind of health we all really want, whether it's the kind of health care we have right now, whether we want to have worse health care, but then this policy has to be made clear and said that there's not so much money for health care, or we're going to have even better health care, and then we have to give more money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82222	We continue with an individual debate in order to honor the Djuro Popioč, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the whole day we've actually been listening to analyses and discussions about very concrete remarks especially from our line, from our benches about the figures themselves, about what they're saying for 2013 and what's supposed to be based on everything that's been done and what's unfortunately going to happen in 2014 and even worse 2015. We had the opportunity not to repeat it all together in the very introduction of Mr. Minister when he spoke about this document, he spoke in general and much more about what the Government and specifically the Ministry of Finance did for the Croatian economy. And unfortunately, we must conclude that everything we witness today in the Croatian economy has received mainly the counter effects of the negative effect and continues to deepen the crisis and the collapse of the Croatian economy. However, it would be worth knowing on the basis of which both the minister and the entire government base views that they did something useful to the Croatian economy since we receive messages, information, opinions, interpretations, relevant analyses of what the government is doing or what it has done. Here are a few days back, we have seen strong messages regarding the issue of outsourcing, or here is some new government decision and giving up this project spin off, which is the government's very message of how much it actually trusts the Croatian economy and how it potentials or how it contributes to the general climate, the positive climate, under the quotes of the negative climate precisely towards that Croatian economy. Today we have seen the latest business sector statement on what he thinks about the Labour Act, which is a surprise to me because six months ago they unreservedly supported the proposed Labour Law, today they speak of it as a disaster and they will not support the Labour Act that the Government sent to the Parliament. So besides the union and now employers are saying what they think of the government's proposed reform procedures. However, what is relevant in addition to these statements is the relevant fact or quality analysis which he sent back several months of the business sector to the government, speaks and speak of the results of a particular system which the business sector has made, the measurement system, the effect of the government's actions and the results of the reforms, i.e. the achievement of the objectives. So we have and agree with that, one review of 13 key areas where certain government actions can be assessed according to certain key segments of the business conditions of the Croatian economy, which are productivity and competitiveness, fiscal consolidation, public administration, burden on the economy, investment and business barriers, the judiciary, labour markets, efficiency of public enterprises, business climate, promotion of investment, etc. There are 13 of them, so all the key parameters and elements that exactly contain fundamental issues of ability or inability to run from this vicious circle. In 2013, for example, the business sector estimates that 11 out of 12 areas can be found to be critical. The worst in segments of productivity and competitiveness, entrepreneurship, justice, fiscal consolidation, labour market and investment. So when you talk about what you've done to the Croatian economy, why don't you listen to them, why don't you find out that you've made a lot of mistakes and that the results, or the consequences of everything that you've done, are disastrous, which are measured and which are measurable and which is exactly what this business sector is talking about, and unfortunately the state of budget and in 2013 and what's going on in 2014 is deeply denying you, i.e. how much business sector is during these assessments and assessments right. So let's say from grade 1 to 100, as assessed by the entrepreneurship climate in 2013, nothing better is, unfortunately, not even 2014. I would like to say that all the grades in these 13 weights are worse for 2013 than unfortunately for 2011 which, I may agree, were not brighter. But something to do to make it even worse, it's a disaster, and that's exactly what happened up there. So you are told that the entrepreneurial climate in Croatia has therefore scores from 1 to 100, 15. It's completely red, so it's a disaster, and it's not going to be a disaster. Since the very beginning of this government's work, the business sector has been confronted with new burdens and legal uncertainty and everything that characterizes the government's attitudes towards the entrepreneurial sector, and we've been listening to it all day by a criminal, one who doesn't want to pay taxes, who hunts in a dim way. And these are messages we've been listening to every day since this government for three years. The sector of the entrepreneurial climate is experiencing the darkest days practically of independence, and these are unfortunately the consequences we see daily. Fiscal consolidation. How you're going to believe a state that, as assessed by the corporate sector, so you often judge businessmen, don't understand your measures, don't use what you've done to them, they're bad, they don't know how to be better. They say that from 1 to 100 degrees fiscal consolidation is 22 and is worse than it was in 2011. These are concrete, measurable and comparable results compared to several countries, but not the best ones, but the ones we can measure with. The economic burden reduction sector. You're talking about what you've unloaded and what you've done over the past two years, we've been talking about 2013. On the contrary, it is estimated to be worse than in 2011 when you inherited and took over power. So you have to believe that, you have to listen to it, not because you're comparing yourself with anything or anyone but to realize that many of the things you're doing, you're doing wrong, and then these are the consequences of the budget, the consequences of the number of unemployed that we believe, of course, it's a big number and it's even increased by 70-80 grand and we see that there's no movement. There is no shift in the investment sector either, we are talking about this, we hear about this every day what a catastrophic situation it is in terms of attracting investment, investment figures in Croatia, and this is worse than the previous very difficult and recession years. So all that is measurable in the system that determines is the entrepreneurial environment, and with which we have to agree is the only one that can definitely bring about the effects of the budget itself, and, of course, more importantly, by the standard of people to create new jobs and improve the general conditions of life in Croatia. If they speak, and you say the whole time the opposite of doing the basics wrong, then every responsible and honest government should wonder if something in those two and a half years really did seem to be the result of this budget, that the businessmen would think about it. It doesn't matter at the end of what the opposition thinks, but you're talking about entrepreneurship too, so let me say I'm sorry, but a lot of things you've done wrong, and that's why we're getting worse and worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82224	Thank you. It's time for a respected colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82225	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected ministers with associates, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot about it today, about this report. In conclusion, they determined how much revenue this year is less than last year, how much expenditure is higher, how much foreign debt is higher. Unfortunately, the average wage was reduced and the number of registered unemployed in 2013 was higher than earlier in the year. However, what needs to be more concerned is that in the first four months of this year, numerous accounts were paid from 2013 and this report is questionable about how realistic the state budget is being implemented. Whether the deficit is only 16.2 billion kuna or significantly more. I'd like to look back on one item today, that's employee expenses. It's as if we should be proud that these expenditures are smaller, that we gave doctors and teachers and set lower wages, which has reduced their coefficient, that they've had their goddesses and regresses lifted. 'Cause you're probably gonna say lucky people are all the ones that work. In Croatia we have 16.3% unemployment rate. It's just worse and worse in Spain and Greece. In 2013, we had 370,000 unemployed. And it's really under material costs for employees we have reduced by 17% compared to the previous year, even about 3.3% lower than it was planned in 2013. But today I didn't hear anyone look back on the item below. The costs of the persons outside the working relationship shall be borne. It's probably the ones who have the contracts. They are probably the lucky ones who are employed past the competition, who are probably on some other basis in a working relationship and are already receiving some personal income. This item here for the public will not believe that it increased more than 85% than in 2012, and even almost 20% more than it planned in 2013. Here's so short on the report, and now I'd like to refer to the report on the annual report's audit. Namely, warrants and recommendations that were not followed, so it stands. In the main book of the state budget and financial statements, there are no data on state property. Then on. The new financial guarantees in 2013 are in excess of the provisions laid down in the law. Who's prescribing? Who's passing the law? Who is proposing this law? At the government's proposal, this House passed the law and then again the same government violates the law. Furthermore, there is no regulation on how to account for the State guarantee fee. Who should I prescribe? Well, I guess on the government's proposal, that is, if it's the law again, the Parliament. The appropriations were used to finance non-emergency expenditure, i.e. which were predictable and could be planned. Then why are we making a budget in the Croatian Parliament if we will then use the current reserve to provide funds beyond that law and beyond the budget. In the text we can find it says they were designated exclusively by the government's solution. If I'm not mistaken, here can be confirmed by the state's chief auditor, it's against the law. It means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has signed a solution contrary to the law and our prime minister. Right? Here's a confirmed nod. Thank you very much. So that's illegal. In these reports we can see in the provisions of the Budget Law, it is not clear how the non-execution of planned expenditure for the ongoing payments of the principal and the refinancing. I expected, after all these remarks, that the ministry would immediately propose to make urgent changes and supplement those laws and that something like this would not happen in the next report. It says guarantees to other entities are prescribed at 2 billion kuna, and today they are in the amount of $4.4 billion. According to the attached documentation for the settlement of new liabilities to those entities, guarantees are given, which is more than the prescribed amount for 135 million kuna. For three guarantees, commissions are not charged, and so now I'm not reading. The State Audit Office has given guidance exactly what it proposes to amend the laws, which should be paid attention to, and what has been done against the law. And now, in the end, he says a summary is given a conditional opinion. The audit found that the data on the implementation of the state budget were not complete, that the lack of income was not accurately demonstrated. Different accounting principles applied. The value of new financial guarantees is more than the amount prescribed by law, and again the opposite of the law has been used by budget stocks. The government raised its hand, passed the law in this House, the ruling coalition also raised hands for this law and then it broke. When a small craftsman does so, then puts the tape on the door or punishes itself and then recharges the state budget, and we probably have an increase of almost 15% on the sentence item of more than 601 million kuna, and when the ministry does nothing to anyone. I'd like to invite my ruling colleagues here because I think whether we're coming from the left or right, we should look at the same violation of the law. When it comes to the Life Partnership Act, I know we're different opinions, ideology, but when it comes to breaking the law, I think we have to do the same thing. And I therefore invite you to support the State Auditor's report and to be against this year's report on budget implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82226	Thank you. We have one replica, respected Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Branka, when you spoke about wages, I think now is a chance to remind you of how this government actually contributes to improving it by making its legal decisions, or protecting the workers. And that is, payouts were stopped without contributions, wage default became a crime, we also increased the minimum wage amount, the amount of monthly non-taxable profit was raised. The Employment Encouragement Act gives employers who are employed by persons who are registered in the unemployment records the right to free the payment of contributions for the first two years of employment of a newly employed person. And also through active employment measures almost 50,000 unemployed of our fellow citizens have gone through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82228	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82229	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sure every law enforcement deserves to be commended and so on, but I'm wondering these almost 20 million kunas that went to the expense of people outside the working relationship where they ended up? Wasn't it to pay workers their wages in that amount and keep them busy, at least some of those of the 370,000 unemployed?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82230	We're continuing an individual debate. They'll speak to the esteemed Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Honorable State Auditors with Associates. Here during the day we are all more or less familiar with the opportunities for the implementation of the State budget for 2013, I will try not to repeat certain data we have heard. But I don't think it's bad for the execution itself to repeat that GDP is actually less than 1% compared to 2012, that GDP is at current prices of 328 million kuna, which is a stagnation compared to 2012. All components on the expenditure side of GDP other than state spending and the consumption of non-profit institutions serving households recorded a real decrease in 2012. The number of unemployed was around 6.4% higher than in 2012, the number of employees was also reduced by some 30,000, the average unemployment rate was 17.1%), which is approximately 1.3% more than in 2012. The total foreign debt is 45.6 billion euros, which is 105.3% of GDP and 2.6 percentage points higher than in 2012. According to its rules, the fiscal liability law restricts actually state spending, and should strengthen responsibility for the legitimate and meaningful spending of budgetary resources and strengthen the control system to ensure fiscal accountability. The fiscal rule for 2013 is not satisfied. For what? The main reason stems from the new payment and contribution obligations of the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget and the settlement of health institutions in HZZO recovery. This report raises several questions. Since the fiscalization that we talked about today was introduced in 2013, it was clearly said that the revenues were higher by 8.9 billion kuna. The question is, where did the money go through income taxes? Why are the derogations from the revenue and expenditure of the state budget so great since the projections for 2014 and 2015 have been adopted? Is this actually a real picture of the state of state finances or the ministry as Mr. Shucker used to say today hiding certain figures we don't know about? What about VAT taxes on catering activities and pretaxes of 25% higher than 10%, how much should they actually be paid? It's not visible, and what are the actual expenditures in health care? Does anyone even know? Subsidies in rail transport of 870 million kuna are listed, but no guarantees of cca billion kuna are issued. In fact, this before in the budget was shown as the cost of the state budget, and now it is actually transferred to the position of guarantees. What happens when these guarantees come for payment? Is that a deficit increase? So the logical question is whether the budget deficit is far greater than $16.2 billion, or as Mr. Shucker has said, 18.5 billion? In this report, unfortunately, there is no analysis and everything is reduced to findings which is actually unserious for both us and the public. In particular, it should be pointed out that the 2013 Budget Law stipulates that the total government debt may be at a maximum of 60% of the total GDP in 2013. This report changes fiscal rules so that it can be met without a certain analysis and the real situation because the debt is already 65%. In 2014, it was at 62% and we broke through today. So the question is, in fact, whether we need it or not, and whether someone will deal with it, whether it's political or otherwise? Why did it actually happen that the achievement of the 2013 income was less than planned? Because I think they are based on unrealistic projections because the entire state budget was based on the growth of economic activity of 1.8% of GDP. I believe, and I believe that both colleagues here and on the other hand know very well the opportunities in the country as early as 2013, where taxes, contributions, municipal services were increased, then telecommunications prices, energy, transport and so on, so it was illogical for it to be based on economic activities of 1.8% of GDP. If we knew the causes, we could think about the most important way out of the economic crisis, and the creation of a competitive economy and the high quality of life of Croatian citizens. I think it's also the role of the central government as well as the local self-government unit. Before and above all, create a competitive and stable economic environment, but with clear and stable legal regulations of an effective state and public administration that this government has not done. In my opinion, Croatia certainly has the potential and capacity both material and human resources to be freed and launched, which are unreasonable measures by this government and rhetoric of the current government, muffled and discouraged in particular in 2013. Unfortunately, we have managed to bring fear among potential investors both domestic and foreign, and that is why we have had the results we heard today during the morning and here we are at late afternoon. We have warned of this, and we have actually talked about the need to create a stable tax system that will be based if you want, and so is our Constitution in Article 51 that the tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. If we were going in that direction today, we'd be getting results where and where better. That's why a state of fear and hopelessness was created. That's why there's no investment, and that's why they're not there, and the question is when they're coming, and from the latest reports, we're only listening in this year, they're down 60%. How then to speak in the 2013 budget of positive demographic policy, especially in the Dalmatian hinterland, Lici and Gorski Kotar, very, very difficult. What's not good, and I don't think it's good either by the minister, the season hasn't even started, that's what my colleague Juricev was talking about, and I'm gonna get over it, and the tax collectors are afraid of inspections, inspections, some kind of squares that are going to be on the Adriatic coast this year. I think that the primary role of inspection is educational, should be, and I believe I should be filling the budget better. What this year will mean in such catering facilities not only on the Adriatic but throughout Croatia, I don't think it should be said, knowing the fact that last year, for example, in the course of the season, there are closed catering facilities on ferrys that were driven to Brac and Starigrad where they were glued to tax tapes by tax inspectors as closed facilities. On the other hand, the state has little or no thought about those duties that occurred to local self-government units brought from the central government level without consulting local self-government units, so we were imposed on us certain taxes and additional duties and obligations for a small school, for mangers, for kindergartens, for the transport of students, for the transport of fire protection, fire, natural disasters, disinsectation, deratization and other things. Of course, these people don't ask what I don't think is right, but there's been a mantra about a large number of municipalities, about local sheriffs who aren't afraid of anyone, and they're actually co-creating politics in their area, and that it can't be influenced by central government, which is not true at all. In addition to the large questionnaires on the revenue side and many expenditure items open large questionnaires and issue and on concerns for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which is particularly important for us, we listened to it on the board that is about 1% of the state budget, there is a reduction of one part of the funds that I do not think is good at all, and I said especially about demographic policy. We've heard here these days that we've actually reduced that growth to about 10 grand, or 11 thousand children. That is why this implementation of the state budget warns that the government is really going in the wrong direction, as it did this year and that the damage that will leave behind will be difficult to repair. I think it's time we took a break and learned lessons from these things so that at least this year we could take the same direction and the way that Minister Lalovac was talking about, and we'd be happy to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82232	Thank you. It is up to Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, we've been here all day, and we're still halfway through the debate, we're discussing budget implementation. On the implementation of the budget, which is carried out in a way that is different from the previous years carried out in a direct way, in a way that can be directly poured into pockets or bags through intermediaries. And you see that citizens are dissatisfied, that they want faster, more, that they want it all right now, and that's what we all have an understanding for, and they're right, and we don't complain about it. But I ask you nicely, that today on this subject they are exactly as they were doing the budget as I was saying, those who left from the institutions this government of Augie's barn, when you take over, you don't know where you're going to start and what you're going to clean up, what end and where they're talking about, as if they've left organized institutions, as if they're innocent as prime ministers in that sense. It's really our duty, not to ask for excuses, but that's exactly what it obliges us to say in a few sentences and words of explanation. However, today, after 2.5 years, Croatia is unquestionably transformed into a country whose authority is responsible, rational and does not close its eyes to reality. I'd say, I've already said that, and I'm going to repeat doing what's possible in an almost impossible situation. 2.5 years later, Croatia is a country where public money is not being thrown into the bribery of different social groups and public investment as a cover for corruption operations. 2.5 years later, Croatia has a government that leads a responsible and reasonable policy in all possible objective circumstances as far as possible. Croatia has repeatedly said this by the foreign government here in the Croatian Parliament led politics beyond its means. She lived beyond her means for years. The state was expensive and often unnecessarily in debt, and irresponsible and unreasonable borrowing was not only in the time before the recession but also in the time of recession that paralysed the country for a long time. The service of inherited debt and the disorder found especially in state-owned enterprises is the biggest and most concrete weights in Croatia's efforts, the whole of Croatia of all forces to get Croatia out of its crisis as soon as possible. We found it at the end of 2011. 205,000 workers who have not been paid their salaries or paid their contributions. By regulation already at the beginning of the term of office, we made it impossible to pay the salaries without the contributions paid. It should only be noted that it was not even a crime of default, which was all said about the whole network to do just that. We also increased the minimum wage, we discovered 3 billion and 300 million kuna in health care, and we had to resuscitate this huge debt but not so that the hospital network that constantly produces losses left intact, we went into a comprehensive reform and rationalization of the health system that no government had previously dared to do. We privatised and previously took over nine billion kunas of long shipyards, ensuring the survival of almost the entire shipbuilding industry, which is no longer mentioned today, and which has not gone hand in hand to any EU member state. Addressing the shipbuilding problem will, of course, be a serious burden for the state budget for some time, but the possibility of saving nearly 10,000 jobs has just been opened. Over the past 2.5 years, we have brought a package of laws and measures to introduce order in state affairs, especially in financial operations, and to remove barriers to private investment, foreign and domestic. It's a prerequisite for any thinking about economic recovery, that's the infrastructure that wasn't and we had to do and that's what we're doing. We are determined, this is particularly stressed by the minister, to defend the achieved level of social rights of the most exposed categories of the population. At the beginning of the term of office, we abolished the right to preferential pensions for state officials, and the payment of workers' pensions is fully guaranteed and they have been for 2.5 years during the term of office of this authority in line with the increase in the cost of living and the increase in wages. Never so far in our term of office will there be no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course no one ever clapped for it because the resistances are strong, especially if you touch not right but what was never right because the old principle of thieves are impertinent and there are always the loudest when you touch them into something that they have so far had no right but abused it, and no one has prevented them from doing so. In order to facilitate the life of citizens through the latest amendments to the Tax on Profits Act, banks are allowed to write off a portion of the housing loan, and banks will be compensated for that money and is compensated for just by reducing the base for taxation. Also, all companies, especially those who charge citizens services and directors, have been able to write off the old debt to citizens for communals and directors amounting to 2 thousand kunas. With the consumer lending law we stopped at the end of the self-will of banks, no one had dared to do so until then, in a way that the average interest on loans in Swiss francs was reduced by 30%, resulting in the fall of monthly war on those people by more than 20%. Our principle commitment is this very process of necessary reforms, and that's exactly what it says about those ugly reforms that we've been dealing with and that's not popular and we've been counting on, that's what we've been willing to do, but someone who's never done it has come to you, but at the beginning of what I just said at the beginning, that's what it was saying you're not carrying out any reforms and point. And the more he puts it like that, the more he glues the label, and it stands without any embodies and no accurate data. And that's why I'm saying this because we're talking structural reforms and difficulties especially in situations like this. Of course, consolidation of public finances makes it difficult and slows down the implementation of economic recovery measures, i.e. a new rise and employment. However, these are precisely our basic economic policy definitions, primarily the introduction of order and other consolidations of state finances, and the restructuring and rationalisation of the state and public sector. These are all basic measures for recovery and new growth of the economy. It's all something that should have been done a long time ago, but it's only now. Before they were making the facade, and there was no sewers to express myself, and the roof was sneezing. And it kind of looked like that when it might have looked even until that shrub and gold fell off. The finance ministry, with its administrations and services, has come to orderly and to collect taxes and tax debts. When the government took responsibility for the state, it found 51 billion kuna in tax debt. For just a year and a half, that debt has been reduced by seven and a half billion, and most of all thanks to the reprogramming of that debt itself. So, a fiscalization project has been implemented, which here since it wants to be reduced and its effects are said to be insufficient. First of all, that's not true. Here we saw what Mr. Minister said, and so did many of my colleagues who said what that meant on the income side. But it's even in difficult times and times of crisis a minor problem. The bigger problem is doing business under the law. These are the values to be advocated. Although some have just said that. It's no financial effect, so why did it go into it at all? So you see what a way of thinking is, not to say how fair it is, how much it says about morality in the economy, the morality of business, not to talk about general, in general citizenship, let alone in the world of politics. So, fiscalization itself is about raising the supervision of cash flows that passed by the law. Total issued since the beginning of this year I'll be done now. [[/Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much. Time's up.]] 2.1 billion fiscal accounts, pre-banking deals that will become even more transparent. So all of this has led to today, no matter how dissatisfied the citizens are, but soon this hard work in such a situation will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82234	This presentation is presented by respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82235	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, if the reach of this government is the payout of pensions regularly as you say then really the government has reached its peak. But what I wanted in particular to point out and in connection with your debate is what you're talking about criminal legislation that needs to be sanctioned for non-payment of salaries and you say you did, you introduced it into legislation. And here's an example of these days we have a constructor, Split, workers, 10 months they haven't received a salary. Who was the criminal responder? And not only for the workers of the constructor and directors of the constructor, the owners, but a number of other companies. A year, two days' wages don't pay, 10 months, 6 months. Who ended up in prison for that, and you passed laws that sanction it. That's terrible! You're going to arrest him as soon as you haven't paid your salary in two months. Keep going. It's about Swiss when you talk. Well, it's only a partial solution, you've just tempered it, and there were suggestions here in the parliamentary benches from the opposition to deal with the Swiss quite differently. People got litigation some here in Vinkovci man on other grounds, not on what you're talking about. It's such a little help now you say 20% less war. Third, the rationalisation of the state sector. So do you think all these consulting companies are so-called paying off from the consulting company for the master plan of hospitals, so the consulting companies for sale are careful, for sale as if the one who sells needed a lot of sense to sell Croatia's insurance. Well, for H.P.B., then a series of other consulting companies, so we're not gonna talk about getting a car now. So, which rationalization are you talking about? [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] There's no rationalization in the state apparatus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82236	Thank you. The replica matches Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82237	So I can agree with you to completely or there are cases where they haven't been sanctioned, where there's not a sanctioned payment, but a lot of them have been sanctioned, a lot of them have gone to jail and paid. We will not enter individual cases now, but you must imagine that this institute that was planned during the first coalition government in 2003, which was abolished by the arrival of the next set in 2004, would not exist as a problem for us today. Because every institute, every institution you introduce, needs, unfortunately, a certain time to achieve its effect. So I repeat. That's what we suggested in 2003. And the fact that when we suggested it, there were 80,000 people who didn't get paid. So their salaries started to come to accounts. Equally, the payment of contributions was not a criminal offence. People retired, he didn't get paid an internship, and no one got paid for anything. But be careful, that didn't happen by accident. It was a whole network of operations to suit their own, and care for the workers was lagging behind. And now they're paying you over the fate of the workers, and we're doing everything in this situation where they've brought us to how much that level is maintained and I say and I repeat that the minimum wage has also been increased. We also passed a minimum wage bill a few years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82238	Comrade Tomislav Žagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82239	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, respected state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to touch these five points that are read from this budget or mark this document that we call budget implementation for 2014 and some of the measures that have followed these points, whether the cause of these numbers that then appear in the budget execution document itself. So, what is immediately important to stress at the outset is the first point that social benefits and transfers towards the most socially vulnerable groups have not been reduced. This should certainly include the introduction of a guaranteeed minimum social compensation institute and the establishment of a single register of all beneficiaries of social care rights in which 7,000 false recipients have been detected and suspended. Second. The peace has been paid and their coordination has been carried out. So a billion kuna is set aside for indexation, i.e. monitoring the cost of growth. 36.1 billion kuna has been paid, with 18 billion coming out of contributions, and of course the rest must be compensated. What should be mentioned here is that all pensioners who want to do so are able and regulated to work on pensions. A large number of fake pensions, disability pensions for deceased and non-existent persons have been discovered. Preferred pensions have been abolished and disease control has been initiated. Health obligations amount to 21 billion kuna. Of course, it is inevitable to mention 3 billion kunas for the recovery of health institutions, which then increases the budget deficit. The rationalisation of the hospital network, the release of HZZO from the state treasury as full use of planned healthcare funds and more rational implementation of hospital rehabilitation is planned so that the rehabilitation programmes that have been and have been financed over the last two years from the budget will no longer be necessary. Of course, the main goal is to reduce the waiting list and improve the health care of the insurance company. Incentives to retain existing jobs and create new jobs, 13% redundancies in the economy by reducing the health rate from 15% to 13%, VAT reductions for hosts from 25% to 13%, VAT threshold increases from 85,000 to 230000 kuna, VAT non-computation in imports. This is about 1.6 billion kuna to help entrepreneurship. Construction sector, protection of small businesses versus large ones. It mentions 4 to 5 billion kunas that were directly missing in small companies' accounts. 1.3 billion kunas less burden for reinvested profits. Here the minister spoke in his opening statement about that in 2001. 55% was the capitalisation of companies, 2007. 50%, and 2012. 34%. This is very important from the perspective of the realisation of bank loans and the increase in investment levels. From 171 to the end of this year, 58 parafiscal charges will be abolished or significantly reduced, between 30 and 50% with a total reduction in parafiscal burden of over half a billion kuna per year. 400 million kunas are abolished and 117 million kunas are reduced to compensation. To date, a reduction of 375 million kuna has already been made, and by the end of this year 142 million remain. According to new indicators, these measures have yielded results because in the last four months we have a reduction in the number of unemployed by 80,000 people. Industrial production is growing five months in a row, a quarterly GDP increase of 0.4%. Growth in personal consumption by 1.3% year-on-year. Croatia's exports increased 8 and a half per cent in the first three months of this year, reaching 17.1 billion kuna compared to the same period last year. At the same time, imports only increased by 2.6% to 29 billion. The foreign trade deficit was 11.9 billion kuna in the first quarter, down by 4.7% compared to the same period last year when it was $12.5 billion. The highest in this structure is 79.6% increased fuel and oil exports and 12.1% followed by exports of capital products. In EU countries, Croatia's most important trading partner, exports reached 10.7 billion kuna in the first quarter, 12 and a half percent higher than in the same period last year, while imports from those countries increased by 1.5% to 21.9 billion kuna. And the fifth point – order in the field of competitiveness, fair and correct competition. There's been a fiscalization. It's not about the new tax, it's about the collection of the existing VAT. The number of guests increased 18% during the first year of fiscalization, while the total number of people employed in cafes and restaurants increased by exactly 4089 people. Last year, coffee shops increased 68%, their staff increased 32% and their average net salary 8%. During 2013, they also managed to reverse the trend of long-term losses and the business year ending with a capital contribution of as much as 27%. Despite the recession, restaurants achieved an average growth of 68% in 2013 and employment increased 19% and net wage was 6%. The average profit per restaurant is 90,000 kuna. Finally, the introduction of a central salary account should be mentioned, as the number of people receiving salaries from the state budget has finally been established. It's about 258,000 people in 2250 institutions. This brief review of the implementation of the 2013 annual budget gives us the right to say that it should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82240	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82241	Thank you very much. Comrade Žagar, all that you have stated stands, but no improvements are seen, there is no improvement in total both property and property and any other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First, in advance of saying that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the Treasury will bring complete independence and that there will be enough money for health services without waiting lists that is imagination. That's all David Copperfield can do. In fact, you can't claim that since we already know that hospitals have regained their losses. What do you mean, 21 billion to settle all that together? He can't, he's not going. They're going to have to shrink, cut, you need to say it out loud here when you're already talking, you need to reduce your health insurance rights. Second. In retirement insurance, 10% of pensions went abroad. It's only when we're here with a lot of debates to say that we almost persuaded the minister to check all pensioners' OIBs for information that about 13,000 pensioners don't exist. 100 million kuna is paid annually for non-retirement pensions, and that's a good thing it's done. That's a great move. So in the Treasury, there'll be 100 million or slightly less kuna left. And the third thing I wanted to say was more. And that's it. I've got more. Yeah, excuse me, fiscalization. We welcome the fiscalization, but it's not the wetlands of this government. He says we're going to export it to the Czech Republic or I don't know where. Well, Serbia's been fiscalizing for 10 years. We remembered a year ago to introduce a fiscalization. It's been there for 10 years in Serbia. ... Yes, yes, go and buy a pack of cigars in Bacakh Palanka, and you'll see, etc. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82242	The answer to the replica Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82243	Dear colleague Grubisic,... You may have misunderstood me, of course I didn't even say it, and it's impossible to expect it that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's important is that when we talk about the health system is health system reform, and that might reduce the waiting list and allow hospitals, all the hospitals of the county, to operate state-run according to those limits they've been granted. And when we talk about this separation, then it's important that all the funds that are now allocated to individual ministries are used for the very purpose for which they are set. As far as fiscalization is concerned, we often do, it seems to me that even here in the debate of that mustache, we're talking about the techniques that exist, there are different ways to record each account. There was a proposal except for this fiscalization... Other proposals today, however, as information technology has progressed, this is a good way to record accounts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just a question of the very conduct of the inspection in which way, because often the way in the media here we see a screaming title closed by him I don't know, for one kuna. It is a matter of principle, therefore, whether it is accessible in such a way that bills must be paid. I don't know if, I've never heard of it, it wasn't the media that followed if someone left the store and said I wouldn't pay, he wouldn't pay for a favor if they didn't give him the bill. I often hear from citizens to come out, to go into the store, to buy goods without taking an account. You understand, it's simple, you're just in the replica you were saying, so democracy procedures, reforms are procedures. And when the procedure is followed, there's progress. So here it's important to respect the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82244	A colleague of Ante Jerolimov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82245	I would like to thank the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers with co-workers. I would begin my debate by returning to autumn 2012 and return to the beginning of December 2012 when 83 representatives of this Assembly raised their hands for the 2013 budget we are talking about today. Certainly, it is not easy for colleagues who then raised their hands to neither the government members nor the minister to account for their own failure. Because you will agree to all the 2013 budget is the first overall budget of this government alone and it is the best indicator of the results of the work of the ruling. No room for an alibi, no more ball transfer to the last government. To stay a little longer at that moment, when the budget was first proposed and then voted, you remember how and how, without debate, 34 amendments of the HDZ Club were rejected and, of course, the HDZ's representatives refused to participate in the debate. But we also remember how the President of the Parliament has a little bit of a misjudged the words I want you to feel good about yourself. Well, gentlemen, I'd like to ask if you're feeling well today. Do you feel good about bringing the 2013 budget to the VAT fraud by 1.8% and having a 1% drop? Do you feel good about predicting a 10.9 billion kuna deficit and having almost 17 billion kuna? And already after 6 months in 2013 you reached a drawn deficit. And believe me, everything that we could hear today is repeating and what we're going to talk about in the implementation of this annual budget. You can't say we didn't warn you, we both warned you from HDZ and independent economic and financial experts and HUP and trade unions, foreign agencies and even journalists that the budget is unrealistic and unsustainable. We talked about glass legs, about hollow budgets, about the lack of predicted economic growth of investments, and about how someone funny concluded instead of the budget, then we got a calculation. But unfortunately, there's nothing funny about everything that comes out of these black numbers that we're listening to and discussing today. There is nothing funny about the drop in foreign investment last year by 60%, there is nothing funny about growing the average unemployment rate in 2013 from 1.2% points, which is the most since 2002. There is nothing funny about eliminating the zero rate on bread, milk, medicines, books and other supplies you introduced VAT on 1 January 2013. Neither today's praises nor the announced fiscalisation nor the increase in the mass of tax burdens of citizens have helped. Unfortunately, there was no help in rebalancing your blood count, i.e. false forecasts and rebalancing in May 2013 that changed the projected GDP growth from 1.8% to 0.7%. Second rebalance from 0.7 to 02%. That second rebalancing was in December. So, not a month before the end of the year did you know or knowingly deceive the public about GDP, since the year ended as I previously pointed out with a minus one percentage point. The question arises which are the reasons for these black figures of the Croatian economy and the finances characteristic of the government's mandate. Well, the answer is actually hidden in the very question, the reason is just the current government. Over a period of year and a half, numerous changes have been made in the tax system of the Republic of Croatia and the only economic or economic policy implemented by this government is a repressive fiscal policy aimed exclusively at increasing the tax burden on citizens. Constant changes and additions to complex bureaucratic procedures and laws are likely to be a greater obstacle than existing taxes. More than 500 parafiscal duties were counted from the Croatian Employers' Association. Given the increasing burden of tax burden on citizens, and from the first interview of Minister Lalovac obviously do not think to stand on this, it is no wonder that the state is increasingly charging itself. And information on the total amount of enforcement over the financial assets of legal persons, craftsmen and citizens of 59.6 billion kuna is alarming enough. What's the alternative to all that? Many agree that it is necessary to create a fiscal space that will boost investment and create a space for co-financing of projects financed from European funds. We, for example. We have an ideal project in Zadar, the port of Gazenica. On the one hand, an investment that could have been worth 236m euros that the government was persistently holding it back, and on the other hand, the German Development Bank's money with a interest of 0.78% and the European Investment Bank. The interest of the concessionaire exists from Barcelona through Genoa to Antalia. And then with this budget that we're talking about today, we get 22 million kuna and we're having a key third phase of terminal construction. They tried our MPs then with the amendments, but the government unfortunately wouldn't even discuss them. Also because of the rebalancing in 2013 you took from co-financing of regular maritime coastal lines and here you refused our amendment. So you can't say you haven't been warned about all this. I could set dozens of examples from all over Croatia and all branches of the economy and life. The reasons for these negative examples will always be the same-missing economic policy of this government. To be honest, today in the summer of 2014 talk about a failed budget for 2013 when the same happens with this year, it is quite late. Cuckoo as someone here once said, complaining that one house burned down while burning down the entire village is really pointless. But this whole budget and summary and some sum of sumum in 2013 is simply based on this budget: GDP decline, excessive deficit and rising public debt. The triple economic flood of this government, and we know that in a school with three units, you're falling class or year. All of this results in a natural rise in unemployment, a fall in citizens' standards, debt slavery and poverty. Unfortunately, our citizens, this government, we will have to endure for a while because of these 80 hands of our fellow Members of the Parliament who are maintaining their mandate. I hope it feels good by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82246	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82247	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jerolimov, I will try to put this in a sports dictionary or on an example in sports. You come as a coach at a football club whose team fights for survival and then after 10 games played you succeed on half a plate and then you all get attacked and you only come on half a plate. No one's looking for an alibi. There are specific things being said here. Today, several people mentioned it in the debate here. 205,000 workers worked, they didn't receive salaries, no contributions were paid. 34 billion kunas of internal debt, indifference. 51 billion kuna of tax debts. These are all the things this government found. You simply know that in natural sciences and social sciences there is a principle of inertness. Things can't happen overnight. All those measures mentioned here, mentioned by the 2013 budget, lead to the recovery of the economy. We're still unfortunately in crisis, but this crisis as you can see, if you want to see from the indicator it's eroding or shrinking. We're not here to maintain how you said this government, we've been given the trust of citizens to work on these programs. Citizens in the regular election in a year and a half will decide whether or not we have done our job. It's not appropriate this way to say that we're only here to hold this government until the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82248	Replication response, Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82249	Unfortunately fellow, I understand you, your indignation, but that's true. In the end, you didn't get the club that was last on the table, so you took it up in the middle of the table, instead of the club that fought for the champion league, so you took it down in the second league. That's the difference, because look at just a little bit of GDP in the last three quarters of the last government and look at your GDP in all these neighborhoods so far, it'll be a lot clearer to you. If I gave it to you, a better team would be out of the league. And how barbarous you are defending and how contradictory what you say is, this budget was drawn up by fellow Linic, a representative now in the Parliament. He did it, he designed it. The ideal beginner of his and the executioner of this budget is a colleague of Linic's. You called him a liar, like this, not yourself, but your club...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82250	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82251	That's a fact, you forced him out of the government and now you're defending him indefensibly. If this budget was good...... /The noise in the hall./... How about some peace? I know this is hard for you to listen to, but it's true. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82252	Peace in the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82253	No one would chase a top coach from the team, in a sports dictionary. You had a top coach, you chased him away, and now you're defending what he was doing undercover or I don't know what you're accusing him of. So at least have the standards they need because... eventually. And enough information was provided by counterpart Buric, who said the current minister does not even have an assistant. Well, here's Mr. Sagar's empty spot. Help the man.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82254	Yet we hold a level of debate and let's not say that someone calls someone a criminal and defends himself here by someone who's been chased away. And now my colleague Slavko Linic will discuss it. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82255	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Ministers with Associates, Chief State Auditors with Associates. How can we observe this final 2013 report? The estimate is that there's too much deficit in the first place. And let's start with that. Then let's try to see what we can do at the expense, what on income and what's done. And then we'll see, but today's debate has shown reduced expenditure on employees, reduced subsidies, reduced material expenditures almost very small amounts to invest. The only thing that has not been reduced is the amount for pensions and no interest rates on funding. So the biggest problems on the spending side are two items. When we look at the most important deficit on the spending side, there's a record of expenditures on retired, employed people. For the simple reason that there are no good 17 billion kunas in relation to contributions and payments. So the important deficit in the Croatian budget is the amount of uncovered pensions. So that's cause and high VAT, so that's why I'd say parts of the assignment. On the other hand, what is evident is that a good part of the transition failure, a good part of the failure in the management of the property, we solved the debts. So today we have a simple huge debt and high interest rates. So that's two items and the question is if we can solve it. The first answer is we can't solve the pension. Why can't we? The rights acquired cannot be annulled. So, a million and 250 thousand pensioners until an active new job policy pulls them into the field of work, we won't cut them down. On the other hand, the average pension of 2300, 2400 is below social benefits in Europe. So we can't cut back. And 17 million is definitely every year minus in the state budget because it's not covered by its contributions. And that's why we'll continue to be in debt. And we're moving on. We see this revenue side, and then we'll come to think that the underlying problem is insufficient economic activity, that the basic problem that we have is the lack of economic growth and investment. And that's where we can have the debate about who he is, who he's wrong about. But I'm listening to your debates from the HDZ Club. Miss because you've reduced your contribution to health care. You missed because you reduced the VAT rate to catering services. All we have to say is that failure is probably a zero rate of reinvested profit. So, what does the 2013 Budget show? That the battle for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, that the battle for that economy to go to Europe and find a market there because it's '13. meant Europe and the enormous amount of customers, unlike the 4 million inhabitants in Croatia. So it was important to create competitiveness. And then we have what we can say to the tax policy in '13. The year went to a reduction in labour prices to be more competitive, an attempt to go on reinvestment. Why reinvestment? So to hire more people to invest, to boost production. And of course, what's most important is how the countries in the environment have a reduced VAT rate on the hospitality services of Greece, Spain, Italy was then to fight that Europe is coming to Croatia and not to go to other destinations because of non-board spending. So the government tried to influence its tax policy, but it's not the only thing that's done, it's not the only one. And then we return to the basic data that the economy due to huge crisis problems, due to unresolved internal problems that did not cause the crisis, failed privatisation recorded 45 billion mutually unpaid accounts and blocked accounts in 2012. That, at the same time, the total unpaid claims to the state were 50 billion. And the most tragic data that meant stopping economic activity was that the economy had less and less own capital from day to day, and only depended on loans. It's a blood count of the economy that was supposed to start investments, which needed to trigger economic activity. What was the government trying to do? Well, she was trying to make pre-fashion deals. We were all for pre-fashion settlements, and then I ask you, let's compare the pre-fashion deal with bankruptcy. Huge problems in a legal system that doesn't work. Your bankruptcy lasts with small companies over 5 years, and at 15 years old. What's the payout rate? Three to ten percent. You destroyed the believers, you destroyed the debtor and you lost your jobs. Pre-curious meant far more charge, quick procedures, and I'd say what kind of rescue works and debtors as well as creditors. The results are present, at one time indifference of 45 billion falls still to 34 billion, officially. It moves in a way to collect claims and state, through reprogrammes and pre-flights. Therefore, indifference, the small value of its own capital is the government trying to make additional measures and make them more operational to compensate for all the problems we have in the judiciary. There are very few and often we forget to talk about the breach of legal personality. Do you remember what that means? You close the firm, you open up a new firm, you transfer property, you forget your debts and everything. In pre-departure deals, the most private mutual transactions have been closed. All the dirty things that the judiciary didn't do, because it shouldn't have allowed new companies to open to those who left their debt. All of this is closed and done through pre-fashion settlements. Therefore, these were active measures of government policy in order to help the economy regain capital, to turn towards Europe and to start investment. What we can blame the government is that there are no large capital investments. But, you know, there were fights between the government and employers who said not only private investments, no matter how private if you don't have capital, if the bank doesn't anymore, if you've stopped paying out of banks. And that means it was still supposed to start with one hydropower plant, start with the railroad and start with the INA investments. And at that moment, these are the amounts spoken in billions of euros in several years. Then we could withdraw private capital with state-owned large investments. Why? Because on the domestic market, they would open up investment so that part of these people could just work, that's the problem. And of course it remains always the basic problem, the dubiouss are not complete, they're not complete. There will be more dubiosis from the Croatian Railways because unfortunately here we say we should give for CARGO subsidies. Well, my people where we live, there's no subsidy for CARGO since 2013, it can't be, it's marketable, the entity and he doesn't have the right to state subsidies, he has no right. Therefore, it can no longer be in the budget, they must fight. Passenger traffic has no subsidies, you can have subsidies in tickets from units of local self-government, but all investments and everything else they have to, what you have to deal with is infrastructure and investment in infrastructure. Everyone else has to be competitive with Europe and have to live. These are the problems that are still waiting for us because as we know, neither CARCO was resolved nor had any problems in the passenger, because they do not pay full compensation for the concession and use of the infrastructure. Then we'll talk about these roads, so because you see that roads are due, highways, 4 billion euros, 4 billion euros. The annual toll income is not enough to finance payments, it's not enough. All these are dubiouss that will fall back on the burden of the budget. All of these dubiosis means we will no longer be a pension system as a problem and interest rate, all of it will be in the budget, all of it will continue to be a spending party that will increase because the growth of interest, will grow interest. Yes, these are the problems we have permanently, which we need time to solve, and unfortunately we haven't even finished the story with the economy. Are you going to allow the private sector, so what he can do, he can object to the bad labour law, you're unhappy, you're slow in the papers about building permits, you stop, you're slow in the projects, you're all objecting, it's being discussed, but that the economy won't accept that we're trying to speed up bad justice through pre-departures, that it won't accept that a good portion of tax burden has been reduced to that same economy, but further in that part trying to say is not good. It is a battle for survival in which the battle for survival is obvious that it is very difficult to expect that the private sector will bring its contribution to economic growth as we would like. And obviously, it is not only a problem for the Government to slow down the restructuring of state-owned companies that will make further losses to the budget, but also the non-restructure of a private economy that is not efficient enough to be on the European market.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82256	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82257	Thank you, Madam Vice President. counterpart Linic, I have not heard that from the Croatian Democratic Community club said the failure to reduce the rate of contributions to health insurance from 15% to 13%. We're talking about another, we're saying that this project was unprepared in a way that the health care had lost 2 billion kuna as much as it meant a reduction in the rate, and that it wasn't, that the necessary reforms in the health sector that could accept such a reduction in the contribution that went from 15% to 13%. The second thing, you say you should have continued with the investments. I agree, you said you should build one hydropower plant, continue to build the railroad but you and I know well that the state administration couldn't prepare the documentation within such a short time, nor that it could start building a string line on one side, nor that any hydropower plant could build it either OMBLA or any other. Therefore, the question arises whether the Government is then aware that these two investments that I am also supporting and which should have been realised that they cannot be realised because of a number of problems with the construction documentation being carried out, whether it was opportunised to continue with certain projects for which there were documentation and which would involve the engagement of the construction sector in the Republic of Croatia. And on the one hand, we stopped the investments for which we had the documentation, and on the other hand, the ones that the government... that are good and necessary, the incentive for the development of the economy could not be opened because they could not have been provided with documentation although the Law on strategic... projects... was adopted for these own projects despite such a law, could not have opened such an investment. And third thing, here, I'm finishing up Madam Vice President. And thirdly, the government has shown in the absence of such investments with those projects that could already have been on funding from European funds today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82258	Thank you very much. Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82259	Here, fellow Shuker said he didn't think there should have been a reduction We're talking, it shouldn't have, therefore, been enough to say who. [[Intruder: This way...]] But I agree that the tax system isn't complete. Why? Because if we reduced two index points to health care, it would be normal to do it in '14. Let's go two more points down, not back. But, of course, a real estate tax was to be introduced. Not only is it rich people with full budgets, not employees, because health care is a tax for low average employees, 5 thousand kunas, and real estate means wealth. There's something else. Massa and your mayors and these mayors are pilgrimages because companies are closed, no employees, hotels fail, buildings fail, plants fail. No one pays a single kuna of communal compensation because the communal fee if you don't work, you don't pay. And the real estate tax system means when you don't work, you pay 10 times more than when you work. Therefore, it is also a very clear message to entrepreneurs. Have to put your assets into operation because you'll lose your property through tax. Therefore, I agree with you, it is not complete and it is the same failure because it should have gone with modern taxes that guarantee that someone will answer... benefit property, not return to health care. And very briefly, when it comes to investment, rich countries can afford to build some infrastructure facilities that don't give money, they don't pay back money. INA drives, HEP drives, railways pay back money. That's the difference because every spending on building operations, if you don't get your money back, is a new deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82260	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82261	Well, fellow Linic, I'm glad that you finally said what you've been saying all along, and that's that for... tax reforms is real estate tax. However, you should also say what amount is expected of this property tax, which is about 7.8 billion each year, 7.8 billion Croatian citizens cannot pay the Croatian economy at this time. It's just a fact. And to clear this story up about 2% of the health contribution, if that's so good, why did you bring it back to 15%? I continue to argue that the majority of Croatian companies have below 50 employees. 2% of health contributions are on average 1000 kuna per employee per year, so 50 employees is 50 thousand kuna. No serious company with 50 thousand kunas can do anything, but that whole package that fits into it, and this hospitality gap might make sense, but at a time like this, it's going to go with partial solutions, it's practically reduced the income of the state budget by 4 billion, and you didn't know where to make it up. Also, where did the effect of introducing, canceling zero rates from 0 to 5% for certain items of billions and 800? It just kind of blew up in some kind of measure. However, if it were a systematic tax reform package, then the story would look different. And I don't think there's any need to argue about it here, and as far as the structure of the Croatian economy, model A, B and C 2010 clearly defined it. Very low capitalisation of most Croatian companies who are unable to raise credit and who simply cry for trade funds to cover these obligations, among other things, towards the state and suppliers. And that is the structure of the Croatian economy. Why the business banks didn't get involved in that battle, it's their calculations, but the facts are that we still have all the negative macroeconomic indicators. We say, we cut the water contribution, we did, but we introduced a new fee for anyone who spends a liter of water to pay for more expensive water. Well, then we haven't cut down if we've transferred the burden of the economy to every Croatian citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82262	Thank you. Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82263	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, there is no doubt that the tax system is not to the end and it is not as it was drawn either by a coalition plan, which means that the burden of work will be reduced and transferred to the property and the special... property or real estate, so we changed later. What I want to explain to you, the basic problem and small companies is incompetence. As they could place anything on the European market, they must be competitive. One of the greatest incompetences is the labour price, all the analyses show. And what we need to know about that labour price, the net wage isn't big, so the impositions are big. It is evident that they contribute to what is called pensions cannot be reduced, so the only place to reduce is to contribute to health care. And that part is part of the battle for competitiveness. So we have to fight to keep every company competitive, not just to think about whether it's something that's tolerable or not. Because it's not on the domestic market, maybe someone could have worked in such a way as to have a small profit, out when it comes with the prices it needs, it goes down, there's no one to cover it. And what I'd like to say is, another government programme that wasn't talked about today, which is that we're trying to solve the lack of the presence of banking and banking sectors through HABOR. So this is the reason that HABOR, with its resources, entered any investment on its own, divided, and we even tried to solve the insolvency system in such a way that the governor seems to me Rohatinski and the National Bank offered a reduction in the minimum reserve to create around 7.8 billion kuna, and all in the function of strengthening trade capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82264	The final five HDZ clubs, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82265	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think some people obviously find this boring, but I think we've just started a part of the debate that's been going on in this House for 10 years, except we've been accessing it differently depending on which position we're approaching. So, for seven years as a minister, I was talking about the problem of pension and health deficits that create, regardless of the foundation someone gets a pension from. He deserves it by virtue of certain laws and should be paid to him. And they're constantly producing, let's say, it's now 17,17.5 billion minus what's added up. Health care right now has about 2 to 3 billion that's 20 billion, the government budget deficit is 16, 17 doesn't matter how much but it's definitely a fundamental problem. When we talk about competitiveness, let's not talk about it by heart. Let's say 3.5 thousand net wages and when we look at its tax burden and contributions, that salary is 91, 2.3% taxed, and only 8% taxed. And now you hear the story of someone whose contribution it is and taxes are also very high in Croatia. Fellow colleagues and colleagues effective income tax rate in the Republic of Croatia somewhere 12.8 let's say it's 13% but it's not anymore, it's an effective income tax rate. This means all incomes in the Republic of Croatia that are earned when citizens take advantage of all those benefits that have an untaxable share and when you take the total paid income tax it is at a rate of 12.8%. Now tell me which state has a lower income tax rate? But then let's talk about the problem that is what it is. I'm just saying I'm not gonna talk any different now than I was saying when I was in a situation to be in charge of state finances. I'm simply not going to be incorrect to the colleagues who are doing this job today, but this is a topic that should definitely be discussed without politics and without politics. And now I could say the easiest solution is 80,000 jobs. We're going to get more contributions from each other, and it's going to cut... and it's over. Yeah, but colleagues and colleagues what reform needs to be done to get to those 80,000 jobs? But I'm not gonna say it simply because it would be irresponsible, it wouldn't be correct. But these are two things that burden the competitiveness of the Croatian economy on one hand, raise a tremendously high labour price, and on the other hand do not cover even about what needs to be financed. And I know that colleagues from HSU will say that regular pensions are covered with it, but these people who went under some other laws paid some part of the year a pension contribution. No defender, very few, unfortunately, are those young people who have been wounded and who have retired without paying a pension contribution. They all made pension contributions, they didn't leave school, they all went to war, some worked for 20, 30 years. So that's the problem we have to look at in another way. Does Croatia currently have room to... tax base, tax base? Very difficult. Why? Because unfortunately the properties that were acquired were acquired in some other times, under some other conditions in loans that did not have a currency clause. You remember those housing loans at the firm, so friends get together Saturday, Sundays whitewash the blanket, raise the floor, and that property didn't have any kind of market value because it was created in a completely different way. And when you're going to tax her today by some part or by how much that property is used, then, unfortunately, those people can't pay for it. I can even say an example because my late father worked out his whole life and he has a pension and now mom when she inherited that pension she couldn't cover those liabilities with that pension she's got today. So even that pension coming from the outside is no longer a big leap compared to what was once because once the mark was worth far more than the euro is worth today, only it could have been this parity of purchasing power that was far greater. So there are a lot of things to consider because real estate tax has not been made up or Minister Linic, no one, has been working on that tax in the Ministry of Finance for years. However, in the years of crisis, it was manually withdrawn because the assessment was also by the people of the World Bank and everyone to make it a difficult social blow to the Republic of Croatia. But why am I saying all this, why did I answer on behalf of the club? Because obviously this tax reform was designed, it turned out to be partial and unfortunately for all of us and for Croatian citizens it achieved a negative effect, it is the biggest problem. Maybe if we didn't touch anything in taxes, maybe today's situation would be better than it is now, maybe, and maybe not, we never know. And that's why I'm going to conclude, in times of crisis, it's not a good idea to play with taxes, because you don't have a constant to charge that tax if you don't know what's going to happen to your labour market or what happens to your companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82266	Final presentation of Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82267	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I thank you for your debate today, although it is the execution of 2013 today, key issues have been raised, especially before the end, on key issues where I will likely have to ask for some consensus very quickly. Is the future the way we will continue with these headings, not offering certain solutions knowing that we have both in the pension and health systems of major dubiosis seen even more when there is a crisis, because they were covered at the time of economic growth. And what the European Commission's opinion when they were saying is that in Croatia, the impact of the global financial crisis and the banking crisis has not occurred, which has become too much for the very reason why we say that the banks in Croatia and the insolvency banks are highly capitalised, we have a good ratio of capital and savings, and when you look at our banking system in relation to Europe, it is stricter. And actually here let's say our governor has some positive effect when he goes outside we're all talking about the problem. You can only see across the street from us in Slovenia where they had to raise 5 billion euros this year, 5 billion euros had to be raised for the recovery of banks. In Croatia, a billion people are talking about when we recently went by a billion to cover the bonds in 2015, they only had to raise 5 billion for banks. And which means that in different countries they have different problems, but in Croatia these problems that we have talked about are now more pronounced. They come to terms when you have these deficits in the pension and health system. And when it happens to you in most parts of Croatia, which is why the economy has been collapsed and because of real estate business because all this data shows the reinvestment of our entrepreneurs in that part of the business which is not part of something that just happened to Croatia, it happened to Spain, it happened to some other countries, and then you don't have a mechanism. What we've been telling the judiciary here to get that part of the property back to the market very quickly, you don't have a very fast effective judicial system to restructure the companies. Then he waits because he's waiting for some better times and those better times at five, six years don't come. The value of the property still stands in bank balances at very high values and simply when the CNB is now asking to raise reservations for these properties simply happens to withdraw manually by banks, by banks withdrawing manually and then the only financier in the crisis market you find yourself in a HABOR, a state agency that gets funding and the Government to finance their underlying capital and that he is the only salvation at this time of crisis. Which means that all mechanisms, then we're looking through the funds of economic cooperation, too, so-called. Venture capital funds which is all too little, which is all too little. So we're talking about difficult structural problems when we have such major deficits that we're creating two systems that haven't gone through the reform and when it happens to you on the side of the economy where I said that only income on the domestic market is lost about 100 billion kuna simply in that part of the pressure that is, on the budget is nothing more than the imbalances that happen to you in the economy. So public finances actually see all imbalances and economies and the overall economic, economic system that let's say is nothing new for Croatia but what is different from other countries. However, why are other countries coming out quickly? Because they had in 2004, in 2005, especially the new countries had strong investment in industry, which is what Croatia did not actually have for years, because we thought that we would... The economy and construction of the real estate market create that income that will be sufficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then this problem is being created that we have what we are very well recognised in Europe, says you are rich in real estate but poor in income. And then in that part of the imbalance, you can't even finance the current maintenance of these properties and you don't have an economy, you don't have an industry to carry on. And all this good stuff that we built and the former government that started and the previous infrastructure, in the roads, in the railways, someone has to keep it going. The only one who can keep it in the long run in all countries is industry, that's what we're talking about. And when we come to drop our number of employees in the industry below 200 grand, that's a big structural problem. And because of this measure that we have been taking and reducing, we can say whether what effect it is on a small or large company but the reinvested profits and the promotion of their capital because we said they were subcapitalized, and imagine even when they were subcapitalized and the banks because of these reservations that the CNB should have done to them by my honest court in 2009 and not in 2013 when it was actually, when it was due to come out of the crisis. Because the Americans how they solved their crisis as soon as it happened to them that year, they cleaned up the balance sheets. And not wait for the real estate market to reform, and then in 2013 you penalize entrepreneurs and that's why they can't come out. And with us there's a big problem and a real estate fund that we said if we formed it through... We need to look for other solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because simply all companies that have invested in their basic activities have invested on the side of certain properties. And these are essential problems which may be why these effects we give tax haven't been seen in the economy. Or they don't have such a strong lever, they don't have such a strong lever. And for this reason, only including fiscal policy, because it is impossible to resolve the overall economic policy. And that is where the hand and monetary policy should be given and that is the key when both fiscal and monetary together solve these problems of economic activity. And that if we find a consensus on what models, but let's guess at the economy that these are... to actually return one part of the industry, to unblock that part of the property, to try to clean up, to try to solve it the other way and not to burden the current business and then to go into these reforms which are necessary especially for the health system, then actually these effects will be more powerful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, with such large imbalances and in the fifth year simply the pressures on the budget are high but it is simply cumulation, cumulation, cumulation of all that and our past but also simply too strong impact on the economy and now we pay a high price through high interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82268	And the replica held by Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82269	Well, here's a short one, I don't know, Mr. Minister, why I have some deep impression that you're completely wrong. And when it comes to this focus of yours and I, and maybe a little say and fixation on this real estate problem, I'm particularly troubled by the fact that this impulse and fixation of the problem on this real estate fund and everything that it burdens didn't come from employers as a problem, it's not so much heard from them that it's a business problem, the burden of relations with banks already systematically comes from your government, it appears practically as a light motive that follows the work of your ministry and with the previous minister and now with you and like that weight around our feet. And that's why I don't think it's coming, so employers bring up a whole series of problems but at least they're suffering from real estate problems and they're not talking about the weight of real estate that when we take them off the door that our economy is going to start. And secondly, when you talk about this monetary policy, so come on, you're actually the one who really needs to get along with that monetary policy. We cannot bring you into parliament as a fiscal policy and the CNB as a monetary policy, so line up, coordinate, agree on some measures, make some suggestions if you need the Croatian Parliament's support to do what it can do to the CNB. But that part of the Ministry of Finance's relationship, or the government and the CNB, is on you, is not on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82270	Replication response, Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82271	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow MP, I'm going to take some time off and say that I know this system a little better than I said about real estate and more detailed analysis. If you want, I can show you the companies individually, and many of them have 0 kunas of income, which have millions in balances of their debt. And that's a big problem and talk to a lot of companies too, so take from Vartex, take these numerous companies that we started through their pre-fashion deals, talk to Mr. Juro Radic from IGH, talk to a number of companies, because we also talked through pre-fashion deals with them. We talked every day and it was just a speech. And at the open conferences that were saying that let's say that came one of their moments of truth that they were saying, that start of business in 2006, 2007, 2008, a lot of it was unfinished. I'm surprised you didn't walk around the city of Zagreb and see how unfortunately we have empty apartments, how many empty spaces we have, how much we actually have unused property, and that's true. And certain companies in Dalmatia, I'm not even talking to you. So these are exact figures that are actually obtained from the company's financial report register. So what we're talking about, what I'm talking about is actually a taste of everything when you're talking to entrepreneurs, at least in that part to stop them from further investment. It also means big entrepreneurs, as well as certain small entrepreneurs who have done certain project companies. This is nothing new for Croatia, but what we are looking for are solutions, and if it happened, it happened in real estate so that we can get them back to the market as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82272	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the reports later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82273	Let us declare: (a) a proposal for the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and (b) a proposal for the Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the annual report has been accepted by most votes, 84 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 3 abstentions. In accordance with the provisions of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning I am giving the budget law to vote on the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 4 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to an annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for 2013. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the 2013 Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I confirm that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 24 votes against, 4 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to an annual report on the implementation of the 2013 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan. 3. I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2013. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 23 votes against, 5 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to an annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2013. 4. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2013. I beg your pardon, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 6 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan and the resolution of banks for 2013. 5. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Agency's financial plan for State Property Management for 1 to 9 months 2013. I beg your pardon, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 25 votes against, 3 abstentions, have been decided to agree on an annual report on the implementation of the National Property Management Agency's financial plan for 1 to 9 months 2013. Six. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Restructure and Sales Centre for 1 to 12, for 10 to 12. 2013 Thank you very much. I beg your pardon, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 1 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for the 10th to 12th month 2013. In accordance with Article 9(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, I am putting the fiscal responsibility law to the vote of the 2013 Annual Report on the application of fiscal rules. I beg your pardon, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 4 abstentions have been adopted, the Annual Report on the application of fiscal rules for 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82551	We will now bring together the debate - Report of the State Audit Office on the audit of tourist communities and the Institute of Tourism - Report of the State Audit Office on the review of nature conservation, biodiversity protection and management in national parks The State Audit Office submitted these reports on the basis of Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as regards the revision of the tourism communities and the Institute for Tourism, and the audits of nature conservation, biodiversity protection, management in national parks along with the Committee on Finance and the State Budget debate were conducted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received their reports at the session. The Croatian government delivered its opinions. Introductoryly, these reports will be explained by the chief state auditor, Mr Ivan Klesic. Here you go. Okay, the clubs are gonna say that. 20 minutes, that's when we announce the clubs. [[Intruder Shucker: 20 minutes.]] [[Okay, just for the record. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82552	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office carried out a financial audit of 68 tourist communities, the Croatian Tourist Board of Zagreb, 20 tourist communities of the county, 39 tourist communities of cities, 4 tourist communities of municipalities and 3 tourist communities of the area, as well as the Institute of Tourism from October to April of this year. The audit covers financial reports and business reports for 2012. According to the Journal of the Ministry of Tourism in the Republic of Croatia, 296 tourist communities were established, 21 of them at the level of the county and the City of Zagreb, 114 at the level of cities, 135 at the level of municipalities, 15 at the level of the site, 10 tourist communities of the area and one island tourist community, that is the island of Krk. The total revenues of all tourist communities for 2012 amounted to 751.3 million kuna, and the audit covered the tourist communities, made revenue for 2012 amounting to €556.6 million, which accounts for 74.1% of the total revenues of all tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia. From this point on, the Croatian Tourist Board made revenues for 2012 amounting to HRK 256.7 million, with the largest number of audits of the affected tourist communities making revenue of 5 million kuna. The audit covered the tourist communities had 444 employees at the end of 2012, and one tourist community has more than 20 employees, while the largest number of 49 tourist communities has up to 5 employees. As with all others and these audits have been carried out in accordance with international audit standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions. The main objectives of the audit were to verify the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports and to verify the application of laws and regulations, to verify the correctness of the acquisition of income, the achievement of expenditure and the correctness of the execution of other transactions. On the basis of the facts identified, and in accordance with the abovementioned standards, the State Audit Office shall express its opinion on the financial reports and business of the audit entities. On the basis of the established facts on financial reports and the business of tourist communities, 23 unconditional opinions and 46 conditional opinions have been expressed. In terms of conditional opinion, I particularly wanted to highlight this here because often people ask me, and I tried to explain to some people and on the board how the State Audit Office actually actually gives opinions unconditionally, conditionally, abstentionally and unfavourably, so here I emphasized this, the expression of conditional opinion was influenced by irregularities related to the work and internal structure, the internal control system, strategic and annual planning, financial reports, accounting, income and expenditure. In addition, the State Audit Office also assessed the efficiency of tourist communities in promoting and improving tourism, cooperation with local units and the efficiency of spending from residence fees, tourist budget membership and other sources. 61 of the 68 tourist communities were found to have been effective in promoting and improving tourism, which means they have done most of the planned tasks and activities, organised and participated in the organisation of different events and participated in the development of tourism development plans in their fields. It is also estimated that the tourist communities used funds in line with annual work programmes, and that they have established cooperation with local units, which we also believe is very important. Since most of the tourist communities have not established indicators to measure the effects of the activities and tasks carried out on tourism development, the State Audit Office has made recommendations to do so in drawing up a strategic plan and annual work programmes. I would also like to emphasise that irregularities can be divided into those which can be immediately removed by tourist communities and those whose removal is necessary to improve the first legislative and internal acts, then improve cooperation between the institutions regarding the collection and registration of claims for residence tax and claims for tourist membership fees. Given that the State Audit Office monitors the execution of tasks and recommendations, which is one way of measuring the effectiveness of the work of top audit institutions, I would like to report that the tourist communities and the Institute of Tourism have started their activities in implementing the tasks and recommendations given. Based on the evidence of the activities carried out by 57 tourist communities of a total of 380 given orders and recommendations, 273 or 72% of orders and recommendations were carried out. Furthermore, the State Audit Office has carried out a review of nature conservation, biodiversity protection and management in national parks. In October 2012, the State Audit Office signed a joint cooperation agreement with Denmark, Norway, Poland, Ukraine, Bulgaria and Lithuania on the joint audit of national parks. In accordance with the agreement, the Office carried out this audit, the review of nature conservation, biodiversity protection and management in national parks. On the basis of the audits carried out in all parties to the Agreement, a report containing joint findings and recommendations shall also be drawn up to improve the management and protection of biodiversity in national parks. As you know, the Republic of Croatia has 8 national parks, of which in this audit we have now done, which we have completed, were covered by 4 national parks. It is Krka, Kornati, Paklenica and Mljet. The subject of the audit was the system of conservation of nature and protection of biodiversity, and management in national parks, and the audit included the activities of the competent authorities in charge of nature conservation and biodiversity protection, and the functioning of the management system in national parks. The audit entities were the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection, State Nature Protection, Public Institute Krka National Park, Kornati National Park, Public Institute National Park Krka, Public Institute National Park Mljet and Public Institute Paklenica National Park. The area of the audit was developed on the basis of data collected on nature protection in the national parks of the Republic of Croatia, and according to agreement with the International Audit Coordinator to ensure the comparability of findings related to the maintenance and protection of biodiversity. For the assessment of the effectiveness of the nature conservation system and the protection of biodiversity in national parks, the audit objectives were as follows: To assess the suitability of the legislative and institutional framework in the section relating to nature conservation and biodiversity protection in national parks. Then assess the effectiveness of competent authorities and correctness in implementing measures related to the conservation of nature and the protection of biodiversity in national parks, and assess the efficiency of management in national parks. On the basis of the facts established by the revision, it has been assessed that the legislative framework relating to the conservation of nature and the protection of biodiversity is in line with European legislation, as well as the Nature Protection Act is not fully governed by the protection and conservation of nature and its values, and there is no clear determination of the competences of the institutions in the protection of nature. The State Audit Office has assessed that the institutional framework does not allow public institutions to carry out the activities of protecting the maintenance and promotion of the protected area in a sufficiently efficient and effective manner. It is also estimated that, except in the area of Paklenica National Park, the protected area is not managed actively enough. Only a small part of the necessary management activities of priority habitats, species and ecological processes are implemented so that information on endangered habitats, species and ecological processes is not sufficient for quality planning, decision-making or management. An examination of the existing situation of the cause of threat and the problem of the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity in national parks found that national parks in the Republic of Croatia have a great wealth and diversity and a high degree of value and conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity. But there are a number of threats that could in the future violate this, I would say, for now, a satisfactory condition. The audit also found that national parks' public institutions do not have sufficient powers to manage national parks effectively. In view of the above, the State Audit Office made recommendations to the competent ministry, the institution and public institutions. Our office estimates that the implementation of further recommendations would contribute to better nature conservation and biodiversity protection and increase the efficiency of management in national parks. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82553	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82554	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is my duty to inform you that on 12 June 2014 the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Report on the audit of tourist communities and the Institute of Tourism as an interested working body. After the introduction by the applicant, i.e. the rapporteur, followed a debate that pointed out that this revision included only one quarter of the tourist communities that generate 71% of the total revenue of the entire system, which actually meant that the audit did not cover the business of the large number of least tourist communities that mainly have one employee and where practice unfortunately showed that the state of business discipline was far the worst. Of all the tourist communities that have received conditional opinion are a large majority of relapsers who have failed to improve their own practice in 5 years and all see difficulties with the financial and accounting system that almost 98% of them use for service, so-called. exorcising. It remains unclear why exactly they allocate funds for that outsorcing accounting-booking part of the job when it's done in such a way? It has been indicated that the system is the worst functioning in the collection of funds that finance the activities of tourist communities. The available data clearly show the existence of 65 million kuna commitments and 17.8 million kuna claims resulting in a greater number of tourist communities actually working with losses. The problem lies in the lack of information how much the tourist communities have total assets. Tourist communities don't have accurate information about who's in their debt to and from what. It has been warned that the system has been functioning this way for years. Regarding strategic planning, it has been pointed out that unfortunately, in the vast majority of cases there is no serious strategic planning for the development of tourist destinations through tourist communities systems. This revision document should further run and speed up the process of reorganisation of the entire system, given that the existing system is not functional enough, and in particular the problem is expressed in small tourist communities with only 1 employees who are unable to comply with all the obligations provided by law and which most of their incomes are used for the self-sustainability of business. The question is, do we really need all these local tourist communities within the existing range? A better complex system would certainly be more successful in creating tourism products at local levels, more rationally doing business, and in this context and more successful in implementing the idea of developing destination management. It was also pointed out that the director of the HTZ General Office had a gross salary of 46 thousand kuna, which is doubtful in the context of Croatian opportunities. Practice has shown that in many places tourist communities are systems that do not carry out their basic activity but something else entirely. In this context, there is also a question of the criteria by which people who lead and manage such systems are chosen. The situation in which the current system is currently calling for a much more rational use of financial resources, their exclusive focus on raising the tourist attractiveness of the destination, attracting consumers, generating new budget revenues and encouraging tourism staff who can improve and enrich the existing system through their innovative approach. The report on the revision is a clear signal that it is urgent to move forward with full amendments and the Law on Tourist Communities, the Law on membership and the Law on residence tax. The system clearly can no longer function successfully in the same way as it was established 20 years ago. However, it has been warned that the reform of the system should take into account the needs of the development of continental tourism, especially rural tourism which should not be further threatened by radically abolishing smaller and financially weaker local communities. It is recommended that all tourist communities that have received a conditional opinion on the need to know how they turn to either the Croatian tourist community or the county tourist communities that will help them with all the ambiguities related to the failures made in the accounting and accounting segment. It is also proposed to allocate certain funds in this respect in the HTZ Financial Plan for the necessary education of such a type. Only a disciplined and well-compromised system can achieve optimal results in a programming sense. It has been warned of the inadmissible fact that the system of tourist communities is not a mandatory public procurement system which can result in and what has happened again and again and again to various abuses in the realization of events and promotions. Further discussion stressed that out of 23 unconditional opinions of the State Audit of 15 tourist communities that received this is located in the continental part of the country, it is particularly important to take into account that tourist communities on the continent have significantly lower incomes than others. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament most of the votes a conclusion to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82555	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Clubs will talk for 20 minutes. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, and a colleague, Branko Bačić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82556	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected chief state auditor with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this Report on the audit of the tourism communities of the Institute of Tourism for 2012. In the cave itself or at least this should be in July 2014, it is not interesting to talk at all about the work of the tourist communities of the Institute in 2012. It seems to me that today we have a little bit of an awakening sign that threatens us with the collapse of the tourist season. In May 13.2% less nights than last year. We're under threat of economic downturn. Croatian tourism is indeed the cornerstone of economic development today and is currently an extremely difficult financial stability for the country, and it is also one of the most important resources of future economic development. Therefore, the existing situation needs to be improved, insufficiently used resources should be identified, created in a tourist product and presented quality in the markets. In addition to the basic objectives of the peer review, the audit of tourism communities of the Institute of Tourism should also have specific objectives, which are to assess efficiency in promoting and improving tourism and assess the efficiency of spending from residence fees. Therefore, this revision helps us to identify what is a hindrance to the development and work of tourist communities, everything that complicates the system and what is holding back or slows down the development of tourism and needs to be changed. These audits, too, show that the largest number of irregularities and failures refer to accounting operations in almost 90% of cases, and in many cases it is missed deadlines or wrong methodology. Thus, there is a need to review existing legal obligations or to punish offenders. So, for example. Some tourist communities have not established internal control which is not against those who have one or two employees, although it is enough for such to establish clear business procedures that it is difficult to be both accountants, and lawyers, and economists, and leader of tourist events, promoter of promotional material, as well as cleaning woman of business spaces. Does it make sense that each such small tourist community brings to itself the procedure of internal control and supervision. It is necessary to encourage creativity, innovation, connect blue and green, network interests, develop partnership and to work bureaucratic moths on from directors and tourist communities. But the revision also found that tourist communities do not receive data from the tax administration not the manner prescribed by law. It is thus assumed that due to unsolicited claims, 200 to 300 million kunas are lost annually. The State Audit Office therefore proposed to the tourist communities to request the tax administration to submit records of the billing and to collect membership fees in accordance with the provisions of the Membership Act. Is it not more logical that the tax administration is ordered by the State Audit Office, the Government, or by accepting this report by this high home not to ignore the demands of tourist communities because they are not the whims of a small director, but a legal obligation that binds both the tourist community and the tax administration. It's interesting how, in this case, it's easier to reprove a small one than to change a large one, working against the law isn't allowed by some small ordinary mortal, but it's tax administration. Well esteemed gentlemen, if we want to protect the tax administration and change its work, let's adapt to them and at least we won't be able to say that the tax administration is breaking the laws. The House Tax Act should be reviewed, and more resources should be left to the tourist communities in whose area tourism traffic is being achieved, should be developed, not abolished by foreign representations of the Croatian Tourist Board, but also asked for results, measured by the quality of their work and impact, should be collected and not just nights. The findings of the State Audit Office should be the basis for decision-making in the tourism sector, and this is lagging behind because it crosses the State Audit findings as if nothing had happened, and here is the criticism of why only now, so late, a debate is held in a half-empty assembly. The findings must be used to correct overall negativity and improve the system. However, it can be concluded that in this case as well as in 2012 and 2013, nothing will change to facilitate and improve tourism, tourism activities and tourist workers. And there is nothing concrete about this, but as from the end, we wait for the tourist season and tourist success to happen again, and it happens every year more difficult and later. Tourism is mentioned only in the summer months and even in the review of the tourist community as it is today and how time is now to go to the coast and send the strongest surveillance. Tourism is on the move but seasonal harassment of catering and tourist workers is on the move. Tax inspectors on the ground will be from 0 to 24 every day. I don't know if it's a promise or a threat from the Ministry of Finance. Titles such as "The Strongest Coast Control for All Hosts, Merchants, Renters, Florists, Hairdressers" are a psychological blow to all those who live on tourism. The Institute of Tourism is the only public scientific institute specialising in tourism research and consaltics, and is an associate of tourism operators in achieving a common goal, achieving the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. The Institute has revenues of more than 10 million kuna and 30 employees, but besides all our experts, the operational marketing plan of Croatia for 2013 was entrusted to external agencies for a considerable amount of money. The justification of this work could not even be confirmed by the state audit. We support this revision, we support these recommendations, and we demand that they be binding on all participants, to act on the order of this revision not only on that small director with a gross salary of 1500 kuna, but also on the Ministry of Tourism, the Government, and this Parliament, to amend and supplement the laws to conduct a large and untouchable tax administration. One who has time and is able to give fear not only to the catering and tourist workers, but also to the guests whose things are thrown into the street. The IRS knows everything and what law should not violate a small man, but it also forgets its obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82557	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the report on the review of nature conservation, biodiversity protection and management of national parks. Namely, the report confirmed that the efforts made by the Republic of Croatia in relation to conservation and improvement of existing biodiversity have yielded results. Namely, the report found that national parks and those covered by this report are Krka, Kornati, Paklenica and Mljet, and continue to have great wealth and diversity and high levels of values and conservation of biodiversity and... diversity. The report recognises the possibility of further improving the legislative and institutional framework and managing national parks in order not to undermine the existing state of national parks in the future. The report covered the period from 2010 to 2012, and as only the report was made from 09 October 2012 to 11 March this year, this report, which we commend, also includes assessments of new regulations from the field of nature protection adopted in the post-2012 period, in particular the new Nature Protection Act. The audit, as I said, covers 4 national parks, Krka, Kornati, Paklenica and Mljet, as... audits of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, the State Institute for Nature Protection and 4 public institutions. What is important to highlight is that in order to achieve the objective of preserving nature and protecting biodiversity in national parks, it is important to highlight 3 key elements, i.e. instruments. The first spatial plan is the area of specific features, the second is the management plan of the national park and the third is the adoption and adoption of the protection and preservation rules. A review of the spatial plans adopted in the area of special features and in the Republic of Croatia has adopted spatial plans for the mentioned 4 national parks, but for the other 4 national parks have also been adopted in the Croatian Assembly the spatial plans of the area of special features. What is important to point out is that 2 out of 4 covered national parks have not adopted management plans, namely Mljet and Kornati, and we have also warned the Ministry that public institutions operating the Mljet National Park and Kornati National Park as soon as possible bring those management parks. However, it is not necessary to adopt these management plans alone, they must fully comply with the spatial plans of the Croatian Parliament in order to meet the full purpose of this national park-run public institution. When we talk about an analysis, i.e. the assessment of the legislative framework, I said that we at the club welcome that the revision is also covered by new legislation, but it would be good if the State Audit Office had looked at the effects of the Law on the Protection of Nature, which is the Law on the Protection of Nature, and this revision also covers the Law on Marine Fisheries, it would be good for the State Audit Office to take a look at the effects, that is, the effect of the Law on spatial regulation in the part in which the spatial arrangement covers and protected areas of nature. We in the HDZ Club have highlighted in the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning a significant flaw which I think would be good for me that this report is also recognized, which is that the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning of a Public Institution which manages a protected area of nature, in this case a national park, is not a party to the procedure when a local authorisation is issued in the area it manages. Therefore, the public institution of Plitvice Lakes National Park, Mljet, Krka and Kornati is not a party to the procedure when the competent authority of the state administration issues a local authorisation in that area, which is unacceptable for us, we have warned of this because it does not play the basic role of a public institution, which is that in the area it manages it can issue certain conditions of restrictions when it comes to issuing local permits. This report also well noted shortcomings in the part in which the discrepancies between the two important laws, that is, the Nature Protection Act and the Sea Fisheries Act. Namely, because of this constitution of the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Nature Protection, better preserved marine eco systems are outside protected areas than those marine systems located in the area of the national park or nature park. It is therefore inadmissible that at this time the Adriatic Sea and the marine eco system is better protected outside the area managed by public institutions in protected areas than the eco-system within the national park itself. In this regard, when adopting the Law on Marine Fisheries and the adoption of the Nature Protection Act, we also warned the Ministry that, in parallel with the law, the issue of fishing in both national parks and other protected areas of nature was to be regulated, so as to illustrate, as an example, the Bay of Maloston, where at this point neither the Law on the Protected Area of Nature nor the Nature Act regulates the way of fishing in a special Maloston Bay reserve. Therefore, it has already been time for both Ministers or Ministers of Environment, with the consent of the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of Fisheries to adopt a regulation that would regulate the way of fishing in Maloston Bay, but also in other protected areas, since fish predators in Maloston Bay are destroying mariculture in the first row of stones that are far known in the Bay of Maloston, so we support this report, which found that the protection of the marine eco system outside the national park is better decorated than in the area of the national park, but not only in the national park but also in other protected areas. When it comes to the assessment of the institutional framework, the State Audit Office has found that it is well-designed but is not in practice effective enough because of the lack of staff, appropriate equipment and infrastructure to carry out the protection activities and that it is necessary to provide greater resources, a greater number of employees in public institutions operating primarily national parks. What is not seen in the report itself, that is to say, the State Office did not refer, and we pointed out in the HDZ Club at the time when the Nature Protection Act was adopted, it is a provision under which the Croatian Parliament of Nature Protection Act authorised the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can prescribe a regulation to establish one, preferably one or more institutions that could unite the management of national parks in the Republic of Croatia. More specifically, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, it is possible to establish at the Nature Protection Act a single agency which would then carry out the tasks currently carried out by 8 public institutions operating national parks in the Republic of Croatia. We are then, and we are now arguing that this is not a good provision that the Croatian Parliament should lay down the way by law, the establishment of the management of national parks in the Republic of Croatia and all protected areas in the Republic of Croatia, and not to leave the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, therefore, be outside the reach of parliamentary representatives, and then even beyond the reach of the Croatian public, determine how to manage national parks and other protected areas in the Republic. This is primarily a matter of law, not government regulations, and I believe that in that part and in this report it should have been more highlighted, although the State Audit Office said there are certain irregularities in the management, but also the management of financial resources, the State Audit Office pointed out and the need for better transparency in the management or use of funds provided in either the state budget or which the public institution is carrying out the activity prescribed by the Nature Protection Act. So, to conclude, the HDZ Club supports this report, but we wanted to highlight in this presentation on behalf of the club certain irregularities which are new legal regulations, which were adopted by the Nature Protection Act, the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Marine Fisheries, to a considerable extent, have violated a good system when it comes to the care of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia, I also said in the section in which a public institution is excluded from the process of issuing local permits on the one hand, on the one hand, that this legal regulation is less protected marine eco system in the national park than in the other part of the sea, and these are the reasons which are important to point out. However, I say we commend this report and expect this revision to be made for other national parks in the Republic of Croatia and other protected areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82558	Replications to the presentation of Branka Martinchev-Juričev, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82559	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. A colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, speaking of this Report on the audit of the tourist communities, you said at one point that you were worried about the headlines in the newspaper today, which says we are in danger of the collapse of the tourist season. True, here's the data from the Makarska Riviera for the 6th month says that somewhere 9% of tourists in the area of Bela, Baska Water all the way there to Graz do... only 26 and 6 thousand tourists. But since this State Audit report on tourist communities has also shown, we have heard that in many places of the tourist community these systems are not actually dealing with the basic activity but are doing other jobs. And we heard from you again that the tourist communities are doing their best to attract guests to their places. At this moment prices in the competitive countries of Greece, Spain and Turkey are far lower than in Croatia, and this must have been felt by tourists in the Republic of Croatia. Partly because of the World Cup. But what you've seen well, it's true, these are inspection services that are also announced by the minister and as you said, in fact, that the invasion on the Adriatic coast of 0-24h that act repressively will actually have to sign up for so many fines to fill the state budget, which actually makes one huge damage to the tourist season, and I believe that the tourist communities with that and that kind of thing can't fight. They should serve educationally and not repressively, which will certainly affect this tourist season and we witnessed it during the last tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82560	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82561	Thank you very much. The truth of the first quarter shows that we have a number of overnight stays in Istria 19% less, Dalmatia 19% less, in hotels 12% less and despite these figures we have these threats from the Ministry of Finance. If we do not understand in 15 days what direction our annual tourism is heading, it is possible that at 9 months it will be late to cry for missed figures and nights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82562	Maybe it's the prices, not the inspections. Dwarf twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82563	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. All your remarks must be made out of personal experience because you come as the Mayor of Vodice, who has many times been declared the best tourist town on the Central Adriatic and now has such a tourist reputation. What I wanted to say about tourist communities certainly has great but there are less good ones. But in preparation for the season I think there is a key person there and a director of the Croatian Tourist Board and such a person as we know does not exist. We know Mr. Niko Bulić who was our longtime director of the Croatian Tourist Board and what everything seemed to be in preparation for the season among other things. Unfortunately, you've talked about threats, but this is the same threat to everything. So one haughtiness has led to the fact that even the lady who has served as director has left that place because she simply couldn't work, she has no new ones, and I don't suppose there are any friends or neighbors who would hire her, she can't find a deputy finance minister and here we can't find a director or director of the Croatian Tourist Board. And what I was going to say, just one more sentence, in Biograd ten days ago there was a bike's day or about 5,000 Harley Davidsons. In the heart of those three days where the noise of all came out, the inspection, one of the inspections, closed two facilities because they had over 2 or 3 decibels of more played music. They've charged the fines of 12,000 kuna. And these same people, the two objects in a series that they had employed ten waiters who would work the season. And now I'm asking you what kind of message everything is. [[Thank you. Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82564	Don't ask, rephrase, not what your colleague had in basic exposure. Branka Juričev-Martin's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82565	Thank you very much. Since March, here we have been for almost four months we do not have a director of the Croatian Tourist Board. The question arises whether we need such a person if we can function and enter the season without one such important person. I wonder if anyone will answer for this and whether the fall of nights and the number of arrivals, or worse promiscuation at this time that could not be done since we do not have the main person to answer and to bear sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82566	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82567	Thank you very much. You said in your debate, i.e. You mentioned today's headline of a daily newspaper that says we're going to have a crash of the tourist season. I see it as a warning because the article itself suggests that the Ministry of Tourism is not wrong, but that the sky is wrong, meaning rain. When it rains, there are no tourists in Croatia, unlike other countries. So it's going to be around that segment and it's going to be developing this story. Because yet, with its two moves this year, the government nominated itself to be responsible for the possible collapse of the tourist season for the first time since something was made that no one expected and especially not tourist workers. First raised VAT to catering services and accommodation from 10% to 13%. It's their political decision, they took it as they said about 300 million kuna themselves, so much more to the state budget. And the other one was even more unreasonable and that's the famous fee for using the water they raised by 110% from 1.35kn to 2.85kn per metre cubic. Only camps in the Republic of Croatia and hotelers made it clear that they lost 200 million kunas with such a move. It's 500 million kunas that the government wanted to take away from the caterers and then you can imagine how much investment potential in the content and tourism could give birth to those 500 million kunas. Now they don't have them, they have to compensate for the loss like those who want to do business positively, they've raised the cost of accommodation. What's happening to us? We haven't learned anything about raising the VAT from 23 to 25% now we're incomeing less. Now we're going to see on these 10, on the 13 that we're going to get less. But who should we warn when here in the tourist community is no one. We don't have the first man, it's a roof and then you can think of how it works at lower levels. You know how it works when you don't have a leader. And I'm afraid we'll be late at 10 months. But the government will bear political responsibility for making two wrong moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82568	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82569	Well, my colleague, if it's all our fault for last month's failure, I'd say last year's success is due to the sun and the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82570	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82571	Thank you very much. My colleague Yurichev, I don't know why you're afraid of the Ministry of Finance. So tourists who should come to Croatia don't know about the Ministry of Finance inspectors. I guess you like the one who rents apartments and apartments or does catering services, why you're afraid of the Ministry of Finance if you're doing the right thing, if you're working in a regulated state, by law, etc. There's no reason to be afraid. Well, the tourists from abroad won't come because they've heard there'll be inspections at sea. That's no reason, an objective reason. Secondly, when you talk about the need to examine the Household Tax Act, I would gladly examine it and change it. Namely, when I come to Vodice to the apartment or to Vir where I have a house, I have to go to a tourist community and apply there, pay 9 kuna per day, per person, me and women 9 kuna. And when you come to your apartment in Zagreb, which is also in the tourist class for 15 days, 20 days in summer, you do not have to pay the tourist tax. And I have a house in Slavonski Brod and I have a house to live in on Vira. Why do I have to pay on Vir, and when you come to Zagreb to your apartment or house, you do not have to pay, although Zagreb is a tourist resort, it is a very tourist place. It has the largest number of tourists and overnight stays from all places in Croatia and cities. And what I agree with you, which is a change in the marketing development plan that the private agency for the Croatian Ministry of Tourism is working with, which has paid more than 4 million kuna to make the Croatian tourist community a DMO, destination management organization. This will be much clearer to foreigners and to any DMO from the Croatian Tourist Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82572	Thank you. Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82573	Thank you very much. Well, a respected colleague is not a tenant, so I have no fear as renters, but as a guest who comes to Croatia I would be afraid because the only guest who comes to Croatia can experience a neat winter vacation in one of the hotels in Croatia, so when he goes to take a bath one day, he comes back and waits for the suitcases at the door of the same hotel, that he has no idea why. It is the only thing a guest in Croatia can experience, and do not think that it was not written outside and in foreign magazines. As for this, why the fear of inspection, no fear, but you have to see it, when the biggest speck, the most guests on the pike come two with black bags and they want to stop production, I would say. ... True, true, and then the owner and two waiters have to deal with that inspector. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let them do surveillance, let them do it in the morning, in the evening, discreetly, not so that all the guests on the peck must feel that there is a general danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82574	On behalf of the SDP club, colleagues Mario Habek and Domagoj Hajdukovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82575	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The State Audit Office carried out a financial audit of the tourist communities and Croatian tourist communities, tourist communities of the county, the Tourist Board of the City of Zagreb, tourist communities of cities, 4 tourist communities of municipalities and 3 tourist communities of the area and the Institute of Tourism. The audit covers financial reports and business reports for 2012. The financial audit of tourist communities identified some irregularities and shortcomings in individual tourist communities related to work and internal organisation, internal control system, strategic annual planning, financial reports, accounting business, income and expenditure. In the case of a detour and internal structure, the supervision of the conduct of the tourist community's activities should be established at least twice a year and the submission of reports to the Assembly on the work of the Supervisory Board and the Tourist Board at least once a year in accordance with the provisions of the laws, as well as the adoption of internal acts in accordance with the regulations. In the internal control system, it is also necessary for the Supervisory Board to carry out operations and for the tourist community to establish clear business procedures in order to ensure the preconditions for an effective internal control system. All tourist communities need to adopt strategic documents in accordance with the law, and they need to build in strategic documents the common objectives of the tourist communities prescribed by law and the objectives that are specific and important for the tourist community in view of the area in which it is established. Tourist communities must adopt annual work programmes and annual financial plans in accordance with the provisions of the law, and must also draw up financial reports and record business events, keep business books. It is also evident from the audit that there is a problem with the collection of income from membership fees. The Ministry of Tourism and Tourist Communities must take measures and activities to improve cooperation with the Tax Administration or supplement the fee-related gaps that will ensure timely data and effective payment of membership revenues. The same goes for the payment of the residence tax. The State Audit Office estimated that most of the tourist communities were effective in carrying out planned tasks and activities because they carried out most of the planned activities or tasks of their competence and organised and participated in the organisation of different events with the aim of developing new tourist products and promotion of tourist products and destinations, as well as in developing development plans for tourism in their fields. It is also estimated that tourist communities have taken action to develop new tourism products and offer interesting and attractive events. The State Audit Office estimates that funds have been raised from residence fees and tourist membership fees from the budget and other sources used in accordance with the annual programmes of the work of tourist communities and for the achievement of business objectives and that cooperation with local units has been established. The State Audit Office carried out a financial audit of the business of the Institute for Tourism for 2012. For the purpose of collecting audit evidence, legal regulations, internal acts and documentation and information on the operations of the institute have been examined and analysed. The functioning of the internal control system and the consistency of the application of laws, regulations, rules of procedure, procedures, decisions and other internal acts with a view to determining the regularity of operations has also been assessed. The audit report shall contain data on the Institute, the 2012 audit, the assessment of the efficiency of the institutes in carrying out the tasks set out in the regulations and work programme and of course opinion. On the basis of the verified documentation relating to the implementation of the activities of the projects and the Institute of Tourism, the State Audit Office estimates that the Institute was effective in carrying out the planned tasks and activities, as it carried out most of the planned activities or tasks under its jurisdiction. In view of the fact that the Institute has carried out most of the planned activities and tasks, their impact is described and numbered indicators, that the Institute has developed a monitoring system for the implementation of the projects, that is to say, established indicators for monitoring the implementation of the assigned tasks and activities, i.e. the achievement of the objectives of the State Audit Office estimates that the use of the Institute’s resources has achieved the expected effects and objectives. The audit also expressed its conditional opinion on the application of Articles 7 and 14. Regulation on the basis of the financing of research institutes. As regards the assessment of the effectiveness of spending on state budget and own revenue, the State Audit Office estimates that the funds have been used in accordance with the Institute’s annual work programme and for achieving the objectives set. The findings of the audit identified irregularities in relation to the distribution of revenue in individual market projects. The Institute of Tourism implemented a new procedure for monitoring market projects in accordance with the regulations, the basis for funding of scientific and research institutes, following the budgetary supervision and the findings of the Budgetary Control Sector of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. All revenues from the Institute’s market projects for 2012 and 2013 were distributed to the Institute as prescribed by the said Regulation, which likely removes any irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82576	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Chief State Auditor. In my debate, I will refer to the report on the audit of nature conservation, biodiversity protection and the management of national parks. In recent years, we have witnessed a trend, a trend to talk a lot about reducing biodiversity due to various adverse influences, the main generator, that is, the cause of human activity. The stage of the mentioned biodiversity in the Republic of Croatia is extremely high. As you yourself know the pure geographical diversity and conditions of this diversity of our country, so also the lowland, mountainous, coastal Croatia, the sea Croatia, or our aquarium, karst landscapes, Rijeka and others are abundantly rich with a different flora and fauna often intact with a jewel such as is not in the rest of Europe. National parks are one of the ways to protect nature, i.e. biodiversity. As we all know, national parks are areas where every economic and other human activity that can disrupt the mentioned biodiversity is prohibited. The specificity of this report, as Mr. Chief State Auditor mentioned, is the fact that the State Audit Office signed an agreement with the Supreme Audit Institutions of Denmark, Norway, Poland, Ukraine and Lithuania on the joint audit of national parks. The Republic of Croatia has 8 national parks of which 4 were covered by this revision, namely Krka National Park, Kornati National Park, Paklenica National Park and Mljet National Park. Three were the objectives that auditors set for themselves, which is one to assess the relevance of the legislative and institutional framework for nature conservation and biodiversity protection in national parks. Then assess the effectiveness of competent authorities and regularity in implementing conservation measures, i.e. nature and biodiversity protection. And under three, evaluate the efficiency of management in national parks. In addition to those national parks, the audit entities were also the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection and the State Nature Protection Institute. The audit findings are as follows: As regards the legal framework, the audit found that our legal framework is in line with European legislation. However, the Nature Protection Act did not fully regulate the protection and preservation of nature and its values. Here's one example. For example, the Marine Fisheries Act does not apply in protected areas, which ultimately leads to the fact that the aquariums of national parks are actually less protected from where the Marine Fisheries Act applies. It is also one of the problems of national parks that can be undermined as general spatial plans that often do not cover the total surface area of national parks. As far as the institutional framework is concerned, it is well designed, but sometimes insufficiently effective. Here's a colleague from HDZ who said something about it before me. The most common cause is the lack of employees and infrastructure. As for protection and biodiversity in national parks and nature, they differ from one national park to another. There's a lack of measures somewhere, they're appropriate, even good ones. This now depends on the very national park, its history, and its administration. What I would particularly underline here and what is somewhat worrying is that revenue from EU funds and bilateral co-operation is relatively modest in the total revenues of national parks. This is something, it is an indicative problem that will have to change in the very near future, but it is often linked to the fact that in preparation for the EU's accession, therefore which does not last the term of office of this government, we have not been well prepared to maximise the effect of withdrawal, i.e. the benefits of participation, or withdrawing funds from European funds. And I would say, in conclusion, that this revision is special to the fact that it has an international character and so we have an objective revision with useful recommendations that can be implemented to improve the work of national parks and the entire legislative structure regarding nature and the environment. It is also indicative that this report has also received unanimous support on the Committee, and in particular I would like to underline that part of the recommendations for improving the system of protection of nature from reports and implemented, i.e. some recommendations have been respected and are already being implemented in practice. Accordingly, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82577	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Nancy Tyreli and colleague Nenad Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82578	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected chief state auditors with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian Labourists will accept this Report on the revision of tourist communities and the Institute of Tourism because we consider the revision as such to be the basis of Article 7. The law on the State Audit Office was made exactly the way it should be done. The data is correctly provided, the State's audit is an independent body, we believe what's been done. And now if we're going to discuss this report as a report it should be all and we would conclude this debate that the report is as good as that. Now there's a problem if we're trying to answer the question of what's really a revision, and why is the revision doing? It can be concluded that the revision is a type of control which controls the business of certain legal entities as such to determine the facts and to determine the working procedure, i.e. the non-work in a particular legal entity. If that's how we set things up, then control is what we've heard today and tax oversight in another legal entity. And just when we're reading all the State Audit reports, we're asking the same question, why are some people doing management work in a state-run firm or in some public institutions when the State Audit does not respond to work irregularities and those people who invest their money, their knowledge, respond in every way possible? For example, in the Law on the State Audit Office in criminal provisions there is a fine of 20 to 50 thousand kuna for the infringement of units of the state sector of local and regional self-government or other legal persons if it does not make available to the authorised State auditor the necessary documentation, documents, reports and everything else. In the case of a legal entity, this is treated as a serious offense and the penalty is from 20 thousand to 500 thousand kuna. So, for the same offense. With the State Audit, a legal representative can pay the highest fine of between 5 thousand and 10 thousand kuna, but the owner of a private company, the craft must pay up to 50 thousand kuna for the same offence. In late 2012, tourist communities showed demand and obligations and the audit found that most of the tourist communities did not show demand for tourist membership fees and residence tax claims, so the amounts indicated are not realistic. These two obligations, i.e. those two claims in the tourism community's revenues, amount to almost 90% of the income. If we are reading financial reports and we are saying that the revision is a tool to determine the actual situation, that we can do quality projections of a future period, and that based on these audit reports, we should be able to determine in which direction the law, the new Law on Tourist Communities, which are the problems facing the tourist communities, would be able to make better changes to the existing law so that things start to happen. However, we read from the report that the indicators are false in financial reports, which can be concluded that we cannot do any further analysis because we have nothing to do. Why do tourist communities unreally express their business? Do they have to comply with all accounting standards as well as any other legal entity operating in the territory of Croatia? Yeah, we should. But because they don't do business, nothing happens to anyone. The only person who's going to be in a situation like this when he doesn't respect accounting standards is the entrepreneur who's going to pay his fine again, either 20 to 300 grand or 20 to 500 thousand kuna. The opinion is that the payment system for tourist membership through the Tax Administration is not good because the Tax Administration only provides a fee once a year to tourist communities. And according to the Law on Tourist Communities, the Tax Administration is obliged to deliver it monthly. So again, we have the culprit for who, whose guilt absolutely no one is responsible for. For example, if tourist communities get a few reports a year, what could they do? Who would then send warnings to those bonds of tourist communities? Tax administration or tourist community? What can they do with those reports anyway? Absolutely nothing. They may possibly read how many claims they have so that, on the basis of these determined claims, they can plan some subsequent events or their next activities. But the charge charged by 3% of the total membership fee is made by the IRS. And so we transfer the ball of responsibility from the IRS to the tourist community. The law said that legal entities must pay membership fees if the legal entity does not pay that membership fee under the General Tax Law again pay some fine of 20 to 300 thousand kuna, but that no one has bothered to charge it for nothing. The success of the manager, the manager, the manager in any segment in today's segment is measured precisely by his ability to be liquid and be solvent. If that doesn't mean he's a bad employer, it means he's a bad manager, so he can't get the salary he gets and here we read that we have a gross salary in the Tourist Board of the City of Zagreb if I'm not mistaken and in the Tourist Board of Croatia gross salary of 46 thousand kuna. So, that's our truth where we are reviewing irregularities and not forgetting that there was no tax administration audit anywhere, so the tax administration didn't do exactly what it was supposed to do under the Law on Tourist Communities, and that should also be stated in that audit report because it is the obligation of the tax administration for which it charges its services. If it charges services, services must be executed, if they are not implemented, then services are not paid because no contractual obligation has been made and this should be a practice that we should implement. These audits as good as they are, as good as they are, I somehow see them as a sizif's job because year by year with every review report we determine the actual state of affairs, we determine that someone does not do their job, we determine that someone who doesn't do his job neatly every month gets paid. And that's what gives a bad message to everyone in Croatia. The last time we had the annual state audit reports, we said that the state's audit must have the obligation to deliver it all to UskoK where it sees certain things don't work. I hope that's what this is about, but we also have to think about the way these people who are subject to the state's audit, who don't do their jobs, we need to find a way to get sanctioned and to get people who know and who are capable and who are not going to break the laws in this way that we're breaking them and we see that we're breaking them right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82579	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is a highly rich and diverse country in terms of natural sights. This claim is supported by the spatial layout of two main spatial categories of nature protection, national parks and nature parks that are equally represented in the coastal, mountainous and Pannonian parts. National parks in the Republic of Croatia have great wealth and diversity, and high levels of value and preservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity, but there are also numerous threats that could affect the existing situation in the future. As protected areas become an increasingly important part of the tourist offer in many countries of the world and so on in Croatia, it is necessary to protect biodiversity and limit the adverse impact on plant and animal habitats. National parks can be the bearers of quality tourist offer and some space, but no area of concentration and accommodation capacity which in some of our national parks shows as a problem. On the other hand, the main function of the nature park is to protect the natural area from a higher concentration of economic activity or excessive construction. It is important that certain forms of economic activity and residential economic construction existed in the area of nature parks before the declaration, unlike national parks. As a result, tourism or other economic activities do not necessarily need to be excluded from the area of nature parks but should be aware of the frameworks that will not destroy the main phenomenon for which protection has been approached. The Republic of Croatia has 8 national parks of which 4 are covered by the revision. National park Krka, Kornati, National Park Paklenica and Mljet. The subject matter of the revision concerns the system of conservation of nature and protection of biodiversity and management in those national parks, and the audit covers the activities of the competent authorities responsible for the conservation of nature and the protection of biodiversity and the functioning of the management system in national parks. The Act on the Protection of Nature as a fundamental law on the protection of nature is not a fully regulated protection and conservation of nature and its value, it is not clearly specified the competences of the institution in the protection of nature and is not provided for sufficient protection of the marine ecosystem in the manner laid down by the Law on Marine Fisheries. Since the Marine Fisheries Act does not apply in protected areas it follows that the protection of the marine ecosystem outside the national park is better arranged than in the area of the national park. Water protection in the area of national parks is not detailed by the Nature Protection Act. The Water Act stipulates that public water good is managed by Croatian waters, which has a consequence of overlapping competences because public institutions manage national parks, and Croatian waters are responsible for water management in the Republic of Croatia. The strategy does not clearly set deadlines, amounts to the necessary means to implement action plans, and does not give a clear overview of the estimated negative impacts and possible consequences on biodiversity and concrete protection measures. Certain spatial plans do not cover the actual area of national parks or do not comply with other regulations governing the protection of nature in protected areas. Internal acts of public institutions operating national parks are not in line with the Nature Protection Act within the prescribed time limit. The institutional framework is well-designed but in practice is not effective enough because of the lack of employees, appropriate equipment, infrastructures to carry out the protection, maintenance and promotion of the protected area and due to insufficient cooperation between the institutions responsible for the protection of nature in terms of exchange of information, documentation and provision of professional assistance. There is a need to employ the necessary number of staff in the Nature Protection and Inspectives Administration under the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection, the Institute for Nature Protection and Public Institutions managed by the National Park. Monitoring or expansion-saving activities are not carried out... species, not invested enough in restoring... trails or regularly implemented education programmes on the need to preserve nature and biodiversity. The audit found that no single ticket collection system was established in national parks, although it was one of the priority actions of the plans set out in the strategy. The protected area is not managed actively enough, except in the area of Paklenica National Park. The existing management plans do not contain clear objectives of conservation of biodiversity, and the basic management documents of the area of specific characteristics, management plan and protection and preservation rules are not in sync with each other as necessary for quality management. The revision also found that the real surface of Krka National Park and Paklenica National Park differ from the spatial plan, and among... to preserve the nature and biodiversity of national parks, unsettled property legal relations in the parks Krk, Mljet and Paklenica are listed. Irregularly built buildings in Kornati and Mljet,...the boundaries of protected areas. In particular, it concerns poor fire protection, so the state audit advises that... fire-cams are placed in Kornati and Krka parks. One of the big problems is funding. In fact, public institutions implementing protected areas are often forced to do business on... basis, and the primary reasons for their existence, nature protection and education are put in the second plan, and the development of tourism and promotions comes first. The reason is that the intention of the State to reduce the number of beneficiaries of the state budget at any cost, so the overrun of the funds from the State Treasury for the functioning of public institutions is increasing. Thus we come to the situation that money from the budget is usually only enough to pay employees' salaries in public institutions of national parks and nature parks, while for concrete projects of nature protection and education of visitors there is no funds. The problem also arises from over-representation of politicians in national parks and nature parks, as well as from the competent culture ministry and its department for the protection of natural values. A greater share of experts in these bodies would certainly make... a better management of protected areas. This is what results from the chance in Croatia that around 10% of the total area of different categories of protection is being protected today. In this context, it is important that the share of national parks as the most famous categories of protection to the total area in Croatia is 1.71%), slightly below the average of undeveloped countries in terms of nature protection. This is precisely what results from Croatia's chance, which compared to the industrially burdened countries of Western Europe, takes up very large areas of intact nature, and it... with an increasingly strong desire and ecological awareness and increased material investment could be protected and saved for future generations, but also in a smart way to offer a limited number of tourists. It must not forget the considerable tradition of nature protection in which Croatia can be measured with much more developed countries. Of the 8 national parks, four have been analysed. The 4 parks employ 302 workers with the highest number of 182 employees in the Krka National Park. The park also has the biggest income from its own activities, 56 to 58 million kunas of income and covers the needs of wage financing. It is similar with the Mljet National Park, which has 58 employees, but the problem is the Kornati National Park, which instead of the overlooked 101 has only 29 workers, and Paklenica National Park has 33 of the intended 72 workers. There is a particular problem with the lack of professional staff and there are only 3 in both parks and there is a problem in Kornati National Park. The insufficient number of employees in national parks and the lack of... between institutions are the main reasons why the state audit estimated that the protection of nature and biodiversity in national parks is only partially effective. The State Audit Office estimated that coordination between the Institute of Public Institutions, which manage national parks, is not satisfactory, especially in planning and monitoring. This should give greater powers than advisory powers in such a way as to enable the Institute to take appropriate measures in the event of insufficient and unquality monitoring carried out in the area of national parks. The institutional framework for nature conservation and biodiversity protection is well designed, but in practice it is not effective enough because of the lack of staff, adequate infrastructure equipment to carry out activities and protect the maintenance and promotion of the protected area and due to insufficient cooperation between institutions... in the protection of nature. Raising overall environmental awareness not only in terms of the spread of protected areas, but also in general with regard to the fight for a better quality of life, is an ongoing requirement set before us by Europe. From all of this, Croatia must engage more resolutely and more adequately in nature protection and in its... in line with the concept of state development. The proposed report will support Croatian Labourists. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82580	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic is a replica of the exhibition of Nansi Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82581	Thank you. Here you are, colleague Tyrelli, pulling a certain parallel between the tax administration's conduct or, say, the work of a state audit on the various ingenuities they have. In the town where I live, in Požega a few days ago, the tax administration found a ticket because they found, of course, what you said, a rush or already how they do, and punished the caterer for finding 32 kuna extra, approximately in a cash register with 30 thousand kunas and 5 days of closing of the place. Regardless of me as a person who has nothing to do with this place, I feel that it is simply disproportionate and I feel uncomfortable with the proportion of weight and treatment and punishment in relation to this offence. So if you pull out all the waiters' wallets and find a cash register and all together... all together, the amount of money for 32 kunas is bigger than what they typed in and one such dragon punishment you give to those people who have that place. And then, for example, when the State Audit finds that one unit of local self-government, administration or some tourist community does not respect the Law on fiscal responsibility for the implementation of the state budget and that, for example, 30% spend on the mass on salaries at the top of the head, we have one conditional opinion, and by the year again, conditional opinion and over the years again conditional opinion. And then, in some ways, we wonder if we are in a way proportionate to ourselves and, say, ourselves to entrepreneurs or to those who are not in a position to be so kindly observed. And in fact, this parallel has made me quite handsome, I must admit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82582	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82583	Thank you, Vice President. Well, your colleague is briefly called a political responsibility, so then we have an audit report to get a conditional opinion, but then voters will punish it, maybe we have financial responsibility, and that's exactly the paradox that we've been talking about all along because it turns out now that those who run the state money, who are just paid by all citizens, all entrepreneurs, all those who make some income or some kind of profit, are mastering that money by a bad master's manor, but absolutely no responsibility at all. And those who invest their money and who really want to incriminate their money in the best possible way pay very large fines because they have damaged the state budget. And now if we were to pull the parallels, which means control, means control is both, but control is treated differently and it causes different sanctions. If we want to talk about a damaged state budget, then I argue that these legal entities where the audit is carried out have much more than 32 kuna surpluses in the cash register, have not closed down their tourist board or ministry, should not have paid 30 thousand kuna fines in order to continue to carry out the same activity within five days, and these are things that lead to unequal treatment, and this is the kind of unequal treatment of each responsible individual, regardless of whether he is working in a state, public or private company.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82584	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82585	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Chief State Auditor with an associate. This debate on the Reports on the audit of tourist communities and the Institute of Tourism, which covers approximately three years, so 2010, 2011 and 2012 developed a very interesting debate. And here in the debate we hear what is not from the domain of the State Audit and what you are neither responsible nor involved. But what's mentioned in this material for these three years is really interesting, and then from this interesting material is developed and such an interesting debate even though it's in these late hours. But I think it would be much better if today, given that this 2014 is a hasty debate on a new financial envelope for agriculture that comes into force in the EU on 1st August 2014 and it is time-consuming by 2020. Unfortunately, here in the Croatian Parliament this topic and this topic will obviously not come on the agenda even though it is very urgent for our peasants and for our Slavonia. For Slavonia, however, it is also good to discuss the tourism communities that have 296 throughout the Republic of Croatia, and 68 were covered by the State Audit. What to say about what it refers to and what laws were important for the criteria, for the assessment of the regularity and efficiency of the business. And then here says the Law on Tourist Communities, the Law on residence tax, the Law on memberships in tourist communities, the Law on catering activities, and then the Regulation on the declaration of tourist municipalities and cities and the sorting of settlements into tourist classes. That's exactly what I said right now, and I was offered the replica that I said to Mrs. Jurič that there really should be a change in the residence tax law because if someone had a property facility, a house for their private needs anywhere on the coast or if they had a house in Zagreb or an apartment in Zagreb, then according to the place of residence in that other facility, you would now pay a residence tax when you came to Rogoznica, Vir, Vodice, Primosten Pirovac or somewhere else. And when this same resident of Pirovac, Primostena, Vodice comes to his house in Zagreb or Osijek or Vinkovce, then he pays nothing in Slavonski Brod, so there is absolutely no obligation to these tourist cities classified also in tourist classes as well as sea places. He says, there you have the sea and the sun, and for that reason, so you have snow in Slavonia, so nothing, God created it, and not one of the people there has even defrocked the Adriatic Sea, etc.. So when we look at too much, then logically, it really doesn't make sense and it needs to be changed. But while it's still being figured out, and as long as it all comes to the brain of those who should think about it, who are in power, it's going to take a long time to pass along the Sava River of Water. When we talk about the Croatian tourist community, then here is the consulting company paid, I will not say on purpose that I do not advertise a name for which it is not a problem to establish the property and ownership shares of those who are the founders and owners of the company, there are 6 who, for this reason, have made more than 4 million kuna through the Ministry of Tourism a marketing plan for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia, in fact a new reconstruction of tourist communities, a new organisation, a new law might also have been passed as a strategic document where they would reduce the number of tourist communities, so at least it is supervised and the story from that marketing plan of tourism development. Then the Croatian Tourist Board, with its already established name known in the world would be called the NTO, so the national tourism organisation, the NTO. And therefore, or destination management organization, DMO. And the county tourist communities would be called RMO, or RMO, so regional management of the organisation. Please let me finish, so raise your plate, replica if you don't think so. So the reconstruction of tourist communities into these names, it's like some kind of newspaper, and that's why we have 4 million kunas spent money, of course it doesn't go into state audit control, that's not what this material says. What it says in this material is that tourist communities make total incomes, for example. in 2012 of EUR 100 million. So 751 million and 346 thousand kuna, which would be approximately 100 million euros. And then we have the tables showing how much the county has to do with tourist communities, which is spent on the money of tourist communities, so the kind of expenditure and the type of income. So it is remarkable that for the material expenditures of the tourist community they spend more than, slightly more than 60%, the costs for employees are about 15, slightly more than 15%. It is clear that the state audit after the supervision was carried out is therefore for 68 or 69 tourist communities, in fact with the Institute of Tourism 69 and then we have unconditional opinions that are expressed for 23 tourist communities. I'm glad he's here amongst them, and for example. The tourist community of Novi Gradiška, which is otherwise known for its activities and works well. And the conditional opinion is the tourist community of Brod Posavina County, which had previously had a conditional opinion, so it remained at the same level as the tourist community of Slavonski Brod, which had the same conditional opinion in previous supervision. The developments were made in the tourist communities of the town of Krapina, Mali Losinj, Nova Gradiška, Osijek, Poreč, Pula, Velika Gorica, so from the parole now they received unconditional opinion which is positive in any case and should be pointed out and said here and for this speaker. Why the reconstruction and the new organisation of tourist communities I do not know, but what the state audit in the existing tourist communities has found on the basis of supervision, which has made recommendations, instructions, so advice on how to do so in order to possibly correct errors and certain mechanisms that are not relevant to the financial accounts that are valid for the tourist communities, clearly that it should be done to ensure that the next assessment of the state audit would not only be conditional but unconditional for the majority if not for all tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia. The report on the review of nature conservation and the protection of biodiversity of national parks can be pointed out that it is quite extensively and descriptively explained all of what these 4 national parks that have been controlled are Krka, Kornati, Mljet and Paklenica of 8 national parks. We also have protected landscapes and landscapes even as a lower level compared to national parks. So let's say that these days I'm getting phone calls and warnings that in one of those protected natural landscapes, in order to say,...in Slavonski Brod, where peasants, warlords, cattlemen, brought their cattle to the pasture, that they are now forbidden to do so for reasons not to mix indigenous varieties that live there with those domestic or breeds that are not indigenous. So it's very interesting that peasants are insolent, they can't push their own way from time to time, but here's a problem that may also result in protests or physical violence against such enforcement of certain laws or regulations, but here I just wanted to point out that there is such a problem. The tax administration, which performs, charges membership fees for members of the tourist community, and then directs it towards tourist communities, is in a similar position as the Tax Administration which collects concessions for mineral exploitation. For example. The Ship-Posavia County, where gravel excavations exist, sand on the Sava River has 0 revenue from concessions for use, exploitation of minerals. Why? Because the IRS did not forward, did not update the collection data and did not send any kunas to the county. So similar is happening here with tourist communities and the Tax Administration a small misunderstanding which I think with ease could be corrected, which could easily be removed, simply to update if it goes through the Tax Administration to simply update the Tax Administration, that it is duty for the tourist community in a given area to report on members and membership fees paid for the tourist community. This year, I think it's not about the State Audit, mainly not about the 2012 and 2011 and 2010 reports. I hope not. We always whine so slightly until it rains in May and it rains in May, then July and August, 7 and 8 months almost compensates for everything that was missed in that May. But here I am, and I hope so, and I think that this year, even though we still can't achieve those results in tourism that have been since 2008 and even before the Homeland War, when the record results of tourism in the Republic of Croatia were set. The HDSB Club will adopt clearly these reports and the audit carried out to preserve the natural protection of biodiversity and the management of national parks, as well as the Report on the audit of tourist communities and the Institute of Tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82586	On behalf of the HNS club, colleagues Goran Beus Richemberg and Boris Blazekovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82587	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a State Audit report that is extremely important. It is extremely important because the system of tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia is irregularly and unconstitutionally revised. How is it possible that the main office of the Croatian Tourist Board, which makes over 30m euros in traffic, is not at all the subject of regular audits of the State Audit. In 2012, when I came as a representative of the Croatian Parliament to the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Tourist Board, I couldn't be surprised that such a large business system (a) is not at all an obligor in the public procurement system, and b) has no external audit at all. And that's how it's been tolerated for years. 20 full years. Everything out there was beautiful and beautiful, with lots of blue and green roses, and with lots of questionnaires spending money. This finding, which is really just a very large pattern of real condition because it includes about 71% of the total income of the tourist community system, so not all, and only the tourist communities in the system is actually a very, very strong alarm, just the opposite of what my colleague Grubisic said, things should change quickly and thoroughly, and that as such they were skeletal and that what was worth in the '90s was no longer simply functionally, does not satisfy neither needs nor spend money in the right way. The Croatian Tourist Board and all regional and local tourist communities have 100m euros each year in disposition. 100 million euros. We would nominally say 100m euros for the marketing of Croatian tourist products. That's far from true. Unfortunately, in direct marketing, the branding of our product goes according to my assessment which can only be rough because we don't have the right data because the State Audit find is not an analysis of such a type, less than half. There's a question of where else is being spent. We see, 14% and some percent nominal in employees' salaries, not much. But we know very well that the system of tourist communities is financing a huge number of completely irrelevant events. 90% of these events have not brought a single guest to the side. These events serve to mark local anniversary, jubilee, local parties, drunks and locals' entertainment. In many cases, the system of tourist communities is nothing more than an honor to exceptions which are very much like a money budget source for local politicians who indirectly aliminate their pre-election promises from these sources and equally for the engulfing of politically similar people. There are too many cases of employment in local tourist communities exclusively according to the political criteria and the settlement of certain obligations to some parties, whether to some other colleagues, friends to debtors, or to those to whom they are owed. We can pretend that the system is great, wonderful, functional. Yes, in most cases. And that is why because of those who are doing well, who have a good mission, who are holding it, who are doing well in material and financial accounting, strategic planning, in creating new products, in branding, in actual marketing actions, the system needs to be reorganised, to become dominant, to conduct and dictate all trends, and to create space for these hundreds of millions of euros or more in future to be spent in a truly meaningful way, and that is the promotion of Croatian tourism product. It was regional, therefore within the Croatian, national or international market. I'd like to warn my colleagues who followed the cover of today's daily newspaper don't do that. The bomber's title doesn't fit the text content at all, and under two, it's not a good message because it doesn't mean anything. 12 or 13% less nights in May is nothing. That makes up for one day of August. Remember last year's situation, mourning, mourning. The newspapers announced the collapse of Croatian tourism until 5.7 last year. What happened? It happened exactly the opposite. Do we need the German newspaper to publish tomorrow the information that Croatian parliamentarians announced the collapse of the season in Croatia this year? Is that what we need? Let us be responsible for our word. Do we need the competition to take advantage of us? The more the real data tells us about increasing the number of arrivals, the more it is in line with the trend sought by the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy, which is actually crying out all the time not counting nights, counting guests, or arrivals, and how much money they left because it must actually be a strategic commitment to relieve the high season. We have terribly burdened the coastal part of Croatia in the high season with the number of visitors, the consumption of local resources, the exploitation of infrastructure, and it is very difficult to endure in many tourist places that grow overnight, or during the highest season and three times compared to the number of inhabitants, some even more. For many, it is not a sustainable development of tourism, but it would be much happier, and we would all be much more satisfied together to extend the tourist season and to have moderate crowds as long as possible, or more months of the year, and not just in the peak months. This report shows that the Croatian Tourist Board needs serious changes. He is wrong, his colleague Grubisic, when he is here, in fact, adding to nothing justified the thesis that the main office of the Croatian tourist community will be renamed tomorrow as a national tourist organisation. It's a misunderstanding. This is about status and roles. Therefore, the main office of the Croatian Tourist Board should have become a national tourist organisation long ago. He is, indeed, but the problem is that he has to perform a whole series of other functions that are not his job. These jobs that are really extra in the main office because the Croatian Tourist Board at that level should and should only be engaged in the promotion of Croatian tourism products abroad should be transferred to regional level, the structures that are now called county organisations, or county tourist communities should be strengthened. There's going to be a merger somewhere to get a stronger regional brand. And it actually needs to capitulate these structures to be project holders who can qualify for European funds tomorrow. That's what this is about. So it becomes this so-called. Remo, and everything else to actually turn into organizations that will create and brand local tourist offer and products. As for the inspection mentioned, it has nothing to do with this subject, although some of the surveillance of the State Audit may also be interpreted as part of a repressive approach. No, it's not, but I agree. It is necessary to change completely the paradigm of the functioning of inspection services in Croatia, but this is neither the State Audit Act nor the Law on the Croatian Tourist Community, nor any law relating to tourism. It is actually a matter of all the laws that touch the action of inspections in Croatia. How to change the paradigm? The basic question must never be that the task of inspection is to find a failure, but not to find it, which means that there has to be a procedural way that helps, warns, less punishable, and then reciprosts hardly punish or prevents them from working. When we change that model of function, then the inspectors on the ground will do exactly that. Until then, unfortunately, they were sent to find a problem, and thank God it is not difficult to find especially when they are crowded. And it creates a bad picture, I agree, a bad practice. But let's not kid ourselves, there's nothing different about us competing countries where it doesn't occur to anyone that in the middle of the season two-thirds of their traffic doesn't report at all. And last year, we saw in the introduction of a fiscalization system that was precisely the case in the very shouts of restaurants in the Adriatic. As regards the CNS, the HNS supports this report, and I repeat, it warns that this report is a very good reason to approach rooted changes and that we are actually asking the Ministry of Tourism to take what is in the form of a principle on the basis of which it would like to go to changes in the system of tourist communities as soon as possible to translate into a working document, to draft a law to present it to the public, to hold a debate with the public interested on the basis of concrete text and concrete solutions, and then to receive a proposal for a first-reading law in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82588	Madam Vice-President, Mr Klešić and his associate, I will speak clearly about this second report by the State Audit Office on the implementation of the review of nature conservation and the protection of biodiversity and the management of national parks. I'll try it in time and do it. By reading the relevant report, we at the HNS Club have come to the following conclusions. First, the beauty of nature and biodiversity in Croatia are the most beautiful gift that we, as citizens of Croatia, have ever been able to get by birth and they make our lives much more beautiful, and the conditions of life much better. Secondly, the beauty of the Croatian environment is an integral part of the personal identity of every Croatian citizen and therefore its value is simply immeasurable. The beauty of nature and biodiversity make Croatia one of the most beautiful countries in the world. Thirdly, preserving the beauty of nature and biodiversity in Croatia are Croatia's chance for a different view and attitude compared to changes in the paradigm of development towards green technologies, healthy food and clean industries. Fourthly, biodiversity, beauty of nature must not be seen exclusively through the eyes of increasing the number of tourists and developing the tourism economy. Protecting the preservation and revitalisation of biodiversity of natural beauty must be primarily in protecting it itself and in order to raise the quality of life of the citizens of Croatia and of our descendants. However, tourism is not and must not be the priority branch of the economy, it is the god-day branch of the economy, which is only the cream on the cake of a successful economy. But that's another topic. The fifth, thanks to the long-standing desolation and indevelopment of unclean industries and devastation activities, Croatia today has an enviable level of protected environment and the preservation of biodiversity. The sixth, Croatia still fails to protect its natural beauty and biodiversity systematically and fully, even in national parks and nature parks, let alone in unprotected areas. Seven, some Croatian areas of our human intervention have been dramatically devastated and urgent and uncompromising actions are needed to save them. And eight, by entering the EU, Croatia has been given an additional opportunity, a chance to protect its environment, natural and cultural beauty and biodiversity more effectively and to develop those sectors that are sustainable and will benefit from environmental protection. It is not worse mentioned that Croatia has, already said, 8 national parks, 11 nature parks and 2 strict reserves. And these are national parks Brijuni, Kornati, Krka, Mljet, Paklenica, Plitvice Lakes, Risnjak, North Velebit, and the parks of nature are Biokovo, Kopački ass, Lonjsko polje, Medvednica, Papuk, Telaščica, Velebit, Vransko jezero, Učka, Žumberak, Samoborsko gorje and Lastovo islet. The strict reserves are the Hajduk and the roscan hips and the White and Samarska Rocks. Only Croatian national parks cover about a million square km of surface area and it is about 1% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. Total protected areas account for 8.7% of Croatia's surface area. National parks and nature parks are distributed throughout Croatia, from Slavonia via central Croatia to Istria, Primorje, Like and Central and Southern Dalmatia. A number of other unprotected areas of Croatia are also highlighted by endemic species, biodiversity, unique natural phenomena and an unusually beautiful landscape. This report is limited to the revision of nature conservation and the protection of biodiversity management in only 4 national parks. The audit was carried out 18 months, from October 2012 to March 2014. According to the Nature Protection Act, the national park is a vastly unaltered area of land or sea of exceptional and multiple natural values. It includes one or more preserved or slightly modified ecological systems, and is primarily intended to preserve the original natural landscape values. All plant and animal species in the area of the national park are protected. In October 2012, the State Audit Office signed an agreement with the High Audit Institutions of Denmark, Norway, Poland, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Lithuania on the joint audit of national parks. The Agreement shall agree on a coordinated review and draw up a joint report on the audit carried out on the basis of a report on audits carried out by each of the Supreme Audit Institutions. On the basis of the national reports on audits carried out, a report containing joint findings and recommendations will be drawn up to improve the management and protection of biodiversity in national parks. Now I will skip what we thought about the legal framework, the institutional framework, and I will say that the final assessment of the State Audit Office, and it is said by Mr., well, the head of the office, Mr. Klesic, has already said it, which is that by accepting and implementing recommendations in the system of nature conservation and biodiversity protection in national parks, would improve protection and enhance the effectiveness of that protection system. And I think it's one of the most important sentences, and the recommendations are numerous. It has already been said that the revision was made according to the standards of the international organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions, Europeans in agreement with Denmark, Norway, Poland, Ukraine, Bulgaria and Lithuania's audit institutions. The data or results of the report are internationally standardised, the methodology of production and collection and in results. All our national parks have been managed as public institutions in the management of the Ministry of Environment through the Nature Protection Institute, which, with the rest, conducts expert supervision of public institutions. And another, it should be noted, is that until the arrival of this coalition government that national parks and parks of nature were under the authority of the Ministry of Culture. As they came to power, they came to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. At the end of another data, according to data from the Institute since October 2013, about 39 200 properties, species and sub-classes, the assumed number is significantly higher, amounting to between 50 and 100 thousand. This indicates insufficient research by the Croatian flora, microflores and fauna. For example, 5636 plant properties, 7800 animal properties, 246 species of nesting birds, 153 species of freshwater fish, 452 species of marine fish, but their assumed number is significantly, significantly higher. According to data from the Institute despite the high value of nature in the Republic of Croatia, the high value of nature in the Republic of Croatia and many of its components are extremely endangered. And in conclusion, Croatia is generally known in natural beauty as one of the most beautiful countries in the world. In addition to the nature of beauty and biodiversity, the uniqueness of certain types of flora and fauna, Croatia is also too rich in cultural heritage. All this together continues in the position of eternal guardians of the above values for our, for our descendants, for Europe and the world, and in its fullness of the above mentioned beauty and healthy life we modernists and our life in the climate and environment is one of the best quality in all. And that is why we need these audit reports to be included in the process of improving and raising the level of nature protection based on observations and recommendations directly ahead of all of us. The national party of the Liberal Democrats will support that report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82589	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82590	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditor with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues here are exactly 5% of the total number of representatives. Therefore, lately the State Audit Office has been working more and more frequently in certain areas to assess the efficiency of a particular system. Now, we recently had an audit report on income, on the collection of income from local self-government units, today we have these two reports, and that's for every commendation because such audits are actually an excellent basis for detecting problems in a particular system and for solving them precisely with the aim of making it more efficient. Therefore, it is no longer sufficient to conclude only that a particular system works with greater or less irregularities. It is important to know how effective it is, or how much it contributes to the objective for which it is established. Thus, this report on the audit of tourist communities is a truly objective assessment of how effective tourist communities are in carrying out the basic activities for which they are established, which is to promote and improve tourism in the Republic of Croatia. What their cooperation with the founders is, therefore, the units of local or regional self-government and what their effectiveness is in spending the funds collected from both tourist memberships, and from residence tax and from other sources, so that they actually manage public money in tourist communities, because it is all public money. We see from the report that there are a lot of riots in this area. So, if the system was working pretty well, I'd say verse. We also see this by the fact that out of a total of 69 revised tourist communities, only a third of them received unconditional opinion, and even two thirds received a conditional opinion. With an additional problem, the greater number of tourist communities in a row gets conditional opinions. So they practically ignore those recommendations, those advices that you give them and stay working the way they did before. It is interesting to note that in a total of 23 unconditional opinions 15 unconditionally received tourist communities from the continental part of Croatia that are characterised by modest budgets from those tourist communities on the coast, so at sea. And here's this community on the continent, my lords, I would say more rational, more responsible, more conscious, we could even say as much money as possible with more irregularities, but conditionally. The report shows that the efficiency of the collection of revenues from tourist communities is much more problematic than the execution of the expenditure itself, with the fact that for years no more significant measures are taken to make the revenue collection system more efficient. So we're seeing one I'd say chronic thrombus, a commission to collect income. The review made up of the tax administration for 2011 shows that the tourist communities did not charge as much as 49 million kuna of tourist membership, which is almost a third of the potential income from the tourist membership fee. The same situation is true in income from the tourist tax, which is aliminates half of all tourist community revenues. So she is absolutely the most important, primary source of tourism community income. To lose a lot of income here also confirms a comparison of the number of nights' growth data with the rate of income growth from the residence tax. So, tax revenues rise 14% slower than the rate of overnight growth. Where are the problems when we're talking about paying the income? The payment control of income from the tourist membership fee for tax administration and only once a year delivers to the tourist communities reports on payment bonds and charged to the tourist membership. The consequence of this is that the tourist communities do not actually have full insight into the overall debt because they cannot actually identify payment obligations, and for years they are actually not trying to do anything to improve in agreement with the tax administration. It is the same with the payment of income from the residence tax. In 2007, the State Audit Office found that the data on the residence tax claim are not reliable because the claims are recorded differently and, of course, as it always does, suggested to the Croatian tourist community to determine one uniform model of registration of claims at all levels of tourist communities in order to make the data more accurate, more accurate and more up-to-date. This assumption was of course not respected, the problems of the collection remain current, and the Croatian Tourist Board did not establish a unique information system for the management of the list of tourists, so the registrations and their check-in and control of the payment of tourist fees by low-class tourist communities, hence the local information system that was planned and the annual work programme for 2012 so it was not realised so it was transferred in 2013, unfortunately until the end of the year, or when it was done, to conclude this revision. In view of the fact that the business of charging the residence tax since the beginning of this year has been taken over by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the specific customs administration, we have some hope that the charge will be more efficient, or better. When it comes to the expenditures of tourist communities, the biggest problem is the absence of internal acts related to the personal expenditure of employees such as the cost of official travel or pay-offs, and there is very often no internal control, so it is not surprising, therefore it is not an unusual occurrence of high wages. Well, we heard, the biggest gross salary is 46,000 kuna, I just don't think that's appropriate. An interesting relationship is the commitment and demand of tourist communities. The commitments amount to 65 million kuna, and the claims of 17 million, which means that the obligations are actually 3.6 times higher and it is obvious that the tourist communities in one of their rather significant parts are financed in a way that they do not pay, i.e. they do not comply with their obligations to the believers. And to conclude, therefore, this State Audit report actually gives a lot of arguments that a system that is 20 years old should be changed, as counterpart Beus Richembergh said, because this system is dysfunctional, since a large number of tourist communities do not have even established criteria and criteria on the basis of which decisions on the financing of certain projects and programmes are not being made strategic plans for tourism development as assumptions for one targeted, designed development of tourism. One word, one number, especially those small tourist communities in the local community, is their goal. So we need a modern, efficient and one rational organisation of the tourism community system, which will especially respect those tourist communities on the continent, because unfortunately, right now, continental tourism is part of a total tourist offer of only 6%, and we think it has far greater potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82591	Comrade Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82592	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, it's late now, there's only one assembly of the municipal council at least, but we resist. Right away, I'm going to say that I disagree with what my colleague Jelash said, but neither does my colleague Richembergh, because he and I can't agree on anything about tourism. So just this report, some discussions are actually on the trail of an amenation, let's call it the new structure of the tourism community system in the Republic of Croatia, and I'm thinking that a lot of people don't want to understand it, that they've turned it into some sort of, let's call it an accounting service or some kind of service that exists just for the sake of order, that someone out there might get in love, etc. and that this simple system, which should be put on a completely different basis after 20 years, has also been found appropriate names, from destination management, national management and regional management. But good. I personally believe that there is a false perception of this system in the Republic of Croatia, and the figures are also talking about it because the system has been built for years, certain changes have passed, numerous legislative changes and many who do not, perhaps today would like to have a tourism community. And there's a perception that maybe everyone has it under the law and certain legal provisions. So let's see what we got. We have 296 tourist communities and that crown Croatian tourist, every county has it as well as the city of Zagreb, there are 114 cities, 135 municipalities, 15 tourist communities are at the level of a place such as the tourist community of Selce which with its politics, i.e. The destination has a large number of nights and certainly as a local board it managed to establish a tourist community and it is a very, very important segment in the development of its tourism. There are 10 tourist communities in the area and one specificity is the Tourist Board of the island of Krk, which is apart from having a special community, the Tourist Board of the island of Krk. They felt that they needed to join together in one part and take advantage of the opportunity to promote through the common tourist community. And in Croatia we have 568 municipalities and cities, which means 128 cities and 428 municipalities. So the tourist community doesn't have 14 cities, 293 municipalities, and they only have all the county and what I've said is specific. So not everyone in the Republic of Croatia has a tourist community. Income, today we heard 100 million euros, 750 million kuna. Right away, we're all being tickled and we're all trying to find out what this whole thing is doing wrong, what's wrong with the book or not respecting certain legal obligations. The Croatian tourist community has a third of 256 million kuna in accordance with the law. We see from the report some have received conditional opinion, as well as municipalities and cities, and we may, at some point, come to the conclusion that certain units of local self-government must be abolished, since they too do not respect all the legal provisions as they should. At some point, maybe the ministry, we're gonna bring everything to the table with stories like this, and I'm not really into pausals and pausal evaluations, especially when people who don't have much to do with tourism do. So we're high-ranking and we're taught lessons about how to treat tourism and tourists, and we heard today in front of a club that's not good. And what does the president of the Parliamentary Tourism Committee do? promotes a new strategy that should be organised by tourism communities because this system says it is outdated. He's 20 years old. Do other countries have tourist communities or are they more specific than us, are they better than us? So let's look at the number of nights, that's what we all add up and count all the time. France 405 million, Spain 386 million, Italy 363 million, Germany 353, England 319 million overnights, Croatia 64 million. We had 67 million overnights in 1985. It means that we have not reached the number from that time in 1985 with that system of tourist communities. So aren't they the most important segment, let's say in that count of the night? I don't think so. Should every year the tourist communities bring all tourists to the Republic of Croatia? Well, that's all the wrong stuff to do, which is what we're talking about. So we know what marketing is, what a story is, what they need to deal with, and what a hoteler camp, private accommodation and everything else. Why are they saying that? Well, because there's a intention that a system that's been built for 20 years has suddenly changed because some consultants on the side have said about the great money that we need to change in that policy. That's why the director of the tourist community was removed, she's gone today because she didn't want to agree to what they imposed on her and it's a public secret or what? Because we've come to this here to be watched by Bundestag here. What do you think Mr. Richembergh tells us? To look at us in the Bundestag, and if we're talking about what's written in the newspaper, there might be a reduced number of tourists from Germany. And there's nine of us here. Imagine that debate that's looking so far away and it's so important. Has anyone dared to write that that's the season? Bad season? And those who are not at all with tourists are giving us lessons, and the season is bad, that in the pre-season today you walk on the coast and you won't meet a tourist. There are no Germans anywhere, no Austrians, we have something from other markets in Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland. What happened? That's the question, what happened? How do we explain it? The guilty are holidays, sometimes before the Ghosts, the Body's sometimes later. Easter was before so it was later, so it depends on these holidays and we're a little bit more filled in at 4th, 5th at 6th month, but everyone's counting nights, that's the only measure of success in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Is that a tradition? Now they'll go... the borders of the Republic of Croatia will welcome us there, so there'll be someone waiting for you at the harbor, you'll be sharing certain items, brochures. It's all some kind of folklore that started in the 20 years of the new state, where success and failure are measured. It's completely wrong. Everyone's talking about profit today. We needed 67 million overnights to make less than last year, or it took 60 to make more money, that's the question now? Are journalists the ones who don't have maybe anything to write, so here we found tourism. But it's not the most basic thing that bothers us, it's this story about tourist communities and new thinking through a non-quality public debate that's written on five pages with completely wrong directions, where our professions and we don't have a wide public to consult, and we see how many of these people live and work for that tourist community, so that they too wonder what you think about it, but we have a ready solution that we're going to impose. It won't work. No one wants regional management, they don't want it if they're experiencing centralised, they're experiencing it by centralised, and you can tell them whatever you want. Where's that foothold for that? It doesn't exist. On the other hand, you introduce it through certain regional structures in many other segments, etc. And when these people rebel, they start to get told about something else. You're a failure, it's a bad tourist season. So what's the mission of the tourist community anyway? To record the number of guests in a destination, to help those involved in tourism register it. What's left? They're sharing tourists, so they're not agencies. What's their mission? They have their own mission and they respect it neatly. The law gave the mayors, mayors, mayors the opportunity to be presidents of tourist communities, and they do so. They objected that they had no influence on these bodies, that they had previously been out of their reach, and were responsible for the communal editing of places, for the content that was happening, etc. So now they've brought them in. What's the problem? Are we going to move them out of all this now? Will small municipalities, cities still have to worry about the municipal part, edit it, design stories, events, etc., and what will destination management do? These are all stories that need to be exposed because it is evident that when something is desired, especially these two years, we have witnessed that very easily some system is being activated or made worse. And when something's wrong, it needs to be changed. We claim that this system is not bad, that it may need to be upgraded but not by force and not by any imposition, but by a broad and good debate. And no one will blame us for the sky or the rain or the snow because there are no tourists. The guilty will be alone and the government has taken political responsibility this year with two false moves that it can also be politically guilty of fewer tourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82593	Thank you very much. We're just reminding ourselves of the review, not the tourist communities. Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82594	Well, colleague Boric, you've told us well, especially about Bundestag, what a colleague of the HNS said about watching us Bundestag, he doesn't look at us as a Parliament, but he looks at executive authority and gives instructions to his tour operators what they need to do. And speaking of which, you know what kind of instructions they give them now when contracts with foreign tour operators are signed and this is done as you know in the 6th, 7th and 8th months and prices are formed and contracts are signed for next year. This ministry finally sold one patent and taught some strangers, and you know what? That the contract would subsequently be signed by an annex to the price change contract in the event of a tax change. Because those who deal with and live on tourism are seriously concerned and living on tourism think about us and the current government and the ministry and how much trust they have and all of what we are talking about here is the confidence and constant rise of taxes that have been translated into this contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82595	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82596	I agree with my colleague, Jerolimov, because we need to look at what's happening to us and why we are more expensive this year than last year. We're more expensive because we've changed the rules of the game over the year. So when you start negotiating next year and that's already for next year, you from 1.1 as we changed this year raise the VAT from 10 to 13%. And of course no one listens to the caterers, tourist employees because it's all justified. Word is, I already said today it's working 500 million kuna we've cut by so much, by a few billion investment potential in content. We now have to have some content in this pre-season, not just the sun and the sea, but additional content that we can offer to the guest who, if it's already raining that something can be offered him. Unfortunately, that's where we're deficiting. And instead of helping and insisting on that, we raise the VAT, for the benefit of the state budget. And the result will come out at the end of the year, you'll see it's not in vain why something wrong is happening. And when you warn that, when you warn people not to raise that water-use fee, because it's camps that are the largest water consumers 200 million kuna less then they tell us here that the government has taken off the parafiscal burdens. And only this one imposition ate more money to all the hosts in the catering than was released on all the others that were abolished. ... And then how do you explain it to those who don't want to understand? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are then, try those who live with tourists every day and these are tourist workers and now, of course, people who live with them, especially private renters who know how much effort they have to make and that only one mistake is enough for you to lose that guest permanently. And being constantly focused 100% on the pleasure of a guest isn't easy at all. And that's why this system was good and built for 20 years and unfortunately today we're in season and we don't even have the first man of the tourist community. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82597	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82598	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'd like to do. I'd like to fight my colleague on where we are and who's listening. It is unfortunate that we are talking and suggesting tonight what would be good to change in the system of tourist communities, which should change in our tourism and that no one from the Ministry of Tourism or from the Croatian Tourist Board sits there. As we talked about the State Budget Report there was the Minister of Finance, he answered all our questions and our suggestions. I'd say it's another confirmation that tourism is happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82599	But we're discussing our colleagues on the State Office Report, and the proposer is present here. But the fact that we're expanding the debate is another pair of freaks. ... Josip Boric, answer to the line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82600	Comrade Yurichev, you might get the impression that... But I'm still seeing it as one organised activity that's been put together, which may have been needed in this time of small changes but not a revolution that's been offered to us for 2.5 years in all parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll just mention the privatisation of the tourism sector, I've been talking about it for two years. Non-transparent in one suspicious way with false data someone has already been eliminated in the first round and cannot compete in the second round. It's a disaster for me, just some of the chosen ones are allowed to offer something somewhere. There's a whole system being sold somewhere, somewhere in a hotel because they're in some kind of loss and they're state-owned companies. Tomorrow it's going to happen to us with the tourist community, someone wants us to, let's say, now we've recorded that something doesn't work right, someone doesn't have an internal structure or there's no internal control system, suddenly the system doesn't work, everything needs to be changed. And, of course, immediately come up with a consultant who needs to come up with this, should pay for it, and then it needs to be passed into the law and then the work is done. And then when we all start sobering up from what we've done, it's already too late. That's why it's good to warn in this debate, but let's just say that you're at least calm to yourself. Because we live with tourists and no one can convince me that it's exactly what he's saying and it has nothing to do with tourists. It's living tissue, living body, it's people, they're working with them, and the tourist community is a service to them, and they're paying the tourist community their tourist tax and they've never avoided it, they can't avoid it. It's simple, I can't avoid it, and that's how laws are laid down. And the tourist community is very important in the life of every municipality and city, and so I say they don't have everyone, and those who don't want to have it, unfortunately they're not destinations, they don't have tourists, and of course they lack one segment of development that others have, and they're in advantage. But let's not ruin it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82601	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82602	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, among other problems you have highlighted, you spoke about quality management and that is exactly what you said, regardless of what this review report is, I somehow think that this revision should also enter the Institute of Tourism and some other also regional institutions that relate to it all together. So in this audit report you ask yourself ok, this is for 2012, unfortunately we always talk about old problems, we leave new ones for 2020, why there is no such thing as the director of the Croatian Tourist Board. So why is it that if we have this Institute of Tourism, and it clearly writes what is its actual scope of business, which is why millions of kunas are given for different studies if quality people are sitting here in these institutes, if they are quality people in the tourist community. However, we don't have a man who's going to have a vision at the top of that pyramid so let's tell the people of my age where everything is being followed, from meteorological advances, and then it's going to be like that, so let's get ready, so we're not getting ready. For example, for these Brijuni small Zmajlović and Lorencin have given 6.5 million kuna to a private consulting firm, but it is also a question of whether the audit will enter, how it is employed, why quality management is among the people who are related to the prime minister and they become retired to go to the director of the national park and not any national small park, none in Croatia is any, this is a large, huge national park and it becomes the best person. It's a question of questions. I also think the revision should give at least one little note and let some other institutions do their job. The other thing...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82603	Comrade, watch the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82604	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82605	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82606	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, the problem is that the most important thing about us is some kind of framework, what it looks like, and the content of it is important to no one. There are countries that don't have the Ministry of Tourism, and they have hundreds of millions of nights. We were in one period also in part of tourism a mixed ministry which tourism was only part of. Now it's an independent ministry. The city of Prague in the Czech Republic 11 million nights, there no one shouts in the rain or in the snow or at anything. Come, look, see, enjoy, be safe and tourism goes. No one there appears either at customs or in any account inspection. You'll find fiscalization is not the most important thing. We've made all of this a philosophy, science. Science. And we're just surprised what's happening to us. We're being threatened by inspectors, so let them come but they have nothing to come by. They've got one car all over the coast. When we warned don't touch the State Inspectorate, here it is, the inspectorate completely unoperative. You don't need to be afraid of inspectorates, you don't need to be afraid. They're not anywhere, they're not coming, they've got one official car, and I can only control something. Let's say the Ministry of Tourism controls your accommodation conditions, and the Ministry of Finance will come to you if you've paid, their inspector will come to see if you've paid your stay tax, your tourist membership fee. There's no telling who's in charge, whether those in finance or those in tourism. Well, that's where it started... so someone arranged a system to start changing some legal proposals and now this should be the end. The new Law on Tourist Communities on the proposal of an outside consultant, who simply the former director of the tourist community refused to accept or do the job with them, and that is why she left and we will discuss it in the 2013 report. Maybe it's not the time because she was still the director, and then we'll discuss it in quality. I think we will because on what is happening in tourism, I say the government will have to bear political responsibility this year because it has made two unpopular moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82607	And Nadica Jelash, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82608	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you've honored me that in my debate, I've been waiting for a doctor without actually being competent. Well, it turns out they're the only ones from the sea, the ones from the continent, by no means. Here I admit that I am not competent for tourism, but there are some things I know about the revision, and here we are now discussing the findings of the State Office for Auditing the Efficiency and Efficiency of the Business of Tourist Communities in the Republic of Croatia. So I don't dispute that tourist communities work, but here the question is how they work, whether they work effectively, whether they have a budget that weighs over 100 million euros. A large number of tourist communities, as the auditors confirmed in their report, are not trying to charge the revenues that are potential to them, which are available to them, which are legally prescribed, and then have an argument that they are not doing anything, according to that people's "how much music", while they do not actually respect the legal regulations until the end, and therefore the auditors had to go from a total number of revised tourist communities 2/3 of them to conditional opinions or conditional findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82609	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82610	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, I have not spoken to you but to my colleague Richemberg who has left, and I have not wanted to replicate him because I say to him as president of the Assembly Committee on Tourism I cannot agree with anything in this story about tourism in this 2.5 year because when an unpopular move is then shut up and never said anything and did not stand up against VAT rising by three percentage points because he finds it justified. But now that there's a system that exists for tourist communities to promote on the side of a new one, then they're going to give us a touch of what needs to be done to make it look nice. And in tourism, it's not very measurable, the work of the tourist community. You can make 10 fairs and get guests from that fair or from that broadcasting market that's the question. So you can do all the activities, you can have the most beautiful TV video per destination or at the level of the Republic of Croatia and ask if you spent the money well. So tourism is a story, a legend, a myth, and do we know how to sell it well along with the sea, the sun and everything else. But, of course, we need all the other traffic, communal arrangements, content and everything else. What should tourist communities do there? Are we going to turn them like we used to be community societies, reserve utility societies? We won't, because that's where they went. Sometimes they were really at that level. There's always something special going on when there's something wrong with the money. Even today, they may be investing somewhere at a level where the local board doesn't have enough money, but it has a budget of two million kuna tourist community. Well, they're certainly going to invest something in municipal equipment, but that doesn't mean it's not bad. Because the law gives them that possibility. They certainly don't work against the law. And when politics said there wasn't enough influence, because the most professional body is the Council of the Tourist Board. Well there are no politicians there, there are all the professional people from tourism, the caterers and very well-known. And there he is now trying to agree to the story of a headmaster passing by. He didn't pass, he didn't like someone, and he didn't pass. Now it's the competition again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82611	Thank you. And the last one to discuss an Anta Jerolimov's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82612	Thank you, Vice President. Here we have heard today that in the Republic of Croatia, apart from the roof tourist community, we have a total of 296 tourist communities, of which 21 at the level of Zagreb County and City, 114 at the level of cities, 135 at the level of municipalities, 15 at the level of the site, 10 tourist communities of the area, and one island tourist community. This revision covered how we heard 68 of them, so somewhere in a quarter of the tourist communities in total. But what is important is that all the county tourist communities as well as the national and Croatian tourist communities are covered. The summary report of the audit, which lasted from October 2013 to April 2014, states, among other things, that certain tourist communities show that the data are not identical in the accounts. As notes with financial reports are not complete, as are irregularly managed cash registers, as donations have not been recorded, and it is messy to pay membership fees and residence fees which are poorly recorded. From all of this, there are no wonders about the results of the audit, which issued 23 unconditional and even 46 conditional opinions, including HTZ and the Institute of Tourism. The document further states that the tourism communities at the end of 2012 had a total of 444 employees with total income of €556.6 million, representing 74.1% of total revenues of all tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia including HTZ. Not wanting to underestimate the efforts of the State Audit Office, which has done a proper job in accordance with its powers and which we support, I wonder how much more important it is today in July 2014 to discuss the 2012 revision of tourist communities while tourism as such is in certain problems unprepared for the season. It is unacceptable for a country where tourism income is 15 and a half percent of GDP that today, therefore, we already have a good season director of the Croatian Tourist Board which our colleagues have spoken of. But we entered the season without a key man in the system. We remember that the senior director left in March after the 2013 Labour Report was rejected, and now the competition for the selection of the new director has been cancelled. Of course, the minister responds to criticism in the media that everything works well, so the question is whether it means that we do not need a director of the tourist community at all if everything works well. Three months went by as a sign of turmoil and staffing, so that eventually the minister would cancel the tender with an explanation of unsatisfactory candidates. And even the absurdity to be worse under the very conditions of the competition was not even required experience in tourism. Does this government have to leave everything to the inert? I am therefore rightly wondering why now to discuss the 2012 revision of the tourism communities when we do not know who is running our entire system in July 2014. I guess we're the only country in the world to name a key person in tourism after the summer season. I guess it's some new strategy of this government and, as my colleague Grubisic said, we may be focusing on winter tourism and skiing. One would think or rather hope that even though tourism will be a bright point, that is, a successful branch of the economy, when everything else in the government's mandate goes downhill, when figures and trends are negative. But no, and that's where our government must have managed to bring a well-arranged and successful system into trouble. I will remind you only short colleagues and colleagues that the government has changed three times in a year between the rate of VAT in tourism, that we have discussed residence fees here, i.e. in the least unclear way of distribution that is unfair to tourist communities but also local self-government, we will remind you that we have taken 35 million kuna from the Ministry of Tourism in 2013. And let us not forget the government's decision to introduce visas to the Russians, tourists of high pay power, and the highlight of what fellow Boric also spoke of both paradox and misunderstandings of tourist activity we have shown by transforming the State Inspectorate in a way that the catering facilities are now controlled by 9 inspectors, while the control of black work is unfortunately often carried out by the Customs Administration. Also, ministers' announcements about the abolition of the county tourist communities and the aforementioned fiasco appointment of the new director of HTZ are clearly reflected, that someone does not think that I have strayed from the topic, are still being maintained on the work of tourist communities as well as on the work of HTZ, as well as the county and city and municipal and local tourist communities. And it's no wonder that in one shaken-and-drawn system, the results of the revision of these tourist communities are not brilliant or brilliant precisely from all these problems that have come across. It is easy for this tourist community mentioned by counterpart Buric, who has 2 million seats, which has 2 million kunas. What about the one who's got 100,000 kunas? There's a little beach to be arranged, a prospectus should be printed, pay some wages at least in summer to those who work there. We need to ask our colleagues and colleagues whether the government and the resolution ministry are making it difficult for the tourist community to work, or whether it directly affects the poor work of tourist communities, and thus also harms the overall tourism and income from it. I don't want to be a bad prophet, and I hope and believe in a successful tourist season, and I want all tourist workers and caterers and all our people who live on tourism to make good money, to fill the state budget. There's probably gonna be something going on in local self-government. But I am rightly criticising the work and approach of this government in terms of tourism, because I am convinced that these moves will make us have a weaker season than we could have, as well as a weaker and more inefficient functioning of tourist communities than we should be in practice. In addition, the data from the State Statistics Office, which rang the alarm, indicate that there were 13.1% less nights in May than last year. Gentlemen, it's past time that the sun and the sea are plenty and that things are left to the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82613	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82614	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the last debate and it's the last replica. Well, after all, I'll replicate my colleague because you're from the island. We heard that one of the problems is really the lack of a person, the key person of HTZ, and now I'd like to suggest here, perhaps Mr. Auditor could put it in some report, for example, for our prime minister to be president of HTZ exclusively in the summer period and for the islands. Because he could really talk affirmatively about islands, especially that is not burdened or how much the road costs to the island, water always has bottles of cold safe with it. It's a fresh air, a fine aria from the sea and truly life is beautiful and beautiful. And then a friend of his could, say, engage during that period while he's head of HTZ to take the prime minister's seat. Because anyway, we don't really feel anything special that he wouldn't be Prime Minister, but here's where he might somehow be able to promote those islands a little bit more. This is really so paradoxical that this way of mine may be a little naughty, but it's really like that, in the people it's just such a perception and there's nothing you can do about it. If we had a director of HTZ, I'd probably warn everyone, and I'll be talking about the islands right now, since you're from the island, too. Indeed, our islands are desirable for life, but providing tourist offer and life on the island is very much. There's a lack of water, you said it yourself in the debates. And besides, I don't owe you any more because I don't have time for what a smart and good HTZ director would react to is talking about how to drill a submarine near our islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82615	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, this has been below every level of debate, indeed. Replication response, Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82616	And good colleague Sumrak probably alluded to the prime minister's statement, so in this context, it may have been that the prime minister said it was better to live on islands than elsewhere, but you know that our prime minister is often incomprehensible and that's not his worst statement. So you saw yesterday on television how he comforted a woman who was in despair about the flood, but good. You know what, the perception of islands is created in a different way. It is created from 15.07. to 15.08. when half of Croatia is on the Adriatic, and then everything looks beautiful, wonderful, but the other 11 months are just as you tried to say, there are no basic conditions even on certain islands for life, there is no water, there is no doctor, there is no store, there is not all that is needed for one normal life. It should also come when they clog the south and the storm and when people are condemned to say so on their own survival. That it does not go to the economy in its contribution to tourism on the islands is the fact that it neither subsidizes nor water to those economies that are on the island, so we all have our own problems. Maybe from some perspective of a good restaurant, a good list, and already as you stated it looks much better that month, but believe me, 11 months when you're sentenced to leave the last ferry at 8 o'clock, and it's only the first morning of 6 a.m. that there's a maternity home on that island, that there are also heart attacks and strokes and I don't know what kind of troubles and difficulties, and that it's not easy to live on the island then. And they're an increasingly older population and older people. So probably what the prime minister said was what he said in some effect of his own.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82617	And finally, the chief state auditor, Mr. Ivan Klešić. Please come out for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82618	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Now, given this remote clock and respecting the fatigue of all of us still present here, which is a little bit of us left, I'm going to be really very brief, but I thought I should say something, just a brief reference to a few of the claims that have been made here and give a little bit of clarification. In fact, it's been said and asked why we only worked in 4 national parks? I must say that the position of our colleagues and members of the top audit institutions from the EU member states with which we have signed this contract, so their position was that a sample of 4 national parks is sufficient, so all that is determined by the revision and all those recommendations made in these 4 national parks can be applied to others. I'd like to point out here that it wasn't that we weren't working, we were also doing a financial audit of Risnjak National Park and Plitvice National Park a few years ago. Dear Representative Bačić asked us to do the rest, we will certainly strive to build this on the basis of these available forces that we will have. Furthermore, there was another claim I also had to react to, someone said it and it was said why we were never so far in the tourist communities? That's not true, of course. The State Audit Office carried out a financial audit of the Croatian Tourist Board and 50 tourist communities of counties, cities and municipalities for 2004 and 2005. One very important revision that we did was a review of the effectiveness of 2007 which covered the whole tourist system. The claim made by Mrs. Jelash absolutely stands, which was that the subjects audited the irregularities the state auditors found and which they wrote in their reports, that is absolutely correct. As of this year, we have introduced one newspaper, which is that the audit entities in that indication that you have to deliver to the State Audit Office, which is within 60 days, must also deliver a plan of action. What does that mean? This means that the underlying irregularities set out in that plan must indicate the name, last name of the person or persons in charge of removing those irregularities. And in the end, just one thing, the most common thing that has occurred in this debate or in these discussions, and that's unpaid claims. The tourist communities have indeed submitted requests to tax administrations. The fact is that tax administrations should submit this report monthly, they unfortunately submit it, I don't know, in 2013. There should certainly be something to do and I am sure that this will be resolved by one agreement and will be handled accordingly. And finally just one more answer, I think the distinguished representative Tyrelli asked why, what's going on with our reports? I must say here in this high house that we are delivering our reports to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia regularly. I have to stress excellent cooperation with my colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office, who I would say daily and truly very professionally do their job, I have to say it here. In addition to that co-operation with the Ministry of Interior, the USKOK and courts are also high-level. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82619	Thank you very much. You've been here with us all day, thank you very much. Tomorrow we will begin at 9.30 with a debate on the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2013. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-02-0.u82620	State Audit Office's report on the audit carried out by tourist communities and tourism institutes. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the audit of tourist communities and tourism institutes is accepted. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted by the majority of the 107 vote for and four abstentions. ... We repeat the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please repeat the vote. A report on the audit of tourist communities and tourism institutes is being accepted. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? ... Who's against it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 106 votes for and 1 against, 4 abstentions are accepted by the proposed conclusion. Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. It is now time - The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2013 The Croatian National Bank submitted this report on the basis of Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. You've received a proposal for a report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does a representative of the CNB want to further explain? Yeah. Dear Boris Vujcic, governor of the CNB. Here you go, Governor.
