ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u77787	Dear Madam Vice-President, the HDZ Club is looking for a 15-minute break so they can manifest themselves about the latest events on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u77788	I'm setting a break to 9.46. [[It's 9:00.31.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:46 AM]] After a break requested by the HDZ club, we will hear the opinion, counterpart Jasen Mesic please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u77790	Madam Vice-President, respected colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately this is not the first time, and I am afraid not the last time the HDZ Club is looking for a break in the Croatian Assembly regarding HRT. The first time we did that was when a new director was replaced by 40 editors overnight. The second time we did it was when the lady who was working on HRT for the mobbing and the pressure committed suicide. The lady who talked about it got fired. After that we did when the auditors from the HRT were fired. Then we did so when the Chief Director, Mr. Radman, of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, was found to be in conflict of interest. So we did it when the board of directors voted him out. And we did all this because we knew that what's going on would start happening now, and that's when a minister or minister finds himself hurt by any gesture, question, comment from a journalist or journalist, and then those same journalists are being fired. No one's vanity to us who act in politics, in public space, can defend ourselves in this way that every journalist who asks us or comments or does something that we personally don't like at that time, then threatens to fire these people. So our problem was not that the chief director was in conflict of interest, we are not concerned that the HRT Supervisory Board brings on phone sessions consent to contracts of nearly 70 million kuna. At that time, no one from the Croatian government raises a voice or from the ruling coalition to say, "Wait, people, you shouldn't do that." When a journalist or journalist makes a comment, ask a question, then they are given up. When correspondence is shut down throughout Croatia and new competitions are opened for editors of the programme, where people from HRT who have proven themselves in their journalistic work are not employed, but some new ones. We wonder why, and at the same time we say we have too many people and we close places at HRT correspondence sites in Croatia. When correspondence is closed abroad that should be reported to Croats among other things. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not just saying this. Remember that report by the Reporter without borders we had the opportunity to see here in the Croatian Parliament on the decline of media freedoms. When you look at this system that is happening on HRT, it is clear that it is preparing such a climate to serve HRT in a pre-election campaign of the ruling coalition. It is impossible to explain otherwise why a journalist gets fired if he comments or asks a question to any minister. This isn't going to end well. HRT is constantly falling into everything it does. There are no weeks when on portals or in newspapers you don't have an affair or a scandal from that house, no weeks. How long will that be? And as long as Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have the need to react to HRT only when someone asks them questions or wrongly comments, and not when they happen to cancel, suicide, abolishing correspondence, that's something we all have to ask ourselves together. Composing such infrastructures on HRT is certainly not how public media service should operate. In that sense, the HDZ Club has requested a break in the Croatian Parliament to finally ask for the presence of chief directors, Mr. Radman, as well as all those from the government who call him and seek and protest against certain journalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u77791	Thank you very much. We move to the debate on - Final proposal of the Life Partnership Act of the same sex, second reading, P.Z. No. 584 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Administration, Mr Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84125	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Life Partnership Act for the same sex. In the period since the first reading, the proposal has experienced some minor changes, I would say that it is a fine setting or texting of certain provisions of the law that we wanted to respond to comments, suggestions and criticism from the debate during the first reading. There are no major substantive changes and all provisions of key importance for the law are the same. Since during the debate on first reading, I have explained in detail the vast majority of the provisions of the proposal, i.e. that the amendments that the legal text has experienced in the meantime are primarily technical and stylish, I have no intention of bothering you again with long-term legal arguments. Presenting this proposal this time, I would like to focus on some of his aspects that I believe deserve special attention and that I will try to respond to the key dilemmas related to this proposal, which have been discussed in detail and often passionately in public. In the first part of the presentation, I will point out the constitutional foundations of this law, which make it clear that the law that we are discussing today fully fulfils the obligation, the promise that the Croatian Constitution has made to citizens and citizens, and has put us in charge of fulfilling this promise through legal provisions. This part of the exposure in a very clear way will present the valuable foundations on which the law rests and which we led during the process of making it. In the second part, I will try to give a clear and honest answer to the sharp criticism the government faced during the public debate. The answers will make it clear exactly what we mean when we claim that the proposal we are discussing here today is the result of a democratic compromise. In the third and final part, I will explain my belief that, after living in practice, the law will make a significant contribution to the development of democracy in Croatian society and create a solid basis for a new compromise that will represent a new step in our society. Despite some claims made during the public debate, the Proposal for a Life Partnership Act is not the result of a mere political election, but a reflection of political responsibility in implementing the fundamental set-up of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution gives us a clear obligation to create a legal framework and social conditions for all our citizens an equal opportunity for a equally successful daily life in Croatia, which is clearly expressed through Article 1. The Constitution or the obligation of equal respect for all citizens and citizens regardless of their persons characteristics. The constitution also makes it clear that the principle of social equality of all citizens and citizens individually and social groups belonging to them whether minority or majority are the fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. This constitutional principle of real social equality is expressed through the provisions of the Constitution, and its strongest statement is found in Article 3 and Article 14. The Constitution. The principle of equality is set out in Article 35 which clearly states that the state authority must not only respect personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor of every citizen or citizen but has an obligation to ensure equal legal protection of these values. The obligation of equal legal protection of family life also has an international dimension, given that the European Court of Human Rights through its practice in the case of Vallianatos against Greece of 7 November 2013, has clearly established the obligation of the Member States to provide through their legislation a legal framework that: (a) ensure legal recognition of the same-sex communities, thereby guaranteeing the minimum of their dignity and (b) establish the rights and obligations of same-sex communities in accordance with the principle of equal treatment. Acting on the basis of that constitutional mandate, the Government has put an ambitious objective before it, to create a legal framework aimed at creating the social conditions of real equality of all citizens and citizens, regardless of their sexual orientation, while showing equal respect for social worlds currently in tension, which the state is obliged to respect as equally legitimate once again in accordance with the constitutional obligation. After a long-term process of making a proposal before you involving all relevant actors on both sides of the world-wide spectrum and during which a very extensive public debate was conducted, in which it was indeed made possible for every interested citizen or citizen to express their position and receive the proposal's response, I believe that we have succeeded in developing a model that will eventually successfully achieve that goal. During the process, I reiterated that the model of regulating the positions of same-sex communities you find in the proposal is a democratic compromise between the positions currently in tension and sometimes in a direct conflict in Croatian society. In view of the discussions that have taken place with regard to the proposal, it is useful to highlight the character of the compromise. The democratic compromise on which the proposal is based is not a minimum common denominator or is the least evil that opposing social groups had to accept. This democratic compromise of LGBT or LG guarantees citizens and citizens all rights and provides all the conditions necessary to have a real opportunity to create a common family life. Whether they will take that step is exclusively a matter of their personal choice, an expression of autonomy of their will. But this law guarantees a framework in which they have the same opportunity to achieve that personal choice in the same way as their heterosexual fellow citizens and fellow citizens. It's far more than a minimum common denominator. At the same time, the democratic compromise clearly expresses respect for the traditional worldview of the parts of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who, with high caution, look at changes within the way society regulates family relations. This is seen first of all in the decision to apply same-sex offices within the framework of a new separate legal institute called the Life Partnership, not within the traditional marriage institute. This is particularly highlighted after the referendum was carried out. Since the public debate on the proposal has made the claim that the use of different names is just a smokescreen, that is, to allow marriage to be made by same-sex couples only under a different name, please consider the following facts that clearly show the unfoundedness of such criticism. First, the position of children in marriage communities is viewed as clearly different children than the position of children in life partnerships. Second, the way a life partnership is broken down is significantly more flexible than the way a marriage is ended. Third, and perhaps the most picturesque provisions of the Family Law in their provisions regarding marriage include symbolic obligations reflecting the tradition of the institution, for example. states: Marriage mates are obliged to be faithful to one another, to help one another and to support one another, to respect one another, and to maintain a coherent marriage and family relationship. There are no similar provisions of the Life Partnership Act, not because we feel that life partners should not be worthy of each other or that they should not respect one another. Moreover, we reject that this symbolic obligation of marriage mates can be met by sanctions and punishments as suggested by others. The proposal will always respect its constitutional obligation to protect and promote the freedom of citizens and citizens to whom it serves. Whether marriage mates or life partners will be faithful to each other and whether to respect one another is exclusively their autonomous and personal will, and that border of personal privacy we had no intention and no mandate to cross. Therefore, similar provisions in the Law on the Life Partnership of the same sex are not precisely due to this because we respect the fact that the life partnership of the institute of different traditions has been developed in very different social circumstances than marriage and that the above obligations do not need to be stressed because they reflect, in one way or another, certain traditional symbols related to the institution of marriage, which is why they are also declared to be included in the Family Law that deals with the institution. Furthermore, the democratic compromise on which the proposal is based clearly expresses respect for the high caution that this part of our fellow citizens sees changes within the way society regulates family relations, especially when it comes to the situation of children. This respect is reflected in the fact that the Life Partnership Act does not contain provisions on adoption but remains exclusively in the Family Law governing marriage and the extramarital community. In view of the fact that during the public debate and in view of this difference, various claims arised that the partner care institute in its being a small adoption should be further highlighted. First, the adoption of a child breaks up all family ties between a child and biological relatives. Partner care has no such effect and the child always remains related to the biological parent and his relatives. Second, adoption is made possible for married or out - of - wedlock friends who do not have, who neither of them are the parents of the child they adopt. Partner care is based on a court decision only if it promotes the welfare of a child who is one of the parent partners. Third, the adoption institute allows the adoption of a child that both parents are known or alive. Partner care is based on the court’s decision in the interest of the child’s welfare only if another parent is not known or has died or has abused a child for which parental care has been taken away. Fourthly, once the adoption is established cannot be broken, partner care may be taken from the court's decision if its main court is not granted protection of the child's well-being. The following differences make it very clear to what extent we have taken into account the high caution that a good part of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens have when it comes to stepping away from the established ways of regulating the situation of children in family communities. At the same time, the democratic compromise on which the proposal is based clearly expresses its respect for those family communities of fellow citizens and fellow citizens of the same sex orientation in which children live and grow up at this time or in the future. The Institute of Partnership Care of the Child provides partners with all practical rights and prescribes all obligations necessary to ensure that in real life both can successfully fulfil the legal obligation to care for the child and promote its or its well-being. The proposal prescribs the rights and obligations that guarantee all child care conditions that live in these family communities that are equally high in the speed that children can receive within the framework of a marriage or an extramarital community. On the contrary, it would be discrimination against children living in same - sex families because of their parents ’ sexual orientation. Such that we could not allow, not because it is the opposite of the Constitution, but rather because it is not human. At the same time, given the important changes to the Family Law that have taken place since the first parliamentary debate on this proposal, it is useful to respond clearly to claims that the proposal promotes segregation policy or that the Government discriminates against same-sex couples by not acting in the context of adoption to them in the same way as out-of-marriage partners. We strongly reject such a claim. The law which puts registered life partnerships in the same position as the marriage community, i.e. informal life partnerships in the same position as the extramarital community, which are the last changes to the family law after the extended time of formal equality now placed in a truly equal position to marriage mates cannot reflect a segregation policy by any definition of that concept. As I have explained, it is true that the Law on the Life Partnership of the same-sex communities does not equal treatment to heterosexual communities with regard to access to the adoption institute. But this difference is not nearly enough to call the proposal segregating. Moreover, this difference has an objective justification and as such does not even constitute discrimination. It would be irresponsible of us to include in the law provisions on adoption, which one wants to acknowledge or have no far-reaching consequences for individual human lives but also social relations in which they take place without obtaining feedback on the most basic assumptions such as. Whether the Life Partnership Institute in real life will be accepted by the citizens and citizens to whom it is intended. I sincerely believe that this Law guarantees all rights, i.e. it creates all the conditions that are necessary for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens of equal sex orientations to start together and lead a successful family life based on their best feelings and which is equally successful in the common life that the Republic of Croatia has already made possible for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens of heterosexual orientation. But will they accept this institute as something that they are willing to give their sympathy and trust is the only thing on them. It's their personal decision, the expression of their autonomy and will, and we have to respect that. However, that claim of unfavorable treatment against the extramarital communities, I will simply answer it with a simple fact. The same, step-by-step approach was applied by the legislator for the same reasons to the development of the extramarital community. Only recent changes to the Family Law have put the extramarital community in a position of real equality with marriage communities and have only recently, after a number of years of proof in practice, secured identical tax, labour or social benefits, or most importantly, equal approach to adoption enjoyed by marriage communities for decades. There the government and this assembly of parliament have shown their consistency in expanding the protection of family life and will continue in an equally responsible manner. Therefore, the objection to discrimination against same-sex communities due to the difference in adoption towards extramarital communities is completely unfounded because this proposal before you reflects the same approach that approached the arrangement and development of the extramarital community when that institute entered our legal system. In view of the above, I hope that you can accept the assessment that the proposal is indeed the result of a democratic compromise. Since it was a compromise, no one got everything, but no one stayed at all. I believe that the law reflects more than well the value target recently recognised by the European Court of Human Rights in Valienatos' judgment when he asked Member States to develop a legal framework that would regulate the position of same-sex communities because without this kind of legal recognition, the state cannot protect the dignity of its citizens and citizens of the same-sex orientation. By providing very practical, concrete rights and benefits necessary for the successful construction of family life and communities of our citizens of equal orientation, as recently done in the context of extramarital communities, the proposal first and foremost reflects the recognition of the fact that the everyday life of our society is marked by the diversity of family life, and then demonstrates the value and attitude of the proposing that the right to deny and diversity offends the personal dignity of a significant part of the Croatian citizens and citizens and pushs them into the status of second-class citizens. Indeed, this proposal only consistently implements what has long been constitutional in our legal order, the benefits arising from the status of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia must not depend on race, ethnicity, sex and sexual orientation. I believe that the same position was expressed through the Constitutional Court's decision of 14 November 2013, adopted on the basis of the National Conference on the Constitutional Definition of Marriage. I quote: From a material and legal point of view, it is relevant that the Republic of Croatia legally recognises both marriage and the extramarital community and the same-sex community and that Croatian law is today in line with European legal standards when it comes to marriage institutes and family life. Finally, the Constitutional Court considers the following to be necessary. Any addition to the Constitution to a provision under which marriage is a woman and a man's life union must have no effect on further development of legal frameworks, an institute of extramarital and same-sex communities, in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right to respect and legal protection of his personal and family life and his human dignity. This law achieves that goal. It is a further development mentioned by the Constitutional Court and creates conditions that will make it possible for same-sex communities to put all the instruments that are necessary to build together successfully their family lives based on feelings of intimate, emotional attachment and mutual trust, while at the same time expressing respect for the present attachment of those fellow citizens and fellow citizens of tradition to the institution of marriage. In the end, I would stress another dimension of this whole experience that I find extremely valuable. The compromise underlying this proposal brings benefits to the democratic development of our society. The objective of this law is not limited to the dry regulation of specific rights and obligations. The law tends, after this story is moved from this political arena and the sphere of public debate to the everyday life, to help create a space where equal parties will better understand each other through further mutually-respected talks and find the basis for a new compromise. The process of drawing up this proposal was based on the belief that progress in this area is possible, regardless of clearly different worldly views related to the legal arrangement of the situation of different forms of family life in Croatian society. Not only were we welcome to see a more diverse range of interests and views in the drafting of this proposal, we were extremely careful that, using the mandate and powers given to us, we did not reduce those under whom the law should produce effects on the mere legal entity, but we insisted on their active role in making this compromise, regardless of their views being extremely critical or cautiously positive. That is exactly what this attempt to find a democratic compromise is very different from those initiatives that most people are trying to use to bring the minority down to the mere subject of decisions in which there is no real chance of actively participating. This is not the understanding of democracy behind this proposal and I believe that the path which was the basis of this proposal, the way of talks and mutual exchanges of arguments between interested actors who enjoy equal status, equal recognition and who are given a real opportunity to make their views known will be even more open and dynamic once the law is brought into practice. Thank you for your attention and I am available for all questions and comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84126	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84127	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said so yourself, and we all experience that the fundamental purpose of this law is somehow to help reduce discrimination. However, he unfortunately introduces a whole series of discriminations, starting with what we mentioned at the first reading, which is that he from the whole English shortcut that has a lot of letters only comes down to the first two, to LG, and not even what is a colloquial LGBT, so there are no bisexual or transsexual persons inside, let alone all those others such as the unborn persons, such as the cyclone persons, such as neutrious persons, etc., etc. Therefore, it is an objection related to discrimination. In this case, unfortunately, the introduction of this informal partnership which I will later discuss actually enables the actual adoption of a child in certain situations, which is not possible for marriage mates, let alone for heterosexual persons in the extramarital community under similar circumstances. Therefore, it is also a kind of discrimination. There are several more discriminations in this, but there will likely be more speeches during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84128	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84129	Thank you. As far as this LGBT is concerned, so I, in the opening statement, singled out LG from the other letters that are mentioned here, which I have to say about the letter B, he also concerns these persons. It is their right to choose whether to marry or to enter a life partnership when they already have such affinities. And as far as these Ts are concerned, it's a similar thing, so whether someone T or not T has a gender recorded in their nuts, and it can be determined accordingly what kind of institutionally recognised community they want to enter, and I have to say that there is not enough legally regulated process regarding gender change. But I believe that colleagues from the resolution ministry will soon better regulate it. As far as discrimination concerning informal and extramarital communities is concerned, so we have tried to rewrite the provisions concerning the extramarital community and informal life partnership for the reason it is estimated that at this point a greater number than that of the extramarital communities. So most communities will be unregistered for reasons that they will not dare yet, will not want or simply have not created the conditions to publicly express their sexual orientation. But as time and experience are, say, from Slovenia, but as time goes on and on and on and on, it's going to be less and less. As far as discrimination and adoption are concerned, I just want to tell you that the partner care institute has been introduced so as not to introduce those parent labels 1 and parent 2 into the legal system. So that's another part of the compromise. I think that, therefore, we were not prepared for this step that some other countries have, because in the event of adoption, a child would have two fathers or two mothers, which I do not think Croatian society is ready at this time. Therefore, the partner care institute is not adoption, but is indeed another democratic compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84130	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. You were talking about the government being irresponsible if you didn't put a law like this in the process. You were talking about a public debate. I will say that from my point of view that you have shown the Government of the Republic of Croatia here as credible, credible in what it proposes to this law netly after a referendum in which 950,000 Croatian citizens have decided and told the Government that they do not support the government's opinions on marriage unions and that Croatian citizens consider marriage an institution between a man and a woman. My question to you now is whether this law would have been on the agenda and if the referendum hadn't been such a result or this law wouldn't have happened then. I don't think you took a good look at this part of the public debate and that there is no greater public debate than the part that was held in a referendum where Croatian citizens said they disagreed with the government's policy. And definitely, you've defended this part of this law that concerns children in the sense that he doesn't get in the way of some rights that are obtained in principle by marriage, by having a child. You've been a little too defensive for that part. It seems to me that it does, because if it didn't, we wouldn't pay that much attention to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84132	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84133	So, answer the question. First of all, the law and the referendum. Work on this law began sometime in the sixth month of 2012. So, a year and a half before the referendum and about a year before any idea of a possible conduct of the referendum. This is probably seen from my steps, but also from the forwards of certain leaders of the strongest opposition party. So, this law was really discussed long before the referendum, so I believe in substance that it would not have been very different if the referendum had not been carried out, because it was never intended to introduce a same-sex marriage in Croatia, and in this sense here is the answer to the first question. As far as the second question is concerned, the most sensitive part of this law is articles concerning the position of children. And that is why they need a little more detailed explanation to remove certain misunderstandings, certain possible false interpretations, or certain malicious innuendos to what this law wants done in the case, so that one of the partners has a child from a previous marriage or another way that children are already being given and how to arrange if that child is left without anyone in this world. So give the court the opportunity to declare his father's life partner or his mother's life partner a guardian. Nothing more and nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84134	Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84135	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, the Life Partnership Act is governed by the formal and informal life partnership of the same sex person almost the same way that the Family Law regulates marriage and the extramarital community. It seems that after voting on this proposal we will get a special law that applies exclusively to people with homosexual tendencies, I hope that soon we will not get special laws for women as persons of other color and skin or all those who do not have blond hair and eyes. This law does not help anyone, however, contributes to the isolation of the LGBT community and further antagonises the majority who made it clear in the referendum how they feel about same-sex marriages. We here with this attitude can agree or not, but we must respect it, which this law does not. This law is therefore a fraud. What's being arranged for it isn't marriage, but actually it is, it's not adoption but it actually is. I am deeply saddened to see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers the Croatian people to be left behind and stupid and thus treats it. Luckily, you won't be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84136	Replication response, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84137	When we single out the daily and rhetorical figures from this replica of yours, we just have to say don't you defend the LGBT community or they asked you to, and I don't believe you'd agree with what you said to be discriminated against by this proposal. As for the referendum, I quoted in the opening statement the part of the Constitutional Court's decision concerning the referendum and I think I understood what the Constitutional Court said. And that I understood even better what the initiators of the referendum had said before the referendum, which is that this proposal did not touch on the content but on the name, and after the referendum they began to say that it was a referendum and on the content. Well then I don't know who considers the Croatian people stupid, those who spoke one thing before the referendum, and after the referendum the other or us who all the time speak the same and the Constitutional Court as well, which is that the Institute of Marriage and the Institute of Life Partnership, therefore the referendum on marriage has no effect on the Institute of Life Partnership in this part. And just these differences that I was talking about, and that's the name, the right to adopt, and some of the symbolic differences that I've said are what we've put into law to make it clear, and we're not hiding it. And if you see any difference other than the one I said, let us know if we can make it right, and it'll be something like that. So there's nothing there, we're not actually hiding anything, we're saying the same thing. It's that there's two differences and that's those differences. And if we have made a mistake in interpreting the will of the citizens and in interpreting the will of the Constitutional Court then it will be put out of force and it will be no harm because it will not apply. And I'm sure that won't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84138	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84139	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you'll agree that in the rule of law, by passing laws in the procedure of law-making and when law-making is the only legal framework, the framework of all frameworks must be the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in each law and in this law. You have mentioned several articles of the Constitution, I would add this as a legal framework, as a framework for all frameworks in the adoption and this law Article 14 which says that we are all equal before the law, but also Article 20, which states who is to blame for the provisions of the Constitution on human rights and fundamental freedoms is personally responsible and cannot be justified by a higher order. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court, when after the referendum, i.e. on the referendum on the institution of marriage in the Republic of Croatia, stated in its opinion that no effect of the referendum could affect the laws governing the life of the same-sex community, I believe, I am sure that the Constitutional Court also took account of these articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I think it should be a framework in which we should move today in discussions. Only the Constitution and the laws among which the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84140	Replication response, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84141	Well, I agree with everything you said. I would add that the debate in the first reading also showed a certain democratic, in fact not a certain but significant democratic progress of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian society and the Croatian Parliament, because by comparing the 2003 debate on the Law on Equal Communities with the discussion in 2014 on the Life Partnership Act, a higher degree of awareness of human rights was also shown. And I believe that, of course, I'm sure there will also be attempts to use this debate to a much smaller extent than in 2003 for a certain daily-political verbal, etc. Other shootings. Besides, I didn't exactly stay away from it when I was an agent, so I don't have the right to complain to others about it. But I can draw attention here and there and express my awareness that I am the same. Well, that's also some progress. So, all the time, I'm actually going to try to speak with a calm and boring voice about this subject, and I hope that this debate will pass as well. We are therefore aware that there is no compromise with human rights, although it is contradictory when I said this proposal is a democratic compromise. So human rights have some of their own dynamic flow. For example, the European Court of Human Rights is about the same thing, as counterpart Grbin said in his first reading, made various judgments with a time-limit of 15 years, with reasons, changed the circumstances. Circumstances for this step have changed in Croatia at this time, and at another point, circumstances may change for an additional step. But we all have to work on it to make it happen. And these day-to-day political things, I guess we'll make it out of them a little bit today, and maybe we won't, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84142	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84143	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said in your presentation at the beginning that you would not bother us with legal formulations, but you were talking about a democratic compromise as a basis between the values positions and the world-famous tensions in Croatian society. And you haven't kept a little secret about how life partnership and marriage differ only in the name and right to adopt children. What I want to tell you, and you have responded to Mr. Hrg, it is true that a year before the referendum itself spoke about this law, but while the public debate and the first reading took place, a referendum happened to you, it is a fact, it happened with 66% of Croatian citizens' will to make a decision that marriage is a woman and a man's life union, and that's a fact. What's the point of this referendum isn't just marriage as a concept, it's said to protect marriage, it's talked about the content of marriage, it's important. When we talk about this worldly and valuable system. Yesterday, a colleague here spoke when we spoke of the Labour Act and other points, he said before that he had a feeling, and that he is now certain that you and your Government are, in fact, breaking up the Croatian state, economically at first. And I'm now saying so revolutionaryly you want to do this worldly and ideologically. And once again, I would like to point out that the adoption of this law is really about playing the voter's will in this same referendum, but it also creates a huge mistrust of citizens in the rule of law and the rule of law after that referendum. And you said there was no adoption of children, and I'll tell you in an explanation, you say by this second model that partnerships are a concern when the death of a parent's life partner occurs, provided that the other parent is not alive. And what's that other than adoption?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84144	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84145	The individual has the right to adopt. When someone who's in a life partnership, and his life partner dies, he's not in a life partnership anymore, he's an individual. And under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, he would have the right to adopt. Is that court going to judge that's another one? Thus, this individual has the right to adopt as an individual, not a child of a life partner, but then he becomes his father or mother, depending on whether it's a man or a woman. And in the case of partner care, he doesn't become either his mother or his father, but exactly what he says in the law is a guardian partner, and the child still knows, or his mother is the one who gave birth to him, or if the person who adopted him was adopted, and his father is the one who was before. So, as far as adoption is concerned, we explained in detail why it wasn't. As far as the referendum is concerned, the question is whether we are talking about political or legal will. As for the legal will, and who this law is, does not comply with the Article of the Constitution on marriage, then the Constitutional Court will put it out of force and there will be no harm done by it. If it is in accordance with the Constitution, then this first part of your argument is not correct. As for the will of citizens, I also spoke to citizens during the referendum and can argue that those 33% or 35% who voted against are absolutely for this law to be passed, and of those 65% who voted for a larger number of them is also to sort of regulate the status of same-sex communities but not in a way to call it marriage. And among those who have probably voted in favour, and agree to this, to regulate whether this is exactly the law I don't know, to regulate the law are also some of the leaders of your party who made this public before the referendum and afterwards here and there and after.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84146	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you. And Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84147	Thank you. Well, here's the minister, I'm actually interested in explaining one thesis, which is the issue of a democratic compromise, so who has reached a democratic compromise and with whom has he achieved it? That would be interesting if you finally told us that with the Catholic majority you did not achieve it, with whom did you reach a compromise? Have you and the associations, who has reached a democratic compromise on these issues, on these social issues that are actually affecting fundamental relations in Croatian society? And the other thing, you've talked to some people, I mean you're usually a man who's pretty exact, you've talked to some people and you've found that half of them thinks like this, half of the total number of people who went out on a referendum. I talked to some people, and I got a completely different opinion. I mean, it's hard from talking to some people to define the statistical relationships of those who went to the referendum, which any of them thought, what half of them thought like this, half of it. I mean, I don't think it's common for you to find this way to explain the statistics. If you wanted to know what he meant, what Croatian citizens really think you could pay one agency to do a poll on 1,000, 1500 respondents so that we can all see together what Croatian citizens actually think about this topic. Which may not have been bad, given that it is a world-class issue and a problem that affects all citizens. But this democratic compromise you have not achieved with this right hand side of the Croatian Parliament, nor with this right hand side of Croatian society, I do not know exactly who has achieved this democratic compromise with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84148	The answer to the replica Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84149	Now I'm going to be something more exact about a democratic compromise. So, an interview by one of the party's leaders, which is said to be the right-wing party, the biggest right-wing party in Croatia, and I will read to you about what a democratic compromise is. What are your views on homosexuals, asks a journalist. And this leader answers, "It's an individual's choice, I'm a practical believer, for me marriage is a union of men and women. He asks a journalist, do you have any gay friends? Answer: I haven’t noticed, perhaps I’m not handsome to them. I don't mind homosexuals, it's their choice but I'm not about gay couples to adopt children. Question of the press, would you allow them to marry? Let her get married but without children, I'm joking, we should be able to sort of legalize our community, only men and women can get married, and in order for the child to start having a mother and a father. This law, the bill of law, says exactly that, married or married men and women, the right to adopt a child has men and women, and homosexuals can somehow legalize their community. It's a compromise, I don't know a different compromise. So this law fully corresponds to everything that the leader of a right-wing party in Croatia said and that is why I expected the party to support it, but come on, no, they were against in the first reading. And it's a compromise. I don't know, if you want me to tell you the name that this is about, I'll tell you, I don't think there's any need to advertise, I won't. You say it in the replica, I guess you know what the party leaders are telling you in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84150	A report on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality will be submitted by colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84151	Thank you very much, dearly respected vice president of our Parliament, the respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 28th session held on 3 July 2014 the final proposal for a Life Partnership Act for the same sex submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 24 June 2014. The Committee discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Introductoryly, the Minister of Administration presented the final draft law, i.e. the difference between the draft law in the first reading. During the preparation of the final draft of the law, remarks were accepted to change the name of the law in a way that clearly points to a circle of persons to whom it applies. Furthermore, a provision has been added to prohibiting any form of violence in the community of family life. The promoter also accepted a proposal from the Committee on Gender Equality, which can also be designed for the life of a parent’s parent if parental care for child abuse is taken from another parent, not only if the other parent is unknown. In accordance with the observations, the applicant has nomotechnically and explicitly edited the text of the final draft law. In a discussion followed by the chairman of the committee, she expressed her satisfaction that the final proposal for a law has respected a number of remarks and proposals from the debate in the first reading. The representative of the Zagreb Pride Association supported the adoption of the law although the association hoped for more progressive legal solutions. The Deputy Advocate General for Gender Equality pointed out that public support for the adoption of the law is also given by the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality and after the discussion was conducted by members and members of the Committee, with 7 votes in favour and 4 votes against the Croatian Assembly to propose to adopt the Life Partnership Act for the same sex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84152	Do the other committees want to file a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84153	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have the Final Proposal for the Life Partnership Act for the same sex. The SDP Club as well as in its first reading will support the adoption of this law, we welcome it as a significant step towards the existing Law on Same-Sex Communities. A law according to which no couple has ever reached the community before, which means that neither couple in Croatia has achieved this most modest scope, primarily the property rights that this Law on the same-sex communities gave or made possible. It took us 11 years to come up with a bill that lays down clear and in practice clearly feasible conditions for the creation, i.e. the conclusion of the life partnership of the same sex. We consider the most valuable which is a significant extended approach to a whole series of practical life rights necessary for the normal functioning of same-sex communities. We also welcome the fact that the government and the competent ministry have respected a number of concrete remarks and proposals made in the debate in the first reading and which, we are confident, will contribute to the quality of the law itself and the possibility that a part of our country's citizens and citizens will exercise their rights that have been denied to them all these years. In this regard, we particularly welcome the addition of Article 6 where a provision on the prohibition of violence is introduced, each type of violence within the meaning of life partnerships. I also know that there have been more discussions on behalf of the SDP club that might add those words, when parental care for child abuse has been taken away, but I think it can be explained, and that perhaps, we will propose that, on the basis of a judgment of power, that if parental care has been taken away, on the basis of a judicial verdict against the harm of our child, then this will also be carried out through the next article. And it may also be possible, in Article 48, to complete and clarify the design, so through one part of the impact of the partner’s care, whether it can be related, therefore, to establishing concerns between the partner of the child’s guardians and his offspring on the one hand. We believe that there are still opportunities to discuss this part and see if it can possibly be improved. And during the first reading, we emphasized and therefore repeat that the living communities of the same-sex partners exist and exist in our society, that they are our reality, and the reality is that their children live in them, and that for the sake of the well-being of all members of such a community, it was especially necessary to regulate relations between parents, children and life partners who are not parents but live together and care and care for those children. This law primarily regulates the already existing situation. He allows LGBT persons to finally establish their human rights as citizens of Croatia, but also as citizens of the EU, and as they stated in a statement they recently sent to the public, some will form a life partnership and a desire to strengthen their long-standing relationship, and some will simply share their happiness with their families, friends and loved ones. Until the proposal of this law, or its adoption, I believe in what day, the existing legal framework in Croatia is not in line with the system of protection of EU Human Rights Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In fact, through a series of decisions, the European Court of Human Rights has set a clear standard that Member States cannot deny to same-sex communities those rights which have provided heterosexual communities. There is, of course, no uniform approach of the Member States of the Union on legal recognition of same-sex communities, but there is a European consensus on the recognition of legal status, rights and obligations as well as of the marriage community. The European system of protection of human rights of the heterosexual family community and the same-sex family community considers them equally valuable, equally dignified in the form of family life. Accordingly, this final draft of the law prescribes how registered and unregistered life partnerships of two persons of the same sex represent a unit of family life. We are convinced that this proposal respects and reflects the real social context in which Croatia is located when it comes to the position of same-sex communities in our society. The Charter of Human Rights of the EU defines marriage as a community of two, stressing that the question is the definition of marriage in the jurisdiction of the Member States provided that it does not restrict the rights of persons of the same-sex community by using that jurisdiction. It is precisely on the basis of this that the statement of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 14.11.2013, 15 days before the referendum, which clearly states that a possible addition of the Constitution to a provision under which marriage is a community of women and men should not have any effect on the further development of the legal frameworks of the non-marital and same-sex communities in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic has the right to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and their human dignity. Finally, let me, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, in the debate on the final proposal of this law, consider it necessary to give and acknowledge, but also to the many members and members of the LGBT community, their activists who have warned us all these past years about themselves, their existence, the inability to exercise their basic human rights and what they have done to become truly visible to what they have been brave and that they have helped us, too, to make decisions, to be aware and to work together all this time with this government on the proposal of this law which is now in the final form before us. We at the SDP club don't fool ourselves that this law will make all their problems go away. There will be prejudice and discrimination, and it is up to all of us to continue to be persistent in our efforts that every but truly every citizen and citizen achieves full equality and equality in accordance with the Constitution, European law, and numerous international documents and conventions, and that on the other hand we, particularly, condemn those who are in public life but to sanction any attempt of discrimination expressed by any speech that can be characterized by hate speech, whether by violent behaviour towards any member or member of the LGBT community or any other citizen and citizen who in some way is different from any other majority. I repeat once again the SDP adopts a law on the life partnership of persons of the same sex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84154	Thank you very much. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Sobol, I am pleased that you have commended that it has been complemented by violence, which is a proposal from the HDZ in the first reading. However, what I have reported is primarily something, which is that neither the first proposal nor the proposal in the text stipulates that the life partnership is intended for persons of a particular sexual orientation nor states as a condition for the conclusion of a life partnership that persons entering that community should in some way declare that the same-supply of the orientations are linked. And now, of course, there's a whole problem. Since sexual commitment is not prescribed for either purpose or reason, then the question is why the conclusion of a life partnership is being discriminated against, I again have to do with one kind of discrimination, blood relatives in a flat line, if by definition it's not about communities based on sexual commitment, then there's no danger of incest, so there's no difference in ban. I don't understand why it's been denied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84156	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84157	My friend Reiner, you're married, I guess, and I'm married, and I'm not married when I'm married, so I'm asked what my sexual orientation is. I don't think it's you either. And if I'm not mistaken, such a question is forbidden by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Therefore, if there is no such thing as a marriage union or an extramarital community, why should it exist here?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84158	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, property rights can be settled with a public notary, and that's where a contract is made with a lawyer, I don't know right now, but most of it can be solved so I don't think it's the point of this law. The fact is that the first attempt that Minister and counterpart Babic spoke of earlier resulted in support of citizens and a referendum that produced the results he had given. And the fact is that you, as the ruling set, do not respect the will of the citizens, the will of most citizens, because immediately afterwards you proposed a new bill. But I think we may have gone wrong, but since you spoke on behalf of the SDP club as the leading party in the Kukurik coalition, I am interested in the fact that when the law is passed, we must have all the information on how we are talking about the community of that kind in Croatia. In fact, you say the law regulates the already existing state. Well, perhaps, based on that statement, you know what data is, so how many of those communities are in Croatia that you say exist. It would be very good to hear, I think that perhaps we in the debate and probably behave differently and maybe direct our discussions in a different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84160	Gordana Sobol's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84161	First, this Law regulates relations and speaks of relations regulated by the state itself. So I don't see what this is all about. Secondly, you're saying we don't respect the will of the citizens, please why, by what? A little less than 38% of eligible voters came out of the referendum. 25% voted in favour, a definition of marriage to enter the Constitution as a male and female community and 13% voted against. So one-quarter voted for this. But that figure absolutely doesn't matter because the Constitution has been changed and completed. What makes you think that we don't respect it because it doesn't stand in that sentence and that it's forbidden or something else that people of the same sex make up some communities? I'm guessing you didn't want to achieve that referendum. I guess you didn't want to do that. If you wanted to do this then you actually lied to the public and the citizens of Croatia and I believe that one part of the citizens came out because you interpreted something else to them and eventually it turned out not to be that. And finally, you ask me how many communities of same sex exist in Croatia? And what does that even matter, please? Do we have one right now, do we have 10, do we have 50 or have 5 hundred, or do we have 5 thousand, every citizen in terms of sexual orientation can't be discriminated against and every citizen in this country has the right to leave some form of family community, whether it's a marriage partnership, whether it's an extramarital community, whether it's single parenting. I think you agree with that, and I hope your representative in the EU will agree to Parliament because she is just a member of the Women's Rights Subcommittee and Gender Equality. And you're supposed to stand up for something that's the opposite of what you're up for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84162	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84163	Dear fellow Sobol, unfortunately I will be forced to support such a law, you said the SDP club supports I thought the law would be braver, that it would make a braver step. I agree with most of your debate especially with this finding if there is any same-sex community for it to have the right to some form, as you said, of family communities. Several speakers have already talked about the manipulation of marriage, however, the government's manipulation. However, it seems to me that in the name of the family it has manipulated the referendum. When they were in the referendum campaign, they said that it was not their intention to reduce their rights or to prevent same - sex communities from some form of family organization that had to be allowed by the state. After the referendum passed they changed the story, then they said here now you see that the citizens of Croatia told non-sex communities. It was purely political manipulation. And all those who took part in it, I mean politicians, the parties are manipulated. And now it is seen from this debate that it was actually intended to discriminate against some people in the Republic of Croatia and it is startling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84164	Gordana Sobol's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84165	I fully agree with my colleague Vuksic. Yes, in the end, it was revealed, so they discovered themselves that definitely with the story of this referendum they wanted to confuse to say one state and to make it impossible for some of the citizens and citizens of this country to exercise their rights. Because you know, I wonder if it was a different formulaed question, I'm afraid that, I'm sure you wouldn't have collected enough signatures or to call a referendum, but that's another story. In any case, this manipulation can definitely be read from this letter, which I assume all the representatives received from the association on behalf of the family in which they oppose the adoption of such a bill. And as for fellow Vuksic's courage, yes, I think this law has also taken a brave step, perhaps not the bravest but responsible one. A courageous and responsible step for the current situation in Croatia today, and I believe that as such it can get a large number of votes in this House, and as I think the minister has also talked about it, the subject itself and the relationship to the achievement of human rights is actually developing in some way all over the past years, I believe that this development will be in Croatia in the future and that long before the next 10 or 11 years will pass and the improvement of this bill will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84166	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. As with the recent first reading and the second reading of this bill, which is not in the most important provisions, as Mr. Minister himself said, the issue arises as to why the government even insists on its adoption at a time when Croatia has far greater problems due to the particularly bad economic situation and crisis, enormous unemployment, the growing poverty that affects all citizens equally, whether homosexual, or those heterosexual orientations. This is more interesting than the fact that there are very few people, there have been speeches, which are covered by the proposal of this law because there are only 70 such couples, or 140 people, according to the census. Even if in real life there are several times more, and it probably is, but for any reason they have not decided to publish their relations, if the regulation of the rights of such a small number of people is put forward by the ruling as a priority which then responds to hundreds of thousands of unemployed, what does it matter to those who leave Croatia with bread, what does it matter to those who are digging through containers or standing in tails in front of public kitchens, that their unemployment and poverty does not matter, and this law is? What do you say to millions and 200 thousand pensioners, that resolving their endangered existence is less important and hastily than passing this law? What do you say to almost a quarter of a million farms ahead of extinction? The only first answer is that the ruling law again wants to draw the public's attention from the key problems of the Croatian society that they have just caused so that people in the bile disputes over the world's issues, and this is what it is, forgets their sad everyday life and the disastrous complete inability of the Kukuriku coalition to solve the real, true problems of Croatian society today. I want to make it very clear that HDZ is in no way against better regulation of the relationship between homosexuals living in a permanent life community, but it is against this law because this law does not solve it in a completely inappropriate way. In addition, he is in many aspects simply two-faced, and I will explain why. However, first of all, it should also be made clear that the proposal of this law is indeed, and that was the words of several replicas earlier, playing the express will of the people expressed in the constitutional referendum and violates the clear provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it allows marriage to be made for persons of the same sex, only under a different name. So deura is not about marriage, but de facto it is about marriage, and we believe that marriage is not and cannot be just a mere notion or a word. Otherwise, the Constitution is trampled and the constitutional order and rule of law in Croatia is deeply threatened. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that even if you do not agree with the provision of the Constitution that reflects the values of most Croatian citizens related to marriage and family, yours, it is our obligation to respect and protect the Constitution. In order to enable marriages, under another name alone, direct and multiple articles of the bill stating that a certain institute is quoted as saying: "in an appropriate way they apply the provisions of a special law governing family relations", or refer to a number of articles of the Family Law relating to marriage and marital relations and relate to the same-sex partners in an identical manner, not under the name of marriage only. So equating with marriage is completely open and unhindered in this law. However, what distinguishes such a community from marriage, and it reflects the ultimate duality of the government as a legislator of the law is that the following family law again quotes: "marriage partners are obliged to be faithful to one another, to help one another and to support one another, to respect one another and to maintain a coherent marriage and family relationship", while life partners do not have an obligation neither to be faithful to one another nor to maintain coherent partner and family relations, and they are obliged to help one another and to provide care and assistance only in case of illness. Isn't it actually a two-faced... real and honest, permanent life partnership of two people of the same sex? In addition, following the Family Law, marriage mates agree on a place of residence and a family home or an apartment where they will live with children who have parental care and who are a family home for them and children. Life partners, however, have no obligation to determine a common place of residence or to have a common residence, residence or home. How, without this obligation, you can build a family, seek respect and legal protection of family life, dignity and reputation if, for example, life partners don't have the same household, they don't have to live in the community at all, but that they can live permanently each and every one for themselves, for example, hundreds of miles away. Thus, this same - sex life - partner law theoretically assigns the protection of family life even though they are not asked to really start a family life, which is two-faced and truly bizarre. When we mention the Family Law, we must point to a major problem that would arise by adopting this law in this form. Last week, the Constitutional Court for the first time in Croatian history, within a record period of only 4 working days after the entry into force of a law, declared the non-constitutional provisions of the Family Law with the reason that it must defend the principle of legal certainty and ensure that protected constitutional values are respected. It was precisely that failure in the Family Law that HDZ warned in the parliamentary debate and, with its amendment, tried to correct the government's failure, but the government rejected the proposals as usual, and Parliament's Kukuriku voted most of the family law with the strength of the muscles because it simply has most hands. So what happens now? The Constitutional Court has determined that, in addition to six or seven articles, the rest of the new Family Law is not in force because of the endangerment of the legal order. If you were to vote in a few days, then eight days after that, the Life Partnership Act of the same sex person in which a series of articles are called for new articles, I stress a new Family Law that does not exist legally, you colleagues and colleagues would only cause another major legal controversy. We're warning you well-intentioned this time. Of course, someone will certainly say on the side of the ruling ones as one SDP bulletin has already done and easily respond that in the meantime, the provisions of the old Family Law will apply, although in the bill of this law everything applies to the Family Law, the new Family Law, and not just as two articles are written that are likely to be irrelevant in relation to the child’s and the achievement of personal relations after the end of the life partnership. But let us return to the question of what else is two-faced in this bill's proposal? Although the idea of this law should be the affirmation of the life partnership of same-sex persons, it is fully relativised by the introduction of the concept of informal life partnership and in fact acquittal. If the purpose of the bill was to regulate the community of persons of the same sex, it should be arranged by encouraging those persons to register as a living community, not by encouraging them to remain unregistered, or in an informal partnership no matter what it means, because in reality it is completely disrupting and compromising the fundamental concept that they really regulate the rights of the life partnership of persons of the same sex. Instead, it is unfortunately weakened by the introduction of something called informal life partnership, which is actually a world precedent that no other country has in its legislation. This precedent is also dangerous because it seriously discriminates against spouses, since the mere statement of one same-sex partner makes it possible for another partner to gain the right to effectively adopt the child of an informal life partner, which is not possible for marriage mates, let alone heterosexual persons in an out-of-marriage community. The introduction of an informal life partnership can also enable someone to come to a shelter for asylum seekers, choose a young victim and say it is his same-sex partner from abroad, and in exchange for homosexual services provide him with express naturalisation, and then only later should they prove that they were in an informal life partnership. That's what this law says. So the bill opens the door to human trafficking, as it will allow children under the age of 18 to import. As a follow-up to the proposed legislation, the right to apply for the approval of temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia has the same gender partners who live in the informal life community, and since the new Penal Code has declared the unpunished sex of a 15-year-old with a 15-year-old child there are all assumptions that, as members of the informal life-sex community, adult relationships with 15-year-old children of the same sex. Does this fit the social values we want to promote? In addition, following Article 3 of the Law proposal, someone can be perfectly legally involved in several informal life partnerships and draw out all the rights as if he were in a marriage or formal life partnership. Isn't that polydria or polygamy? Is this really what we want to encourage in our society? What else is two-faced? It is twofold in the proposal for this law, and it is, in some respects, even a setback in relation to the 2003 Law on Same-Sex Communities. This law was intended to protect and support the emotional integration of homosexuals by describing this community as the life union of two persons of the same sex based on the principles of equality of partners, mutual respect and assistance, and emotional bond between partners. This law ahead of us, the bill of law builds a life partnership only on principles of equality, mutual respect for dignity, mutual assistance and respect for life partners, and there is no sign of emotion, connection, trust and real emotional sharing of life. Does the promoter think that maybe it doesn't matter when communities are of the same sex when he didn't put it into this law? This law will also create great legal uncertainty and open up a lot of legal ambiguities as matter enters into a few dozen other laws of which some are organic. Therefore, the law will be in reality inconclusive and we also warn you in advance. So, instead of really better protecting the rights of the same-sex orientation living in the permanent life community that we hold in order to be positive, there is only a notion that ruling something for them has done and fought despite the alleged conservative majority of the public and the reverse opposition, and in real life, because of their non-compliance with a number of other laws, nothing will, unfortunately, change much. That this is best shown by the fact that there are no criminal or criminal provisions in the bill at all, which makes it quite unique in our legislation. This suggests either that the Government does not care at all about the real application of this law or that it considers the provisions of the law to be inconclusive and inconclusive, so that their violation does not deserve any punishment. Both are bad. However, this is the best evidence that the rulings do not really really care about real mechanisms to ensure a better position of homosexuals living in the life community, but this law serves them only to score points in persons of same-sex orientation and a liberally-oriented part of the public. We find it particularly unacceptable that this law, this bill does not explicitly prohibit the adoption of children by same-sex communities even though government members have repeatedly made public promises to prohibit it in this law. On the contrary, this bill only uses the expressions "participation" instead of "participation" and confidence in the achievement of parental concern for the life partnership. The Croatian public is once again deceived by the ruling because, as in the case of the word marriage and life partnership, it is simply about changing the name for the same content or linguistic engineering. In fact, the law allows de facto even though not deiure adoption. The only difference is that it is not called that, but in reality it is a person who is not a child’s parent who gives all the rights of parents, or adoptors, stepmothers, and stepdads. However, the partner care under the bill is entered in the child’s mother’s birth certificate, and the basis of the partner’s child’s care decision is for parental care and for all the rights and obligations resulting from this. Why, then, has it been repeated for months that this law will not allow the adoption of children? Why is the public being deceived? If giving away all parental rights with enrolment in the child's birth certificate isn't adoption, then what is adoption? And what to say is that Article 68(2) of this Law guarantees, in fact, the right to artificial insemination to live partners of same-sex communities, even if it is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. As a proposer, the government rejected all proposals, including that of HDZ in the first reading of this law, that in the name of freedom and pluralism the right to appeal to the conscience of the official persons, especially the mother and all others, who do not wish to participate in the implementation of this law if they oppose their conscience and their hair with their religious and secular beliefs. Contrary to what the parties of the Kukuriku coalition declare and what they claim to be advocating the collapse of the culture of civil freedoms, pluralism, restrict and severely violate the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms, and the mothers and others who, because of their conscience, oppose the participation of living partnerships or the assignment of children to such partners are actually driven out of public service because they lose their jobs or are roughly forced to step on their own conscience or to give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84168	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84169	The right to object to conscience is guaranteed by many documents and must not be denied. The HDZ requests that this bill be referred to the third reading in order to be corrected, and if it is not accepted, we will submit amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84170	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84171	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague to me is simply an amazing attitude in which human rights should not be debated at a time of crisis and in which a circle of human rights should not be spread at a time of crisis. It's amazing to me that you're actually saying that human rights belong only to the wealthy. And you can be ashamed of that attitude, and you can be very ashamed of it. And as for the violation of the Constitution, a respected colleague of the Constitution knows other forms of family life than marriage. Not only does he know them, he protects them. And you wanted to admit it or not, the same-sex community is also a form of family life. She's a form of family. And the Europe to which we belong protects such a family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84172	Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, I will not, of course, communicate with you in this way to reciprocate who should be ashamed and why. I think I've pretty much argued my views in the sequence that, and the attitudes of my club, the sequence that we're very much in favour of better regulation of the rights of people of homosexual orientation but not in this way in which it's trying to do it or at least show that it's done. You will see, and unfortunately this will also show the implementation of this law, which it will lead to and whether it will really lead to an increase in rights or is true what I said, that it is a blurring of the eyes and creating only points. If you have no criminal provisions for those who violate this law, how do you expect them to implement this law? At least you're a great constitutional expert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84174	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear academic Rainer, I don't know if we've read the same bill, at least I can read it from your debate. But I'm going to go along with my colleague coat of arms and ask you, is it ever a bad time for human rights? I'm telling you, I never tell you. And yesterday it's too late for human rights. You're talking about the number as a criterion for respecting someone's rights, and what criterion would you like to take? GDP? So if we helped a couple live happily and exercise their rights, human rights above all, we helped everyone. Says Talmud, who saved one life, saved the whole world. Comrade, what is the will of the people? You mention the referendum, was the people's will to defend or protect someone's marriage? Marriage is protected, constitutional category, community of women and men. But in the referendum question I haven't read anywhere, are you to forbid others from regulating their relationships? Dear fellow in the last debate, I was paraphrasing a great human rights fighter named Martin Luther King who was talking about America that he was dreaming about. And do you know what kind of Croatia I dream of? I dream of Croatia in which it is important for you to love a person and not for whom sex is that person. And a colleague unfortunately from your debate and from your views will remain only a dream for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84176	Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Hajdukovic with this last sentence of yours, but not with the last part, I absolutely agree, but I don't see what was in what I was saying that was the opposite. We can, you can hide, like a colleague of the coats of arms, behind some kind of sayings, etc. But what exactly are we talking about? We can speak, we protect human rights, etc., but in what way? So look what they determine, really, that determines the provisions of this law. It's not the protection of human rights, it's not the protection or rights of persons in same-sex communities. I repeat, it's a declaration again, it's collecting points, and it's not really protecting the rights of those people. And I say again, it will be seen in law enforcement that it will not be feasible and that obviously neither was the intensity to be feasible but only to show itself like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84178	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84179	Dear colleague Reiner, I didn't mean to replicate to you because I listened to that first debate of yours, and I knew about what the other one would be like. I respect your worldview, but I can't agree with what your colleagues used to say, at first you said, you actually got yourself into a column. Why not pass economic laws, you're not in those words, in a crisis when they attend and sexual minorities. It's never a bad time to protect dignity, dignity, honor of any person's sexual, religious, national worldview, commitment. You were talking about containers, digging through garbage, public kitchens, pensioners who can't live from their pensions, I don't think it's the time and in this topic we're talking about because then we need to look at who's to blame. Who brought Croatia the last 8 years of HDZ authorities and how it ruled. I think it's inappropriate to discuss human rights law in this way, to talk about economics because we have the economy all. I don't know why you didn't have the economy of everything. And the other thing, you said that SDP's newsletter, that SDP's newsletter was HDZ's, and it would become if you came back to power of HDZ again so that you wouldn't happen to think there was a party, just changing the authorities, changing their bosses. So, and the closing sentence, the practice disproves you, the less people believe in marriage, the more you look at your stats and wonder why.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84180	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84181	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow, we're talking about a lot of things. I spoke very clearly of priorities, in any case, that certain things should not be discussed or that it is not the time to debate them, etc., but I made it very clear that in a situation like this there should certainly be other priorities, and I do not see those. And I'm particularly surprised that you, in this way, are discussing who really appears on all subjects, you have something to say about everything, and mostly always, I think, justifiably, bring down the question of people's standards, the question of threats, the increasing number of households, etc. Then I find it very strange that you're changing your attitude at once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84182	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84183	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Reiner, I must admit that I disagree 99.9% with your debate, but they are also a different worldview. But I'm only gonna look back at two things. First, about what you said about asylum and possible manipulation of homosexuals in relation to persons in asylum. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable, but does that mean that you accept that manipulations are by heterosexuals because it's possible now in the same way by heterosexuals. It is one thing and the other that colleagues have already mentioned, and it seems to me that you are very easy to bid with other people's happiness, saying that there are far more important problems than personal happiness. But I'd just say, you mentioned 180 thousand unemployed, digging in containers, pensioners and farmers, do you really think there are no people among the unemployed, homosexuals, no homosexuals among the pensioners and no homosexuals among the farmers? So these same people who live in difficult conditions, there are people who are same-sex orientations. And they're looking for some kind of luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84184	Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84185	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, you didn't listen well to me, obviously that's the result of prejudice, so then you don't listen to what's being said. I was just saying that it doesn't matter whether someone is gay or heterosexual, which really can't and shouldn't be important, but the problem today is that everyone and gay and heterosexual people are having a difficult situation and it hits them equally, that's my word. You obviously didn't listen to me very well. And as for the asylum thing, I totally agree with you, but if something is not settled in one law, instead of making an even bigger mistake in the second law, it's not exactly an argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84186	Shime Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84187	Thank you very much. Well, I think I'm one of the few here who's very happy with the discussion of the HDZ Club's representative, Mr. Reiner, because I've expected earlier experiences that we'll hear about homosexuality as a disease, that we'll hear about the natural order and order of things in nature, that we'll listen to scriptures from the Bible that talk about homosexuality. So over the past 10 years, I think HDZ has made a lot of progress and I believe that for the next 10 years that the discussion will be even better. So, but I don't want to talk about the details, remember, some of them sat there 10 years ago and we had everything to listen to, after all, for years after that debate, there were giants on radio stations from their HDZ colleagues who actually elaborated their view on homosexuality. However, Mr. Reiner, what I have come to, it doesn't matter whether you are satisfied or whether you think this law will not protect and protect the rights of people living in the same-sex community, it's important that people living in the same-sex community, their associations and representatives say that this level of right raises them to the point of what we have today. And please, when we talk about duality and who in this story has two faces, it would be a very long discussion. You can't say in the first sentence of your exposure that you don't have anything against homosexuals, and then in every word, you'll be against it, or against homosexuals, but you'll normally get it backwards, not to say, what an argument. So, I say once again, I congratulate you on your presentation, I am very pleased with how you have progressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84188	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84189	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, I am pleased to have you congratulating me on the matter, and I am pleased that you are pleased with it. I didn't sit here ten years ago, not five years ago, so I can just say what I'm saying right now. And I'm saying something different than what you're trying to insinuate, probably because it doesn't suit you what I said, so you're trying to convince me again, I'm stressing that part of the community that has the same sexual orientation or that it's a more liberal attitude that I've been saying something ugly, let alone that I've spoken against homosexuals. I'm sorry, those were your words that were false, it's not just true, I didn't say it in one single word, I said it exactly the opposite. And I don't think it makes any sense to twist words or to quote differently than it is we're trying to score some points here again. And when we talk about what's right and what's wrong and who's satisfied, who's not satisfied, so we're passing the law here, we're discussing a law here. I hope with the best intention we want to make that law to be the best for those to whom it applies. We can naturally dig into our trenches and each claim that what he thinks is right, you have most, you will raise your hands, but is it really best? I've pointed out the objective problems that exist. Answer me, not anyone, let me answer my proposal so that to all of you how this law will be implemented that has no single criminal provision. Because whatever someone does against that community won't be able to punish themselves, they won't be able to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84190	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84191	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Reiner, I can also say, as Shime also said, that on behalf of HDZ, you have shown that there has been some progress in relation to those discussions that were about 10, 11 years ago, although I personally consider it and I simply must say that since it is the speech of an academic, that part of your presentation is unacceptable to me, I dare say and ashamed, because it is based on the fact that, here now people of the same-sex orientation, different sexual orientations are looking forward to the adoption of this law and to pursue their manipulative and deceitful ideas. When you speak and repeat the thesis that the Government is playing this legislative referendum issue, you only further confirm that the association "In the name of the family" and associations and politicians, individuals who supported this initiative, therefore essentially manipulated the citizens of Croatia because it was likely that it was intended to be accepted in general, and that the Constitution also says that marriage, or marriage, is the only and exclusive family in Croatia. Marriage is an act that we make in front of a parent and/or a priest, so it's an act, a marriage union is a kind of family community. In Croatia, we have an extramarital community, we have same sex communities, I hope that we will have life partnerships, informal life partnerships, single-parent families, these are all forms of family communities and family life, and none of them can have the exclusive right to treat it alone through all other laws and that people living in a kind of family community have exclusive rights, i.e. have more rights than other communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84192	Thank you. Thank you very much. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84193	... Dear Representative Sobol, it's very ugly to speak and to claim that someone said something they didn't say. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Storage Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone.]] So, thank God has the public, everyone has ears so they hear, and to claim that I said that people of same-sex orientations can't wait to run into manipulatives, as you said and contrived their intentions, it's very ugly and below any level. What is now repeated, claiming to be me or that HDZ represents something else than I said, and I made it very clear that not only is HDZ not against better regulation of the relationship between homosexuals living in a permanent life community, but rather that it thinks that these relationships should be strengthened, but in the right way and not by this law, it is just a fact of repeating the truth that you think people will then accept as the truth. I know that the ideologist of your party Lenin was the first to claim that if untruth is repeated repeatedly it becomes true and unfortunately in reality and it is true. If there's a repeated claim more than once, then it becomes people start to take it as the truth, but it's simply not true because I didn't say it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84194	And many use this saying of Lenin. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84195	Dear Mr. Reiner, dear Mr. Academyman, after your discussion of whether or not vivat academia can be more exclaimed. You say that the economic crisis prevents us from discussing human rights, do you know, Mr. Academy, that the economic crisis is, in fact, that the sources of the economic crisis are its sources in greed hypocrisy and duplicity. You're saying HDZ is against this law because it's two-faced, the government is two-faced, you've repeated it several times. And I can tell you that just those who attack such a law are and with such arguments essentially show two-facedness in themselves and the defense is essentially because such arguments are actually the defense of discrimination itself. Those who attack in fact this law and such a community essentially avenge themselves for their weak faith in the Institute of Marriage do not respect either their own or other freedoms. And let me remind you, the Pope said, "Who am I to judge, being gay is not a sin. They must not be marginalised but integrated into society. That orientation is not a problem, we must be brothers", so Mr. Katekism is in the hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84196	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the distinguished colleagues again, of course, verbal flashes, claims that have not been made on my part, and I will say again, I never said that this should not be debated because it is an economically difficult situation in the country. I said it's certainly not a priority, that's what I said. And all you're doing is wonderful, especially I liked this when you were just quoting Pope Francis. But what's the problem? Well, that all goes with what I said, only you want to interpret it in a completely different way, again I say to manipulate the facts that I put out and to appear as the protectors of that community versus some evil, conservative HDZ which simply isn't true. We want ten times I guess I'll repeat, better protect rights, improve those rights, but this law doesn't do it, and everyone has to be aware of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84198	Thank you, too. Dear representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84199	Dear colleague Reiner, you said that the Constitutional Court has declared an unconstitutional family law. incorrectly, read the Web pages of the Constitutional Court, saying that it is a report on the final provisions not to resolve the constitutionality or anything else. And while you are already on the web pages of the Constitutional Court to read exactly what the Constitutional Court has found about Family Law, read the constitutional court's statement on the definition of marriage and the last paragraph of that statement, which is already a bit of a citre that says that the results of the referendum cannot and must not in any way affect this matter that we are talking about today. There are no criminal provisions in the Family Law for no reason either because it is all expensively settled in the Penal Code where you have special chapters of duck heads that speak, for example, of criminal acts against personal freedoms against privacy, of honor and respect, of sexual freedom, of crimes against marriage, of family and children, of human rights, of fundamental freedoms, etc. So it's in the Penal Code that it's all settled together. On the other hand, it was kind of scary for me to listen to you and not so personal as to say on behalf of the club on behalf of your party who is as big a party as you have brought out both ignorance and misunderstandings and intolerances, manipulations of the thesis, turns and then direct insults to all those who are not like you. I don't think there's room for this debate if there's no need, and I'd also like to hear how you would handle it if not with this law and in this way because you've said a lot of things but that's what you haven't been able to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84200	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we'll do it in a row. The first report of the Constitutional Court, then clearly returned that law that must or this Assembly had changed it very clearly and until then it was not worth it. So the thing is quite clear. If it's called a report or a decision is completely irrelevant, the effect is the same. It is interesting, however, that your claim that there are no criminal provisions here doesn't matter because they are in the Penal Code, excellent. And why is it that here in this law is covered by articles 40 to 79. Matters which have been resolved in a number of other laws, and this law is neither a situs of matter, nor a lex specialis for children's rights, prohibition of discrimination, mandatory relations, ownership, other real rights, copyright and similar rights, inheritance, income tax, property tax, life pension and health insurance, asylum, foreigners, social care, work, residence, Croatian citizenship, all these provisions are completely meaninglessly forced into this law although they exist in other laws. That doesn't bother you, but an excuse for not introducing the necessary criminal provisions that would guarantee that the real provisions of this law will be implemented in real life then it doesn't matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84202	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica. Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84203	Among other things, you mentioned the Law on Same-Sex Communities adopted in 2003 and, in fact, if there were problems or some elemental problems related to same-sex communities, issues of ownership, real estate issues, hospital visits and some other things, this could have been resolved by amendments and additions to the same law rather than by passing new laws. If you remember after a referendum held in December of the month, and in particular the results of this referendum, although the entire Government and the President of the Republic included the referendum, you remember that their Minister of Social Policy and Youth and also the Deputy Prime Minister literally said: "Without this result we will because we have a sufficient majority in the Assembly to pass this law."you will believe and happen there is no doubt about it. And on this point, on the progress of us, or the return of the SDP, I am sorry to say so, but that is so, the SDP, or the Communist party, or communists, have treated same-sex communities, i.e. gay people, in a way that they have deported them to Stara Gradiška, Lepoglav and Goli Island. So much for progress, so much for progress, but that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84204	Replication response, Honored Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Babić, you have actually rightly said what we pointed out when we first read and what is also the answer and colleague Lugarić who has now gone and asked me what our proposals are. And we made these proposals clear, and we made these proposals clear in our first reading when we said that it seemed much better to supplement the existing law that could and had to extend the rights of same-sex communities for unknown reasons, whether these are the reasons that you fellow Babic state or not, I will not now refuse to do so and insist on this law, which unfortunately I repeat once again will not guarantee a better situation for people in such communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84206	Thank you, too. It is next to the replica of the respected representative Grubisic. I just don't know which one? Boro Grubisic, please, thank you. [[Intruder: Bore.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84207	This one, and there's Mr. Don Ivan. Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will comment differently on this debate of yours, and I would say that the problems and consequences that will arise from the possible application of this law, which will clearly be decided by the majority, as said by the Minister of Social Care, to adopt whatever we think or do or whatever the outcome of the referendum was. So you talked about the things that arise as a consequence of the articles, that is, the text in this legislative proposal. And there you were relatively objective and talking about the difference, actually about what it was about being a family and what it was, or marriage and what it was about being a life partnership. So when there is a provision in the Penal Code, the criminal provision therefore that the crime is discrimination and there is a certain difference, mainly in obligations in marriage and in life partnership, so loyalty, respect, coherent family relations, helping each other and not having to be a common place for everyone else... Different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What makes this law a little paradoxical, says a little bit, not bearing the name and being the final proposal of a law on the life partnership of a person of the same or different sex? So let people choose which kind of community they'll have. So why would it be reserved exclusively if there was no discrimination for persons of the same sex, why not a different sex? Let's just ask ourselves this simply too much to say. The second thing, in this text of the bill, and you may have seen it, but you didn't say, we have constantly, so the name of this law is Here's just a sentence, a life partnership of the same sex, but nowhere else in the legal text is this person of the same sex, just a life partnership. [[Thank you very much. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84208	Replication response, Honored Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well esteemed colleague Grubisic, it is true, it is one of the problems that put something in the title that is later systematically not mentioned throughout the text. It can reopen a whole series of problems and dilemmas in implementing this law. And that's what I pointed to. This law has a series of holes, so to speak, a series of wrong premises, a series of poorly-placed things that will actually allow different interpretations of his or her kind that will lead to enormous problems which, as I said, raise questions and the right of the mothermaker, let's say, and others to appeal to consciences, etc., etc. But it also endangers the rights of individuals who would sincerely create such a permanent community, a formal community, is particularly completely disabling with this concept of fluid, vague, informal community that ultimately devalues all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84210	Thank you, too. Dear Vice President of the House, Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84211	Asked what he thought about this subject, Pope Francis said, if one person truly loves and respects another person of the same sex, no matter who I am to judge him. You academic Rainer want to be more Catholic than Pope. You judge them, you judge them, and the judgment is very severe. It bothers you that many provisions of the Family Law apply to the same-sex community. You wouldn't let homosexual communities create a family. This is the law on human rights and nothing else. This law gives rights that have so far been reserved only for the heterosexual community to homosexual communities. This is the law on human rights and because a minority group is given human rights, you are against that law. That's what's bothering you. It's a traditional HDZ relationship to minorities, any minority. You want to say better to protect the rights of homosexual communities. So why didn't you do it, you had eight years of time. Why didn't you write a law that would do it better than this law does? And you're calling someone a hypocrite? Well, if you really wanted to do it, you could. You didn't because you didn't want to. You're saying you should provide a conscience call for the parents. Oh, no, you don't. An appeal to the conscience that one does not allow human rights to be exercised. So what's next? Will you ask for a conscience call for truck drivers so they don't carry colored people?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84212	Replication response, Honored Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84213	Your Honor, Mr. President. I say again, we can talk here with arguments, or we can hit on the floscules, phrases that sometimes echo well in public, in one part of the public, but let's talk with the arguments. You say calling a conscience isn't a good thing, that's what you said. It's something someone doesn't care about, etc. So, the appeal to conscience is something guaranteed by a number of documents, something guaranteed by documents, from the UN General Declaration of Human Rights to the UN Convention on the Protection of Workers' Rights, Migrants and Family Members, etc. What are you afraid of here, why the freedom of an individual is stifled, you always claim that you are for this and why you deny the right to a conscience which is one of the real rights guaranteed by international documents to parents, the place to have it in the same way that it is guaranteed to soldiers, health and health care professionals in artificial insemination, doctors, dentists, nurses, etc. How in those cases isn't a human rights choking, and this is where it would be? Well, we've got enough matrimonials to choose from, and one of them will define himself, and one will do it, and the other will appeal to the call of conscience. So I don't see any problem here at all, except for what's being manipulated by the public attitude where you're showing up as advanced, and we're supposed to be backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84214	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. ... All right, all right, Minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You always have the opportunity to come forward and put your mind at rest. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84215	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start at the end, from the last sentence of Vice President Reiner on the replica of Mr. Stazic, which is that we want to show ourselves advanced and some others vice versa. In Split, at the start of the election campaign for the European Parliament, HDZ Vice-President Dubravka Shuica said: when it comes to homosexuals, we had problems because European countries are a little more advanced, so we remained downplayed in our positions. Who here wanted to show up to the advanced, and who wanted to show up backwards? So this is an opportunity to allow your vice president not to be red anymore because others are advanced, so I understood what she said and that this question that will be resolved by this law as in most Western European countries and solved almost exactly the same as in Slovenia, Austria, Germany and it seems to me to Slovakia, so support it and to amend it and fix it. As for the quote of Pope Francis, I'll quote one another to Francis. In his working environment, he had two or three such people, and he worked with them without a problem. He definitely knew they were homosexuals and he said, "My God, we need to accept that fact and that's it." It's a quote from an interview by a close associate of President Tudjman. Therefore, there is a wide range of statements by HDZ people that say that they are for this and that they are for the legal arrangement and conclusion and rights of same-sex communities, that they have no objection, therefore they should accept that fact and that is exactly what we have proposed in the second reading in the Croatian Parliament. Is every detail on the trail I don't know, but it's generally on the trail. I'm actually happy with what you said because I was afraid that my party colleagues would accuse me of writing a law that was written in the middle of the HDZ, because what your leaders advocated is exactly what it says in the law. So there is no right to adopt children, no name of marriage, and other rights are arranged. If there's any details that can be fixed, fine. As for spins, public manipulations, etc., contrary to spins that a referendum is discriminated against, that's not going to happen. It was a political game that was not good and it was pointed out that our friends, neighbors and relatives are different sexual orientations and should not worry because their human rights must be protected and HDZ will be the first to protect them if and the right to diversity. That's what you said, Mr. Vice President, here you are not the first. Maybe that's why you won't accept the law because we're first, you'd be second if you joined our proposal, but don't defend the LGBT community more than they want. This law is on the verge of a democratic compromise. When Mr. Djurovic asked who and what kind of person I answered, he was on the trail of a democratic compromise with people who have different attitudes, who are somewhat more cautious in the issues concerning the arrangements of relations with children. And this law pleases it to be a democratic compromise. Such discussions were likely held in other European parliaments in previous years. Those in the West were led years ago, and I believe that in Eastern Europe and the East, east of us in the coming years, that they might be similar and that in the end it will all end up the way it ended in Western European countries. And here, once again, I express my willingness to consider all the proposals that would fix this law independently of who they come from. If there are amendments that are acceptable we will accept them. That's what we do with all the other laws and there's no problem. And as for rhetoric and the rest, so as Mr. Lucin said, he was pleased about rhetoric. It's a matter of taste. Royce's statements were still more striking in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84216	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We still have a few replicas. The first replica of the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, first of all, one correction. You said this law dealt with it as in most European countries. That's not true. I have made it very clear, for example, that what is written in this law on informal same-sex communities does not exist in any other European law. Just enough to make it right. I'm glad you quoted something that spoke about the president, Dr. President. Francis Tudjman. I'm glad you commended me for representing the attitudes of the LGBT community, because that's something that's exactly the opposite of what some of your colleagues were saying. They wanted to portray me and my party as some kind of homophone, I suppose, a party that is against that community simply because we pointed to the weak points of this law, very clearly, very argumentative. And I'm glad you recognized my good intentions regarding both this community and this law. And as you yourself said that, we are, I have officially suggested this and we will propose that the law goes into third reading so that what in it in our opinion is not well fixed, so that a consensus can be reached. If you refuse, we will propose amendments. I hope that you, as you have now said at the pay phone, will consider these amendments and accept. It is not true, unfortunately, that you accept the amendments otherwise, ad limidem, you reject almost all the amendments. I would be very pleased if you would accept the amendments that we will propose in connection with this law and we will be very happy then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84218	Thank you, too. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84219	As far as the details are concerned, so in certain provisions, given the five minutes this is between, so it's very difficult to refer to everything. But how it is likely that individual items of the law will then be mentioned in the amendments at the time of the interpretation, acceptance or if the non-admission of amendments happens, then I will make an additional argument. So when I talked about most European countries, I said that the law would be similar to what we have in Slovenia, Austria and Germany, and I think I mentioned Slovakia, but I'm not sure about it. It's kind of a country whose circle here I think is our place. We don't have to be like France and Spain, so they're in another situation right now. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think I've said that you represent the attitudes of the LGBT community, but I urge you not to defend them more than yourself. That's exactly what I said, and since the representatives of the LGBT community participated in the draft law, we've respected some of their views, and we're not like most other attitudes. That's what I was talking about in the opening statement. As far as the party's characterization is concerned, I'm staying away from characterising the party as any party. I can talk about individual statements by individuals and parties, including the policy of a party that is changing though. We have parties who say to themselves that it wasn't the ones who were yesterday and it should be accepted, so I wouldn't talk about the party, about 2,000 members. And I quoted some individuals whose statements I could, therefore, agree with, not entirely, but in one tolerant part of respecting what they said and wanting to reach a compromise proposed something that was on the trail of what they said. But you said the exact opposite of them, so I wouldn't characterize you in that sense either. I guess somewhere in the middle is true, and most likely it concerns the party's daily political interests. But it's also part of a political game.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84220	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84221	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, it somehow seems to me that you mention quite a lot the Constitution, but somehow a weak law on the repression of discrimination that we have brought in 2008. I think it would be good to mention him as much as possible today. Why? Perhaps many have forgotten, and perhaps some do not know the Law on Discussing Discrimination, which is one of the basis, and for today’s debate was one of the conditions for opening a chapter. So that was the standard, the European Commission has asked for exactly the law, although we have spoken that our Constitution and that is, of course, the fact guarantees all human rights and every human dignity to every citizen and every citizen. But they were looking for a special law. So, if we hadn't passed that law, we wouldn't be a member of the EU today. Why? Because we wouldn't open that chapter, we wouldn't close it, and then of course we wouldn't finish the negotiations. You also mentioned discussions that were held naturally in many European parliaments of the European Member States of the EU. I agree with you. I would mention a sentence by David Cameron, a conservative from March of this year following the first partnership of the same-sex in the UK who said, I will paraphrase not exactly from word to word, but what I'm about to say is his message. If laws prevent love, then laws should be changed. And all those who think that the law we are discussing is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia despite the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which is repeatedly cited today, should be instructed to make a final decision immediately after the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84222	Thank you very much. No answer? There is. [[Intruder: There is, there is.]] Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84223	As for the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, I can remember which criticism you were exposed to in your own party when you proposed it, first as Minister or Vice-President of the Government, it was adopted in 2008 and it seems to me that, therefore, you had some criticism. And not only that law, and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, or its application, was one of the criteria before 2003, but you can see that today we had to discuss minority rights, a referendum on minority rights, the rights of national minorities. But it's all part of some kind of day policy that's not good, but it still needs to be pointed out. So, if in one neutral situation someone makes a statement and behaves a rather high party function that what we propose is acceptable to him, and then when it comes to the concreteisation of the record and asks for 1,000 ways of why something should not be accepted, then I can express my suspicion that these intentions in acceptance were not sincere, that they are conditioned by some other circumstances and thus this is about suppressing discrimination. Probably one part of the MP who then raised his hand because he had to do it for Europe and not because he believed it. And perhaps it is good that in Croatia there will still be more people who will raise their hands for this law because they believe because no one is pushing us now, so this is our human and moral obligation to make one part of our citizens easier because this law allows one minority to live a better life, and most will not make it worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84224	Thank you, Minister. We're going to a meeting with the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84225	Here is Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs, so I will try not to repeat those thematics that have been said so far but to make my contribution in some other elements which may not have been touched or presented by the predecessors, justified contrary to those who, in my opinion, are not actually correct. So let's just go back to the content of this law once more. So he defines for persons of the same sex, two men or two adult women who are not related under 1) informal life partnership, it's a de facto pandan of the extramarital community and under 2) life partnership, it's a de facto marriage. It's not deura, but it's de facto, it's the same marriage other than children. So, these two people who enter the life partnership show up to the mother, schedule a wedding date, we have a mother, we have godmothers, we have to meet formal-legal conditions, we have a last name takeover and we have an introduction into the register, or queen, wedding, photographers, I guess cake, so we have wedding content, and we put this community in an equal relationship with marriage. Why do we return all the time to the issue of constitutional definition of marriage and the installation of marriage in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as a community of women and men? Did we protect the notion of what you want to show us or protect the content? So, did we just say writing marriage community men and women and behind that is not content. Any other content identical to that, which is not called marriage we will, will be acceptable to us. I deeply believe that in this way the content of marriage, the installation of the content of marriage, is just that it is not called marriage and that it is anti-constitutional in relation to the now incorporated provision of the Constitution that marriage is a community of women and men. Of course, I'm not a constitutional expert or a judge of the Constitutional Court, but I'm sure a constitutional suit will come if this is the law, so we'll see how and how it will be defined. This is one aspect, meaning only the conclusion of marriages, i.e. as a life partnership in this formal form. The second question is whether he's gay, whether he's heterosexual, whether he's bisexual, whether he's like this, whether he's gay or a fifth. It's importantly different from the formalization of the community in which he lives. And of course I think, so that's my opinion now, and I'm really not the kind of person who would take judgment on anyone for what he is, or his sexual proclivities. And I think that so many colleagues of Reiner were actually misjudged or perhaps he was a little clumsy in his debate because I think this was actually about a relationship to a formal law defined by a community of identical marriage, which is why most Croatian citizens actually clearly wanted to protect him in the referendum. So they didn't want to protect the name of marriage, they wanted to protect the content of marriage to remain for a man and a woman, not for two men or two women. So, I'll be open to the end, protecting the institution of relations is not a question of my attitude towards man and his sexual proclivity, it really isn't. How many people were in that referendum? Let us remind ourselves once again, when we are reminded of the data, 946 433 citizens of the Republic of Croatia voted in favour. You took over as the Kukuriku coalition, full power in the Republic of Croatia with 958 318 votes from Croatian citizens. So don't just say what percentage it is, let's look at real numbers and let's not say that I don't know this much or that much. So it's something less people, it's clearly said what it wants. They didn't say we don't like these people, we don't like their way of life. No, they said we want to protect the institution of marriage and its contents as something that remains for a man and a woman. In the first reading, I made you a proposal, of course you didn't even explain it to him, because he's not really in the spirit of this law, that's when it comes to the conclusion of that community or marriage, why must the community necessarily be made in front of the parent? What do we really want, do we want the pandan of marriage at all costs, the parent, the flowers, the godfathers and everything else, or do we want as a state to protect that community so that those in it can exercise their rights? If this is what we want, then we can do it equally, for example, through an administrative procedure in which the two persons will apply to the State Office, the Office of the State Administration, and it issues a solution for them to be in that community. They can draw from this community these common rights that they have mutually realised, property, inheritance, taxes, social care, health insurance. I can say on behalf of the HDSSB club that we would have nothing against it, but what we have and we will have, it is your political decision that in a democratic compromise with those you chose to make a decision to play the constitutional will of the Croatian people in a referendum. And marriage is not a word, marriage is content. The Croatian people said that they wanted to keep the content for the community of men and women and that they did not want to, and specifically said they did not want to leave that content to the community of two women and two men. And in doing so, I don't discriminate against anyone, nor do I think that those citizens who went out on a referendum, nor do they, were thinking about wanting to discriminate on someone as a man in any way. But here we don't agree or understand each other, whatever you want. When it comes to objecting to advice, I will remind your objection to conscience, it is the moment when I feel that my conscience does not allow me to do anything. Speaking of myself, I can say my Christian conscience. Which won't allow a gynecologist to make an abortion, his conscience will allow it to happen to someone else and we've passed it by law. I remind you that since 2000, your government has been a few years after the end of the bloody war in which the Croatian state has created an objection to the conscience of Croatian young people not to serve the military deadline, to tell me my conscience does not allow me to carry a rifle. In the country only a few years after that state was created. And you accepted, you closed your eyes, thousands of young people signed paper that their conscience would no longer allow them to carry a rifle in the Croatian state and serve the Croatian Army. And you won't let your mother tell me my conscience won't allow me to participate in the marriage of two men or two women. So let that man, it's not interference in the public service, someone else will, someone else will. What's the problem, I still can't understand it. Maybe I'm thinking the wrong way. So that's the question of this objection advice. Let me draw on the law itself, although there is a lot of it, for example Article 71, Article 71 of the prohibition of discrimination which has also not been mentioned, paragraph 2. So where insurance companies are not allowed to put themselves in an unfavourable position of persons in a life partnership. Insurance companies estimate people in certain types of insurance with regard to a number of parameters, do not estimate them either, given the age when life insurance is involved, nor if they are ill, of course, they will assess them differently. They are not assessed in terms of gender because women live statistically longer than men, they are not assessed according to the property status in some forms of insurance. And then I want to tell you that you're actually on some, I don't see the point of private health insurance, none of them being state-owned, that you only forbid them not to be evaluable given their marital status or being in a life partnership. I mean, it's a private, profitable society that has their client assessment parameters in any kind or some insurance package, and I don't see exactly what the goal is to tell them that this is one criterion by which they can't make a difference between people because otherwise they make differences across a series of criteria. So, I'm saying, if you make life insurance then he'll make a difference in terms of your lifetime, so you won't be able to have the same insurance package to make at 30 or 60 years old, or he'll ask for medical records, so he'll see how sick you are to assess health risk and the height of a policy. Well then, I don't see here exactly what was actually meant to be protected here, just a substantive observation like this. Otherwise, we will actually try to give a certain number of amendments, although in this substantive sense this part of marriage, so making a fictional marriage, and de facto making marriages in front of a parent, we feel that it is not acceptable and that the opposite part, this set of marriages, is in no way and we cannot agree with it. This part about the rights that can come from the fact that two people of homosexual orientation live together, so the rights that they can achieve, around them, we don't actually have any more serious objections, but this part we won't be able to accept. Of course, part three, I was talking about it in my first reading, so I don't think there's a need to go back, and that's the problem of this partner's concern, which, of course, there's a variety of interpretations, although, if we're going to be honest, of course, no one in the law can drive all the possible variations that can happen. But in principle, this position is that a person who is not a parent of a child can gain the status of another parent, but is not in any blood relationship and blood relation to that child, so he is not a parent. In total, we also find that position unacceptable. So the HDSSB club won't accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84226	Thank you, Your Honor. Your presentations interested ten MPs to give you a replica. Now we'll go in order. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84227	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm going to take a turn, so the first thing that's been said more than once, but obviously today we're going to have to do it again all day. Thus, in its statement on 14 November 2013, the Constitutional Court states, the right to respect for family life, the Constitution guarantees all persons regardless of gender and gender and is under the direct protection of the Constitutional Court and of the European Court of Human Rights. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court considers it necessary to highlight the following, possible addition of the Constitution to a provision under which marriage is the life union of a woman and a man must have no effect on further development of the legal frameworks of a non-marriage and same-sex community in accordance with the Constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic has the right to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and their human dignity. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia recognises the two persons of the same sex as the family community and requires legal protection. That's what we're doing now. Why does such a community come together in front of a parent? Because I am based on Article 4. The Law on state-owned queens handles the personal affairs of citizens The Office of State Administration in the County, that is, the City Office of the City of Zagreb, which is directly run by civil servants, not public notebooks, but parents. It's prescribed by law, it's very clear. And why can such civil servants, or parents, not object to a conscience? For the purposes of Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, The Law on civil servants and tenants stipulates that civil servants are obliged and obliged to act in accordance with the law and are obliged to enforce the law at their place of employment. If something is prescribed by law, a civil servant is obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84228	Thank you, too. Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84229	Yes, my colleague, I do not hold that my debate in any part was contradictory with that statement by the Constitutional Court that you are calling upon. It's one thing, and another thing about personal conscience issues, conscience issues, and so on. The rule of law, and every state is legal or if it has constitutionally regulated laws, is a question that has actually been happening in various societies for decades, in various systems, but I hold that a personal conscience is a fundamental human criterion that should be guided by procedures, sometimes if sanctions are to be filed if what it does does does does not actually do in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84230	Thank you, too. Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, dear colleague Djurovic, first of all, let me look back on what you said that perhaps the representatives of the position misunderstood me in some segments. They didn't get me wrong, they understood me well, they just used it to twist my words and try to push through some of their own thesis that was completely different than what I was saying. But I have to say something about what you were saying about objecting to my conscience, and now I've been encouraged by a respected representative... when he asked you that, he quoted the Law on civil servants, so let me quote it. So the parents must knowingly perform their duty. Consciously, therefore, according to his conscience he says in that law, otherwise they are responsible for minor or serious violations of official duty, and thus the law says that they must act by their conscience, and the conscience is defined as a personal, moral sense of good and evil, and now why deny them this? Next, what are we going to deny them? It is interesting that those who now wish to deny their parents did not object when one judge was promoted as a media star who said that because of his conscience he could not participate in the work of the electoral commission in the implementation of the marriage referendum, over which the silence passed, he was replaced by another judge and there no one mentioned the problem of whether the judge could say a complaint to the conscience or not. That went silently. Now all of a sudden, the only ones want to deny the right to object to their conscience, which is contrary to international documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84232	Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84233	Yes, I think that there is if we are going to honestly and populate some kind of system of value, and then maybe there's a little bit of time apart and actually the fact that participation in a marriage of two people of the same sex doesn't represent something that is as Christian value in my opinion, it doesn't. On the other hand, of course, I am neither invited nor invited to judge anyone, judge, or value him in view of his sexual inclination and orientation and lifestyle and so forth. But that's two different concepts, one to participate in it, and another to accept that there exists in the world around us, among people, and therefore to treat it with complete respect. And for that reason, there is no particular reason for either the proponent or the ruling majority to persist so much in that they will screw up every single mothermaker and that he will have to make same - sex marriages, there is really no reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84234	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84235	I would not report with three things that require a kind of comment and a request not to discuss it if it is no longer the place. The first question is the constitutional definition of marriage and relationship of that definition under this law. The constitution has established the definition of marriage, and if someone wants to dispute this law as Mrs. Kosor has said, legal opportunities are at his disposal. Any other interpretation I hear here is actually a denial of independence, of trust with the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, but the Constitutional Court is such an institution that rests on trust and our respect for their decisions, that should continue. The second thing I'm reporting for is the fact that this law doesn't regulate the relationship that you've listed here, who's going to make and what kind of cake you're going to make. This law is based on the idea of freedom, which is the idea that man chooses for himself. And you also said that you're an advocate of who and how you'll maintain relationships. However, this law wants to regulate these relations in those things where there is no full freedom of choice. Those who are not marriage partners do not have some opportunities that the law now gives to same - sex communities and thus regulates what would otherwise be the restriction of freedom so far. And thirdly, I'm sorry, Mr. Rainer, but you're misreading the term consciously doing the job. This is not about the conscience of Article 9 of the Freedom of Opinion and Consciousness of the European Convention, but it is about the very clear requirements for the job to be carried out in accordance with the service, the rules of the profession. And in this case, it means according to the law. The case of a Zadar judge is not appropriate because he did not refuse to perform a judicial duty which is his obligation, to apply the law, he refused to be a member of a body which is his right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84236	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84237	You're telling your colleague that this law is essentially a civil initiative and the results of the referendum. However, I will remind you because the content of this law is almost identical to marriage and marriage. I remind you that the initiative had this referendum question, "Are you to define that marriage is a union of men and women and as such enters the Constitution?" You need to distinguish between what a marriage is, so there are people who are married not in the marriage community or those who live together and are not married. Furthermore, when you talk about objecting to your conscience you also call for your Christian beliefs, which is quite fine, but then since you did not object that the parent concludes marriage at all because it is not a sacred sacrament and it does not mean anything before the Church, such people are not married to the Church at all. So that's what you should have thought about when you said and discussed it that way. And it's a miracle that you're just bound by the sanctity of marriage and sacrament by a bouquet and cake because that's the privilege of just such people and that no other community should have cake and bouquets during their ceremony because that's what marriage is all about and that's what you understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84238	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Djurovic, I agree with your conclusion that all those who triggered the referendum on marriage wanted to protect you as you said marriage between a man and a woman. The referendum was successful, it was introduced into the Constitution as it was intended. However, all those who interpreted the proposal were likely referring to a marriage between one man and one woman. I'm talking about why, of course, this debate is not deprived of its own kind of hypocrisy, and when we talk about marriage and the sanctity of marriage and marriage in the Constitution and so on, so we should also talk about it. However, I will not read the Constitutional Court's decision now, I think that the Constitutional Court here confirmed the fact that this definition can be incorporated into the Constitution despite the existence of the Family Law, but the Constitutional Court has clearly indicated a framework in which it will primarily move in the future and the Croatian Parliament, so this institution where laws are passed and it is very clear that this definition is incorporated into the Constitution in no way will prevent legislators and that we are to regulate laws that apply and then the Constitutional Court lists it in order. And as for the appeal of a conscience that would allow civil servants, I'm just putting into your mind the fact that it's possible that if the conscience of a civil servant were possible in this case that perhaps then the appeal of conscience might be possible in another case that the Pandora's box is opened and that the mother once said she wouldn't, for example. to marry a man and woman who belong to a particular political party, for example because he believes that the political party, its leadership, its projects, its programme in no way is in line with the beliefs of the mother or mother with its world-controlled or world-controlled parent, and that would create really big problems. Therefore, civil servants, as has been said, have a law under this law and certainly must always move within the framework of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84240	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84241	So I think that this example is a little bit of a strain because it's still unrealistic situations, and conscience is one thing and the attitudes that we have are something else, about anything or anyone. But you reminded me of something else, imagine that Croatian officials or parents or all state officials had the possibility of objecting to the conscience so that since the establishment of the Croatian state to date they did not have to participate in a variety of things that they had to participate in and that they had to work because they were employees and could not refuse the orders of their bosses, leaders, captains and others, so perhaps Croatian society would be better than today and the Croatian state may have been less stolen than it is today. Who's gonna know. So people, for example, could not sign a lot of things, not say no, not put them in a drawer or anything like that. So a lot of things are done by the orders of their superiors, unfortunately all these years, and they had to do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84242	Thank you very much. Dear representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84243	Dear counterpart Djurovic, I wanted to say this about the Constitutional Court and everything, but a colleague of Grbin, Kregar, a colleague of Anticevic, said so, so I won't talk about it. However, I think we need to discuss this appeal of conscience a little bit, manipulation, in fact, with the right to appeal of conscience. So, the unquestionable right of everyone is the right to a conscience, you have well said that it is regulated by many international documents, etc. It is indisputable that the courts of conscience are based on a moral imperative that can reflect a political, religious, philosophical, or any other belief of man. However, this, like any other right, has its other side of the medal which is a kind of obligation. The appeal of conscience has only one restriction, which is that it cannot be applied if it endangers or excludes the rights of other mad people. You're a doctor, an appeal of conscience to a doctor is not me, I have an appeal to conscience. This Regulation shall enter The medical law says that the appeal of conscience is permitted only if it does not conflict with the rules of the profession or if it does not cause lasting consequences for the health or endangers the life of the patient. So the appeal of conscience is not absolutely right. His limitations are in respect of other people's rights. And that is why the appeal of the trustee cannot be allowed because it endangers the right of other people or citizens defined by this law. Of course, all those other legal arguments that my colleagues made. So, I'm just asking you not to flaunt important rights lightly because every right has its own right to say so, it has its own fence. There are no absolute rights that are devastating in front of everything and in front of everyone and thus neither is the call of conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84244	Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84245	You're endangering life and health as a moment of recall, calling your conscience connected with the right to what? Right to marriage. I don't think those two things are anywhere near each other, and on the other hand, you've put this theme as something that's at the heart of the human rights problem. Or let me put it this way until the end. As far as I know or as far as I've been able to read and hear marriage is not a human right. And I think that there are judgments of international courts that have defined that marriage, or marriage, does not fall within the fundamental human rights of those who are taxed. Thus, in some judgments, the question of whether they or they can conclude marriage was not interpreted as acceptance or as a violation of their human rights. I think it's the International Court of Justice. Therefore, whether someone is going to make a marriage, not make a marriage, like this, in which form they will be arranged or we will, or we will not allow the same-sex partners to conclude a marriage to be a violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84246	Dear Vice President of the House, Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84247	Thank you, Mr. President. When you spoke during the debate, you mentioned a referendum and a referendum on marriage. It can be read out of yours, said perhaps even a disappointing attitude, you asked yourself the question of the purpose of the referendum and it was spent somewhere around 40 million kuna, namely, like we didn't get what we were looking for. You asked a question of content or form. The form is precisely defined as being married in the Constitution. The content of marriage is defined by marriage mates. We are all more or less married or in this or that, so content cannot be defined by the Constitution or by law in a way that is the true content of marriage and that makes marriage what it is. The question of what the citizens wanted, so apparently the citizens were manipulated by this referendum or by part of the citizens who came out, and it is very well known who launched the initiative and who were all these manipulators who provided the state budget with 40 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84248	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84249	When it comes to purpose, I think that Croatian citizens today are asking a lot more about the purpose of money spent on elections and city, municipal, county, and, in particular, the state elections and asking us to actually do something about it so that they see that they are actually more meaningful in spending money and parliamentary elections than they have spent so far. And when it comes to manipulation, I don't think there was any manipulation, or I'm experiencing it, and that referendum has achieved two goals in any way. The first goal is to show that the civic will or the will of most citizens can be achieved despite either the wish or the will of a ruling majority who does not want it. So this is actually the victory of the Croatian citizen on the one hand and, on the other hand, it was a very clear indication that it was actually good to leave the possibility for Croatian citizens, whether through a referendum or later through amendments to electoral legislation or election models or everything else, actually even more open space for Croatian citizens to be able to participate more significantly in decision-making. Because such decisions as this law and this law are actually made in a very narrow circle, in a very narrow circle. What is this circle I do not know, but it is very small and represents only one group that gives itself the right to actually determine in the future most Croatian citizens in what way and how and where they will live. And that's what a small majority shouldn't take for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84250	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Đurović, you said one thesis that was at first understandable to me, which is that you are ready to accept all the legal provisions of mutual relations in this community, but that you are not ready to accept the equality of content, so you started talking about how this community is concluded, so talk about the parent, the godfather and the rest. The content of any community is not a ceremony. It lasts very briefly, and the community lasts relatively long or much longer. So if we've all accepted and it's a civilizational reach that the extramarital and marriage communities are the same, equal to the law, and they differ in shape because one is concluded with a ceremony, the other is not, then you're wrong. In this particular case, therefore, the conclusion of a life partnership involves a certain ceremony that is partly and different because otherwise there would be one mother-in-law, one father-in-law, one mother-in-law, and there is no such thing as two everywhere. It is definitely clear, therefore, that when you say that you want to agree on the arrangement of internal relations, that the HDSSB actually has nothing against the content of this format, and that it has an anti-Berry. Is that really important, and it takes 10 minutes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84252	Dear Representative Marin... Have you answered the reply to the replica? I didn't see it. ... Well done, I trust Goran Beus Richembergh. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84253	So a colleague who I am or who any of us is that he can judge or judge or that he can tell two, two women who live for 20 years that they can't come to each other's hospital, inherit a pension, achieve health care and any of that. I really don't feel invited to be the one to forbid it. But this act of getting married and formalizing that community in this way that happens as a marriage, what's that for? So I think it is unconstitutional, that it is contrary to Croatian traditions, that the vast majority of Croatian citizens are against it. So it is actually the will and desire of a minority who now sees this as an obvious first step towards some other goals that they have put aside for now. So the content of this relationship and the rights and the possibility that these people live normally and that they have the living and human rights to, but not marriage, not marriage and not children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84254	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84255	Thank you. My colleague Đurović, you have spoken here on several occasions about love, and it is a slippery terrain when it comes to love and law. You have referred to Christian values, so I will quote to the Corinthians and one sentence out of it, saying, "Love does not rejoice in injustice, but rejoices in the truth." The truth is, there is love between human beings of the same sex. That's true. The truth is you can't declare love as an unconstitutional category. True, love is in the epicenter and Christian values. And I really don't understand why, and that's what you just said earlier, that you don't seem to mind in principle that two people love each other, so they're the same sex, that they live 20 years together, so they're the same sex, that they go to each other in the hospital, and they're the same sex. But it bothers you to call it a life partnership before the law. It bothers you in the name of what you disagree with. Team up for you, not love. Love exists no matter what you don't like to register it. And stop, and the laws should correspond to reality, not to me or you don't like it. So, there is an experienced cholera across from the community of polite, civilized who, based on that experience correlation, regulates his laws under which to live. I don't know why it bothers you. I am deeply surprised by this position of yours since you are calling for Christian values, since you are calling for love, and then at one point you deny it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84256	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84257	Yeah, I don't know if we've gone too far. However, the concept of love as a universal category is not really related to human relationships at all. It's just one model of giving and between two people and parents and children and friends and the like. And when it comes to the experience correlation, and it's precisely if it's an experienced correlation, then it's just an experienced correlation as you've expressed yourself telling us that we don't need it and that it's something that we're forced to do under the pressure of a minority. So this model of making a surrogate marriage between two people of the same sex floor as a forced model is being imported from some Western European countries. And instead of importing quality tax laws, importing quality labour legislation, importing quality state administrations, we import this. I don't think we need that. And just if we are going to talk about this and about historical experience it shows that legalization or institutionalization of formalization in front of the mother marriage of two men or two women does not need us, and that is what the Croatian people clearly told us in the referendum. And you as a political group that has been acting in power for several months should have some respect for the so-called referendum will of the Croatian people, rather than denying it and watching you close your eyes in front of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84258	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Assembly and distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Comrade Granny, there's no reason I wouldn't give you a replica if I wrote you down. I didn't see, I'm sorry. I can't give it to you. I apologize, but I haven't seen you. I didn't write it down. Goran Maric gave up the replica that was 10. I'm sorry. Now nothing. Nancy Tyrelli on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. I'm sorry, really, there's no reason I wouldn't give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84259	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here in these few discussions we've heard a lot already and there's only one question being raised. Do we need this law or do we not need it? Does this law bring greater rights to people living in same - sex communities? They said yes. They support it, they say that because of this and that law, it will be better for them, and I believe that it is one of our first duties, or obligations, that we must respect. It's still counting some grains of left or right, bickering about some kind of worldview, ideological attitudes, and we can talk about it for days and days. As representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is a single obligation for us to respect the Constitution, respect Croatian laws, respect the declarations, conventions and all that we have signed as a state so far and what is extremely important to respect the final decision of the Constitutional Court as regards the constitutional referendum and the opinion of the Constitutional Court where constitutional law, namely that marriage is the constitutional right of the community of men and women, must in no way affect that anyone else has any less rights. And today we have begun to discuss whether this law is the right of all those who voted in the referendum. Now I could ask if it's an egg or a chicken before? Is this referendum called precisely because of the imposition of some ideological topics that draw us away from many important things at this time and that we lose days and months discussing what a marriage is and what a life partnership is of the same sex. Do these people have the same rights and do with the life partnership of a person of the same sex in any way destroy, discriminate, harm or other consequences to persons who are married? Personally, I believe that the responsibility of each individual is the greatest responsibility to live life by its principles. It is a responsibility and we must respect it and we must strive to do so. We've received all of us parliamentary representatives a letter from the Family Association that invites us not to buy into ideology and vote against this law. Who's running the ideology? Now I'm completely honest with you and I'm asking some questions. Who runs the larger ideologies, the Family Association, or the Government that puts the Life Partnership Act into practice for the same sex? I don't think we should argue about it, that we shouldn't disagree, but answer one simple question. So far, we have had a law that has allowed these people some rights, but it has not allowed them to bring these rights to an end and that they really have rights which, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, should be based on their own sexual commitment. So we had a law that didn't work in anything. I think it's our job to make laws every time getting better and better that will regulate exactly the relations between citizens, citizens and citizens with anyone else. That's our job, and that's what we should be trying to do. If this law contributes now to making these people and those people live better, live better in a simpler or better way, exercise some rights, then I consider it our only duty to support such a law. We can talk about how much he will be able to spend in our lives or not, but if we talk about his implementation in everyday life, then we should take all those other laws that are equally relevant to us and that we cannot implement in reality. They too have a lot of problems in implementation. Is that why we don't bring it? It's not. We can make amendments, we can. Let's set them up, try to make this law as simple as possible, as simple as possible, so that everyone can live it. I think that when we declare ourselves a democratic society, when we declare ourselves a society of equal opportunities and opportunities, when we declare ourselves a society that strives for every citizen of the Republic to have equal and same rights, and we argue in this way that we are discussing here in the Assembly, we are giving a completely different picture of what we are saying in relation to what we are saying. Turns out we think one thing, the other we do, the third we write. And because of that behavior and that kind of thinking and that kind of attitude, I think we're one big part where we are. We'd all like something but not until the end, we're all thinking something but not right now. We support these people, we want them all right, but we don't really have to pass the law that they live as well as we want them to. So these are the messages that confuse everyone who listens to them, and I'm also asking myself the question now that we're listening to these discussions, we all want the same thing, we want these people well. Let us answer the question in which way will we allow them to live well? By passing laws, by laying down some legal regulations under which something can work? If the law wasn't good to the end, it wasn't good. It takes a lot more work for him to be just the way he should be to make these people perfect. But I think perfection just doesn't exist and I think the passing of this law is one big step that we've shown in tolerance of diversity and tolerance. When we talk about whether the law defends the left or defends the right or is against him one or another, we give the wrong message again. I've been claiming all along that this law has to do with both the left and the right. Every single one of us, no matter where or which side he was on, has friends like that. And it's not good to argue like that and it's not good to share people like that. These are the people who live their lives, let's respect their right, let's try them as legislators to allow them to consume their rights in the best possible way and by what we have opportunities for what we have, and these are amendments, let's make sure that each of us, to propose to the amendment to the proposer the amendments of the law, in fact, as we believe it should be respected. Croatian Labourists as well as in their first reading will support this law for the simple reason why we are for fundamental human rights always this time. And that the problems after this law will be, that there will still be hatred, that there will still be discrimination with which we are all witnesses will be, but I don't think we should take the right to hate or discrimination on that basis and make it even greater than it is. Because anyone who feels hate has the right to say so, and so does the parliamentary representative, why shouldn't I? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84260	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84261	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleague Tyrelli. We all agree in Croatia that for this group of our citizens we need to modernise the laws for them to be at European level, at global level, for their benefit we have historically come to these circumstances. I don't think there's any dispute in all Croatian society. We talk, we cannot, we should each live in harmony with being a servant of our will, that is, to be master of our will and servant of our conscience. And not everyone can live by their own principles, there is a social framework. I don't agree with you, you or some things demagogue come forward or you don't understand at all. You can't talk about the spread of hate here, which is what you said if someone had any objections, they're spreading hate right now, they're homophobe right now. We're talking about serious things. I claim this law endangers the rights of other people, the human rights of a child. Minister Bauk, he's a general little Einstein, a mathematician, he started with the law, it'll be like marriage, he'll have rights but no adoption of children. He brought this law of adopting children to a small door, a side door. In particular, to be clear, in this law, I say, who thinks it isn't, let him seek the law, let him not dispute, that one girl from 5 to 10 years old may be found in a living room between two men each of the 100 kilos and with a black beard that is kissing, because they should be kissed, because parents should show tenderness in front of children. There's no human, God's, atheistic, religious principle that would say that it's or that would say that the principle is right, it can't be right, it's the twilight of the human mind, it's against human dignity, and it's a threat to that child's rights and I'm against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84262	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, a reply to the replica, actually a replica. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84263	Thank you very much. I wouldn't answer the line, I'd have a replica. Namely, I agree with absolutely respected colleagues of Tyrelli with what you said was not a good law, and I quote you, and that there is a lot to work on. That's what I said, because that's the law I need, but it needs to be improved. What I also agree with you, that you said that probably on the right and on the left there are people who have such orientation and that it's not good to divide by any criteria, it's not good to share here, and that's what's happening all morning. So it's manipulated by some claims that rarely nothing stands behind, with some impressions, with some prejudices against one side and allegedly for the other to score political points. And let's be honest, that's what this is all about. I've heard very little about this law, I've talked about concrete things. I will now use this replica to say another specific thing that is a lack of this law, for example, says that to implement this law does not require the provision of additional funding from the state budget, it simply is not true because there will be a financial impact of this law as well as any other law because it is very clear that every law that engages a state-run apparatus represents a new cost. Therefore, who will pay for the additional work of matrimonials, civil servants, judges, social workers, tax, police, judicial and other civil servants, especially officials and appointments of health institutions, prisons, etc. to make these rights come true. So, first I think the rights should be realised, but let's just say, let's say the truth, let's not hide and argue that something will cost nothing and then not predict it in the state budget, so we're surprised when the law won't be implemented. And that's what I used to say. Unfortunately, this is one declaration that serves to score points for the ruling, not... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak at the same time, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84264	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Tyrelli, when you spoke of this law, then you said you wouldn't like to talk about whether it was ideological or secular. This is a world-class and ideological thing, and this government is working on it, especially Minister Bauk. Just look at article 21 of this law, which says that "The mother will, by appropriate speech, meet the people who intend to enter into a life partnership with the provisions of this law, on their rights and duties, and the highlighted meaning of the conclusion of a life partnership." We were talking today about having a Law on Same-Sex Communities, it could be modified and amended. When you talk about a new law, I do not see why Minister Bauk would speak in Article 21(2) what the meanings of a life partnership are. I don't understand that. When we talk about tolerance and tolerance in Croatian society, I think at least the society that I have met has no more tolerance than the Croatian society, it definitely does not exist. And when you were talking about marriage, I'll just tell you, like Article 38. "When a life partnership is concluded, the persons who intend to enter into a life partnership can agree to keep their last name, to take the name of one of them as a common name, to take both last names together and decide which will belong to them, to take each of them along with their last name and last name of their life partner." I mean, what does this remind you of? This is a marriage except it's not called that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84266	Dear fellow MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84267	In your debate, you first mentioned your colleagues, and you referred to the referendum, the referendum question, and then I'll remind you that the initiators were saying we didn't go against anyone until there was a referendum. After that, they showed their true face. And I'm not surprised that you support this law, but many of you are colleagues, whether they support it or not, these people, these rights, they exist, these people, that group of people. You've also used a few times that one pronoun, you, that, that. So we're the ones who are the source and the main category and there's something that we're gonna tolerate. I know you didn't think so, but language starts to make discrimination conscious or unconscious. There are no us and they, there are only us, people who have their original rights, and our shame is that these rights have not been obtained before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84268	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House, Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84269	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tyrelli, I can fully support your debate and I'm glad you have one more liberal approach than you could read so far about some of the topics from your club, but you said we were being influenced by ideological topics that lead us away from important topics. It's a small part I can't agree with. Namely, human rights, fundamental human freedoms, it's the key to everyone, everyone, all rights. I know you may not be entirely thinking alike, but I'm saying, this sentence was meant to be... yes. I also spoke in the previous replica of manipulation. This was first of all, all the ways in the last 2.5 years are used to make different structures, and we know very well what the lowest levels, to express myself, to raise questions, of course you can't talk about concrete things because you don't know, you can't suggest anything suggestive, nothing affirmative, and it goes right to that level which is certainly below each belt. Not to mention the fundamental human rights and freedoms and a series of other activities that have been undertaken by Vukovar, preventing... institutions, presidents of the Republic, Prime Minister and a series of other activities. So, it's just one of a series of manipulations, but I believe that, very quickly, citizens have discovered the essence, and it could be read from the debate that even those who have potentiated it have participated in that, in these manipulations, also read that they have been manipulated. I'm totally glad you're gonna back this bill, but I'm saying, this part about fundamental rights, freedom, there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84270	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Batinić, I agree with you that human rights are fundamental rights and that is exactly what I have tried to say that it is a shame to manipulate it in the way it is manipulated and that these fundamental human rights are derived from the place where they are always and for each of us should be and that we then include them for daily political needs the way that suits us. So I don't think we should talk about these fundamental human rights the way we talk, and now we're fighting whether or not it's a fundamental human right, that a man lives with the one he wants to live with, and that now we're trying to solve this relationship with the law. So I think we're thinking the same thing, we probably didn't get along well enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84272	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Tirelli, you mentioned the letter that we received from the Family Association, of course we received many other letters, so the people who stand up for the adoption of this law, but I will stick to this letter that has a lot of illogicality, and I dare say false. First of all, it is claimed that the bill is incompatible with the rest of the legal gain of the Republic of Croatia and that it poses serious threats, freedom of mind and speech. And it was the Constitutional Court that we quoted incredibly many times today, regarding the referendum on marriage, that said something quite the opposite. So, finally, the Constitutional Court is speaking quite the opposite and it should certainly be taken into account. It is also incomprehensible for me to state here that this law denies constitutional categories to be recognized as entrepreneurial and market freedom, it is of course about florists, photographers, etc. So it's market freedom and the word itself that says that they can always decide whether to work and earn or not to work and earn, it's really their free will. Maticians as civil servants are something completely different and I find it difficult to accept as an argument concerning this law the fact that, behold, the association also states Vukovar. So, Vukovar, the hero city gets involved in this debate and one of the political arguments is who won, who lost in Vukovar. We could really discuss this a lot, but I don't have enough time. However, it is also said, and I don't think that this is really a subject related to the Life Partnership Act, and the arguments are also said to be that it is known that the Prime Minister and President of Parliament are the most unpopular, Mr. President, politicians in the state that I haven't seen in the surveys so far, the Prime Minister, yes, but also the President of the opposition party, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84274	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84275	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Kosor, well yes, I mentioned this letter because it hurt me personally when I read it, precisely because the author of this letter used this situation to curtail everything he thinks would be important at the moment, and all that it says inside is far from the truth and that's what makes me personally angry. On the other hand, this letter, I have a lot of memos and asked citizens who really need this law, and they effectively state the problems they face every day because this law is not yet there. And when I had to decide whether to define myself for this letter that I got "In the name of the family" or for these memos and letters that I got on behalf of these citizens who are in trouble, then I decided very easily that I would always advocate that we would solve the problem for the citizens and whether or not this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84276	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84277	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Tyrelli, you keep repeating it seems to me a few times the concept of fundamental human rights, so I guess you're putting this life partnership for people of the same sex as it says in the title but I guess marriage as a fundamental human right of a person of heterosexual supervision. But since it's already like that and your colleague said that less and less people believe in marriage, now he's not here, but exactly what he said, it means that less and less people believe in fundamental human rights by you. Now are fundamental human rights really marriage and life partnership or not? My colleague Djurovic also proved through the European verdicts that I am a marriage, the very marriage of heterosexual partners and then the life partners of the same sex are not fundamental human rights. But when you talk about discrimination, and you're talking about it, we don't want the majority to discriminate against the minority but not the minority to the majority. No one is allowed because the minority is discriminated against by the majority opinion or by the majority. We can't watch things like that. Before this law on the agenda in the Assembly there was a Family Law in which some provisions on children from the life partnership had already been incorporated, although this law was not on the agenda. So now retrograde is passed this law that will then have repercussions or consequences and will also affect the part in the Family Law. Little Mark's big trick, i.e. a few ministers, as Duje said, etc. There was a bit of a reverse process, a retro to the fact that we are now engulfing this law in the Family Law. This morning, I hear on the news that this law differs in terms of the marriage community and that there is no adoption of children, and that is not the case. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84278	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84279	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, if we're talking about fraud, I would like to underline what we said before, if we go to an analysis of who wanted to cheat, then you and I will clear our thinking together. We're talking about fundamental human rights, so for me, they're fundamental human rights to decide as an only child where I'm going to live, who I'm going to live with, how I'm going to live, how I think they're fundamental human rights. Now whether I'm going to live in a marriage or I'm going to live in an extramarital community or I'm just going to adopt a child which also allows me to do or some other sexual orientations, and then I'm going to live in a same-sex community, that's what rights are for me. And you mentioned before the number of marriages, in 2011, we had 20,211 marriages per thousand inhabitants and we also had divorces of 5,662 marriages, which means 280 divorced marriages per thousand. This information only tells us that no matter how much we edit and write laws again thanks to our rights and fundamental human rights we can enter into marriage, get out of marriage and live the way we think we are at that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84280	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Tireli, you said that a lot was said in the course of the debate, but somehow it dominates all the time what counterpart Grubisic was talking about, constantly human rights. And now some of them are taking on that they're bigger human rights fighters on the left, and we on the right are kind of backwards, we're different, so I personally experienced it in this High House to step up to my side when I was talking about human rights in rural areas about the rights of peasants in agriculture always thought of me as some back-up so what's he saying, so what's he talking about? No one mentions the question of what's with those 120, 130 thousand OPGs and those families countless in the countryside in rural areas that fail, which have no existence, and I don't think it's anything in the back, that protects both the institution of marriage, shares one value, I don't hold anything back and bad. I also plead to compete with those who can make decisions to compete in the creation of quality of life, economic growth and other issues that can contribute to the preservation of marriage and life in the best sense of that word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84282	Thank you, too. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84283	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I respect your debate, I respect your debate because you spoke impartially, unburdenedly, you spoke of reality and did not collect political points. You've been saying what you're thinking, and you've mentioned in reality one part of what I wanted to do to you because of your debate. You see today since the morning of the academic Reiner's debate in which she was not even homophobic, she was not against it, but pointed out the problems of this law on this left, unfortunately of most of the one representative wanted to change perception, she wanted us to be shown here as some homophobes, like some people who hate people. Never, and trust the young ladies and gentlemen who sit upstairs, when you get out of here most of some MPs and MPs will get out of this assembly, will no longer use time to fight for your rights, they won't, because one part of them never lived the beliefs they're talking about, one part, but lived another belief. And that's what offends us in this club. That's what insults us. That it was allowed this morning to act, in this way, out of pure peace, in a debate conducted by an academic in which it offends no one, nor your rights, nor our rights, but that one such animosity would be shown. In fact, it was a shock therapy for distinguished colleagues who did so. They just wanted to change perception. And don't let yourself be fooled, you don't let yourself fool anyone who doesn't live their lives by respecting others and believing what they're saying, but only by saying what they want journalists to hear today and tomorrow for some political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84284	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84285	Thank you very much. Well, I'll look back on that part of your debate where you talked about who introduces ideology into this House, meaning left or right, and something about human rights. So my opinion, it may also be modest, has been that this House of Ideology has been introduced for 2.5 years by the ruling majority, the SDP, because through numerous attempts, legislative proposals, decisions have been made. I will remind you of the abolition of patronage over the marking of Bleiburg, the famous lex Perkovic, health education, intense conflicts with the Church, the humiliation we now hear the results of the referendum, that hysteria ahead of the referendum, the Cyrillic and everything else. Well, the opposition didn't impose those issues. The government has imposed them and they are being led here and there will still be a debate. And it's very clear to everyone, and you don't need to mention left or right there. Left. Now that I hear this story of human rights. Look, the alliance, the SDP, the Social Democratic Party was in its first form the Union of Communists of Croatia, the Party of Democratic Change, so they are followers of that time. And I'm proud today, believe me, when a colleague here talks like that with a lot of passion about love, quotes even one letter from that time and was active... A participant of both that time and that the left hand side is teaching us human rights, you understand, because they had a special definition of human rights until the '90s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to say how homosexuality was treated and where she was trying to sort out in some way, what was going on with these people. That's why we're proud that the left-hand side of us means she's experienced a kind of catharsis in that part. And of course who's bigger now, the Democrats and the respecter of human rights on the other side, means. It bothers me when they call me a buttock, a savage, because I'm exclusive and I don't respect anything and I've never treated anyone... no offense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much.]] I'm not ready for power to do anything. Some of them are. And be what they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84286	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We have a SDSS club and a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84287	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, wherever you are, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club supported this Act, the bill's proposal in the first reading and will support it in the second reading. And we want to say something about another debate about this law. I grew up in Dalmatia and I graduated from elementary school there and one of my biocomponents in memory was a conflict over who was allowed to marry. Whether Orthodox women are allowed to marry Catholic women and whether Catholic women are allowed to marry Orthodox women and vice versa. It was dominant that ethnic groups, or religious groups, were then dominant religious, as they are today in many ways only within themselves. And interfaith marriages because of the church's influence could not be tolerated. And the traditional communities spoken of by our esteemed colleague from the north-east part of Croatia Milinkovic were greatly shaken by these processes. Not urban but traditional, rural ones. And whether a young Orthodox went to Zadar and found a beautiful young Catholic woman and wanted to marry her, he had a natural problem and vice versa. If a young Catholic came to Benkovac and found a pretty Orthodox woman and wanted to marry her, he had a problem. But it's from the 1960s until further notice very quickly prevailed, in 10 years it became normal for most families and most of the neighborhoods to marry and marry according to their choices, their feelings and their love because it took over the world government as one of the main modernization concepts of that time. That authority our colleague speaking of on the left says is not authorized to speak of human rights. But she did spend that modernization with the weaknesses of her democracy that we know no matter which side they belonged to. It was similar in Germany and my friends who lived in different parts of Germany talk about the same thing when they were Protestants and Catholics. Same thing. As many kids in the classrooms could hang out but limited. They could have been in class, but they weren't at the playground together, let alone coming to each other's house. And it was controlled by religious communities, religious hierarchy and religious science. That's what we've come up with as a society. During the 1990s because of the war, because of the horrors we have experienced and because of the policies that have become dominant, some of them have returned to the former Yugoslavia and to us in Croatia. In the meantime, the world has gone much further, the world has gone towards tolerance and respect for differences, and in this matter that we are talking about today is people, so same-sex orientation, either male, or female, and it has become a fact. Now it's just a matter of how we handle these facts. We can't stop them because we couldn't stop them before, it was just a matter of how visible it was, it was just a question of how much freedom there was and of course how many hypocrisis. The less freedom, the more hypocrisis. Today we have made progress in this regard thanks to liberal policy, thanks to the neoliberal policy of respecting differences and whatever I have serious objections to a neoliberal political idea, but in this matter they have taken a step forward and we need to respect it and that is a matter of human rights and improvements in human rights and freedom. And so it stands in the European Convention in Article 12 when a marriage is defined. Marriage is a human right. The fact that we have a matter of sacrament is a matter of our heritage and our traditions and should be respected. It should therefore not be rude, but it should not be used as a reason to limit what is already worldly practice. And I would like so much to say that there is no reason to spread fears as spread from certain people who speak in this House when it comes to regulation of the same-sex partnership. The very fact that we haven't settled it with the same law, the Family Law, is already a kind of segregation, but it's kind of a easing in front of a dominant type of public opinion or opinion or culture, whatever you want. The very fact that we are still sensitive to the adoption of children and that we gave up getting it into the law is also a respect for the tradition we have, but also the need to see how things will develop when it comes to it. It carries certain questions with it, we agree, but no questions to scare people with beards, bare, big men, as our colleague says... And what do all the children see in our marriage mates? What did you see so you didn't see today in your experience? I'm not talking like you, I think, any of us, when it comes to trauma. Let's not exculpate from it, each of us carries some kind of trauma, bigger or less. For this reason, marriage should not be sacralized as a place where it is not, for many things it is not holiness. We teach children hate and intolerance, teach children prejudice. It's a much bigger problem than this issue of tolerance. It's a much bigger problem for us as a society than the question of tolerance of this species. Stealing, killing, aren't those the values that have become normal with us in these 20 and a few years? Didn't families become powerless to control it? Didn't society become powerless to control it? Yes, it is. And now we're making a problem out of this, and from how many percent of the population, and we have an increase in mortality compared to the number of borns. We have a constant drop in the live births, we have a constant increase in divorce. Well, we can't keep it with this, the spread of phobia. In one thing, I could agree with those who believe that this cannot be the only topic of modern societies and modern democracies. We are for the nation's difference, the difference in religion, the difference in nation, language, sex, sexual orientation, but it's time to start thinking, and that's what I think there should be a message for our colleagues, as my colleague Babic says on the left. It's time to start thinking about a nation equal. Yesterday we were discussing the Labour Act and reducing the rights of people. Today we are talking about the Law on the same-sex partnership, talking about increasing human rights. What is the kind of democracy in which a whole set of rights that depends on the possibility of democracy being functional, that life is in line with our Constitution, ignore and reduce, and we will think that we are enough democracies if we are to advocate the new liberal concepts of the right arising from diversity. No, I don't. The diversity and recognition of diversity that will not include equality of people on a social basis, on an economic basis, cannot be a good democracy on a regional basis and cannot be enough democracy. There will always be attitudes like this that will speak with those who have their cooperatives and do not function, which is with those who live in villages and who cannot have an adequate life for it. The legislator and the government must think about it and not neglect them, because otherwise we will create assumptions for prejudice. Unequal society cannot be a society that will tolerate differences as much as we can legally regulate it. And that's why we have to commit to it. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club will support this bill, because we believe that a nation of different people is good for the nation. Life in tolerance is good. Life without hypocrisis is good. No one should impose anything on anyone, but no one should take anything away from anyone in that regard. However, this will not be enough for Croatian society unless we focus on work issues, unless we focus on development issues. And it must be our message from here too, and it must be our message also to those who offer us their democracy, and also to colleagues who come from another spectrum, who frighten us with the socialist past. You don't have to scare us by that. It's the past. A much bigger past than we can imagine. What is our problem today is the question of our future and our present, and where we are and where we are going, not what we were. And that's why this opportunity should be used for that kind of question, to make this our own decision. And I think that this compromise that was made with the Law on the same-sex partnership for the current state of communication opportunities in Croatian society, communication of different worlds and different values is good and that good solutions are in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84288	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we'll stop the debate, and the replica remains for 15.00 hours five. ... No, you have to go back, Mr. Dujomire Marasovic, and give the replica because you reported it. [[You can't hear it.]] At 3:00, you're the first on the line. Bon appetit! Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84289	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the replicas to expose my fellow buds. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] He's gone. Zeljko Reiner, replica, vice president. Are you going to replicate when there are no fellow buds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84290	Maybe say something that makes sense. Well, it's a shame that the colleagues are gone, of course, and it's getting lost then and the point, I have to say that it's sad that now that we're out of cameras, here, as far as we're concerned, not 20% of the Parliament's composition, and the same thing was yesterday when we discussed the same law that's probably even more important than this law, the Labour Act, it's been like that again somewhere, I've estimated, maybe a fifth of the composition. But what offered me when my colleague said and advocated tolerance, to respect human integrity for human rights, etc., and many others were those beautiful words that, of course, we all agree with, I must say that we can't take from concepts and from certain things only the part that suits us and when it suits us at a certain point, and at another point we don't take it. Well, for example, when the government says it is, and the prime minister said it is a world-wide law, then it is not convenient that, in accordance with the world's horizon, when it is necessary to give the right to a conscience, then suddenly it can't be applied anymore. So, about, I say again, these all lofty words. They also refer to the call for conscience, namely, the right to appeal to conscience is covered by Article 9. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and in particular I would draw attention to all of us to one verdict, in fact, to the human rights court, which since 2011, when it found that the refusal of the service motivated by serious and insurmountable discrepancies between the obligations of the service and the personal conscience or the deep religious and other beliefs acquired represent evidence of the application of indifference... and the importance of attracting the guarantees of Article 9 of this Convention. Therefore, the fulfillment of the public service obligation can be assessed from the point of view of the guarantee of freedom of conscience if it is in conflict with deep and originally acquired religious beliefs. And it seems very important to me that we realize that if we accept the appeal of conscience that in this way we are actually in the best way fulfilling the letter of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, and in this way we will actually actively stand on the defender of protection against discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84291	Time. Thank you. Next replica, Shime Luchin. Are you going to replicate your colleague Lucin? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84292	Actually, it's not our problem that we raised our hand on the replica that Mr. Pupovac doesn't have, it's his problem. Maybe he'll come and answer us later. In fact, I disagree with him in one of his findings, which is when he mentioned compromises, and among other things the adoption of children. I don't really think it's a good compromise, although most colleagues on my left, or on the right, it actually turns out from their exposure that it's actually a key problem, and it's not adoption of children in that broadest form, but it's actually about the partner care they put into the context of adoption. Because I would disagree that children in same sex communities are more exposed to harassment and shock than it is, let me call it, in some normal relationship, or marriage. I think it's more of a shock for a child to have an alcoholic parent who's harassing his mother or just a child than if it's one kiss of the same sex and it's going to cause more trauma to abuse, beating, abuse than one kiss. I think it would be good for us to talk here if we're already in favour of the children's interest, how many children are protected in marriages, how our children are protected in schools, in churches, in homes, etc. So it seems to me that we might be concerned about some, so I should call them old institutions when it comes to the position of children, so that compromise on children, or adoption, I don't think it's a good compromise.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84293	Thank you. Come in, buddy Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84294	You would disagree with me if it were a bigger problem, I would disagree with you that this is a bigger problem than it is a much bigger problem for children to experience when it comes to traditional sexual education whether it's about daughters or whether it's about sons, whether it's a relationship between husbands and husbands, or marriage mates. And that's the thing to talk about, and it's also worth talking about when it comes to such a law because it's a much greater burden for a formative period of young people and for their later behavior when it comes to socialization than what we're talking about today, what we don't even have fuller and real knowledge of, and we have more prejudice, stereotypes and fears based on prejudice and stereotypes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84295	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84296	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Pupovac, I sympathised one Belgrade commentator Radivoj Markovic when he was passing the game he used the word missed the whole football and with that expression I often agree with today. You missed the whole football today. Nothing you've said is true and what you've said other things I'm going to challenge you in another way. Churches you said interreligious marriages were disabled because of a church ban, you didn't say that didn't matter. It's not true, it's not true, the Church of Orthodox and the Church of Catholics have automatically acknowledged weddings and marriages. The Church of Catholics, I don't know how it was with Orthodoxs she admitted every marriage, one girl could marry an atheist, with a Muslim he should have come and just told that at the altar that he recognized her integrity that she lived in her Catholic church, the marriage was valid. So the churches didn't ban those marriages. And the second thing is that the people thought in their heads and the other thing is that I'm thinking in my head today. A lot of these marriages have fallen apart, but what you say cannot compare this marriage between homosexuals and now a Serb and a Croat, for example. A married Serb and a Croat may rain a little bit, a shirt melts, drys in two hours, all right, and if his daughter marries another colleague it's a tragedy. But I ask you, Mr. Pupovac, you answer me in response to the replica. You as a Serb, as a Serbian party advocated in Vukovar for segregation, not banning marriages. You've employed segregation of children into separate schools. It's worse than South Africa... Or in the United States before the end of slavery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm threatening to think that in Croatia it exists today. When people grow up, let them do what they want. And you asked for segregation of children. And if we understand each other, I have another, two, three thought, but who would tell you all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84297	But it's time, it's time for my colleague Marasovic. Thank you, colleague Pupovac's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84298	Well, I'll actually agree with the first part of what my colleague Marasovic said. It is true, counterpart Marasovic, that there are many more gays among Serbs and Croats than there are among homosexuals on various grounds, based on various grounds. And some of them commit violence against us without having any authority. Now, as far as the second question is concerned, so segregation issues. Both me and my colleagues in the Assembly sitting here and those who work as council members in municipal, city and county councils are against segregation, such as the largest part of the political, cultural tradition of Serbs in Croatia. And about who creates a segregation language policy, who creates a segregation culture policy, who creates an educational policy where there is no room for others, you would have to turn around, and maybe it would be enough just to look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84299	Thank you. And last replica Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the debate was interrupted after Mr. Pupovac's delivery, the debate of Mr. Pupovac has lost the thread by an hour and a half, so it is difficult to recall what is really a replica and No, I'm not giving up. [[Intruder: Will you give up on the replica then?]] But what I was about to say is that the fundamental human right is, therefore, what Mr. Pupovac so spoke of, therefore, a fundamental human right is the right to work. [[And you won't, okay.]] I think he even said that it is a fundamental human right to work and that this human right and failure of that human right equally affects all groups or components of Croatian society. So also those who are according to the sexual definition whether they are. However, about how we can overcome it in order to make it a fundamental human right, a right to work, it seems to me that much less cause attention, and also debate, and work in government and everywhere than here today, let me say this a little bit, to say this kind of bile debate about this law. It would be much more convenient, much better if we could pay more attention to this fundamental human right, the right to work. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84301	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84302	I agree with you that we should, but I'm also glad that you began to understand that the nation's work is more important than the nation's identity and that with the nation's identity, we became enslaved and unfree and even more indivisible. And that is why it seems to me that it is finally time to start really talking about the nation of work, about Croatia as a nation of work and people who can work and that we can leave the debates as an identity thing that is more or less for our opportunities, something that we can do not as a central debate but as a debate that we are obliged to do in view of the reached standards of democratic freedoms and democratic rights in today's world.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84303	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club Igor Coleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84304	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Honored ministers with associates. The HNS will of course, as it did in the first reading and as when these topics on the agenda always did, support this law, however should be said from our perspective it is not ideal. For us in the HNS, the equality that we seek is that equality which is guaranteed by one law, one Family Law under which everyone applies and those regulated by this law also enjoy equal rights, equal opportunities and equal obligations. But what is certainly undeniable is that this law is a big step and I, in that sense, have the need and to congratulate and thank Minister Bauku and his associates and associates because this is really about a big step forward and civilizational and political and social. What's crucial here to emphasize in our opinion is that this law is not only useful for same-sex couples. And we agree, I think that in one replica, my colleague Antičević-Marinović said it, but it's not at all about some out there, some of the others, some groups that are out there somewhere far away from us, so we now give and do not give rights, give or give freedom. He is useful to all of us because only in a society that is able to accept differences can we all be who we want to be, or who we are. That is why this law is beneficial for all of us, which is why this law is also useful for a colleague of Milinkovic who feels discriminated against on the basis of the topics he is talking about, but only in society and in a country where neither one of us is discriminated against on any basis, nor can counterpart Milinkovic feel discriminated against. And that's the point of this law, that's the point of this law, that's the point of what we in HNS are all about, about personal freedom of people, about being equal before the law and that the only limit can be to harm each other and his freedom. This law is good for our children. I suppose that all of us, I know that for my children, for my children, and I hope children want to live in a society surrounded by acceptance and understanding, not by rejection and misunderstanding based on any individual characteristics, whether it is a matter of choice or a question of a day that cannot be affected. In addition to the fact that this law opens up new spaces in the political and social development of Croatia, it is also very practical and it is a second fundamental advantage. A lot of things most people in this country take for granted and don't think for more than 1 second about them, it also allows those of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who have been denied so far for reasons that I, with the best of will to this day, haven't actually been able to figure out. Whether we're afraid, if we don't know, we don't understand, we have prejudice or all of that a little bit, I haven't really figured it out until today, but it doesn't matter, we're doing this one step further. These things I am talking about are very specific, urgent decision on the partner's health, organ donations, intensive care visits, inheritance and joint assets, family pension, health insurance through a life partner, commitment to maintaining partners after the breakup, paid leave due to the care of partners, tax relief due to the maintenance of the unemployed partner, joint credit, joint rent of the apartment, and particularly important, protection from discrimination, and it all starts and ends. We live in a time of complex identities. None of us are defined anymore with several basic categories, nation, religion, sex, that time has long ended. All of us because of the way we live, because of the civilization we live in, because of the communication we live in daily, we all carry hundreds of elements that determine our identity, except for these basic and basic elements. And none of us can expect to respect the respect and acceptance of other people and other identities if he is unable to respect and accept other people's identities, other elements of what makes us, each of us a complex personality with complex identities in which we live today. So this law is a major step in civil and social terms, but it also provides fundamental economic, social, pension, health, labour and other rights relating to family communities. And all the institutions that we see ourselves in, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Union, the UN, all those in their recommendations, in their judgments, give direction and direction to exactly the one in which we thank God and Croatia at the moment are moving. But frankly, honestly and without all the resolutions and recommendations and judgments and documents and conclusions of everything we call for, there is only one fundamental reason why this law should be passed. It's us, all of us and our country, to live civilized, human, in peace and understanding with the people around us. Another important thing is that this law finally recognises the fact that couples with children are already living in the Republic of Croatia. They already live here among us. And all those constantly calling for children’s rights, children’s welfare, should be aware that children living in same - sex couples still have no rights stemming from the facts of family life. It's the same thing this law changes. And this law changes a lot, a lot of things change. There are some things that don't change. If I may, I remember one of my personal experiences in '97. When I was 18, I was a journalist at a local television station. And when they sent me to record my first donation, so when I got here, they sent me to record one big donation that one company gave to one home for unsettled children. We spent hours there, too. By the time we got there, until that truck came in, and it was unloading, so they took a picture with it, we followed it all, filmed it there for a few hours. And then when we were leaving, this kid grabbed my leg and wanted to come home with me after those few hours after I was hanging out there. And it's an experience that shocked me, but it's important and defined me both as a man and as a politician in one part, in one part of my identity complex. It's a moment where I realized that a child really needed a family and that no matter how many people in those homes tried to make sure that they couldn't hug every child in the evening and every child in the evening kissed and the same in the morning. But I also realized that the family is a man and a woman, but that the family is also one woman or one man or two women or two men. And that what any of these families can provide to a child and should be provided to a child does not depend on any way on the combination of numbers or sexes in that family. It's something that's still waiting for us after this law. We've also invested some amendments here. I hope that colleagues and colleagues will support the amendments that both counterpart Lucin and colleague Sobol and colleague Vuksic signed there, I signed. But in any case, and without that, with hope and the desire that day will come that we will also be equaled in terms of adoption, and that day will come. But without it, we support this law, and we believe that this law is an extraordinary step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84305	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my esteemed colleague Coleman came forward primarily because of your claim that the law is good for our children in particular. With a lot of nice words that you have said in general like this, I have to say that if we look at article 40, then his literal interpretation might conclude that the parent is free to his life partner or the remaining parent's life partner actually confide in the achievement of parental care for the child in part or in full time until the child's age. Therefore, there is no obligation to renew such a statement for half a year, for a year etc. So, vulgarizing things maybe when you want to pick up a mail shipment. This is not worth more than a year, and now a simple statement about the transfer of parental rights to a person who is not a child’s parent can be worth up to his age. This is something that is certainly contrary to the arrangement of caring for children under the Family Law. And the only thing that makes sense is that it defines time and that it also defines the necessity to approve the competent Social Care Centre, because that would be consistent with what we were saying in the Family Law that the welfare of children is in the first place, and we all have to think about it. At least I hope we're really thinking about the welfare of the children, not all the other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84307	Thank you, too. Answer me, colleague Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84308	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Reiner. So what I was saying when I said the sentence that this law is good and for our children it was that I hope and I suppose there are more people in this assembly who hope that our children will live in society and in a country that is more willing to accept all possible differences with which we can be born or that we can develop through the years of life and that, in that sense, this law is certainly a step forward. The legislation must always be at some point a lamp at the beginning of the column, not just following a column at the beginning. And as for this second part, therefore, the benefits in specific situations are crucial and the only benefit for every child in my opinion is to live if it is possible in the environment of love and family, but as I have said what love and family means. So for me too, the community of two men and two women who love each other and who are also family no less than any other family that some of you consider to be better, more valuable and have the right to the advantage of passing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84309	Thank you. Željko Jovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you have just spoken about what I wanted to do to you and further replicate on how much this law does, except that it is in line with modern European fluids, can affect both the quality of life in Croatia and the future of our children, who hopefully will not be burdened to this extent by prejudice that restricts the freedoms of others and different ones, who think differently. What can we read from the discussion of the conservative part of this assembly, led by doctors, which is particularly surprising to me, the academics Reiner or Professor. Marasovic, who simply does not accept that all people are not the same, and that the freedom of one individual extends until it threatens the freedom of another. And that's why I'm taking this opportunity to further understand by listening to prof. Marasovica, an academician of Reinera who should be the cream of a free civil society to the extent that Croatian students need civic education to adopt one of the EU's basic competences, which is civic competence. Civil competence cannot develop unless there are knowledge that is adopted with understanding, if knowledge and understanding do not develop skills. Only then do we come to the values and attitudes, or to the civilian competent population of the Republic of Croatia and thus to the EU. This law will make a lot of progress, but some people's prejudices won't change. That is why we need civic education in order for civil society in Croatia to be equal to modern EU civil fluids.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84311	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84312	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Jovanovic, I sign from the first to the last words of what you said, especially I would like to emphasise not that not all people are the same but no one is the same anymore. We're defined in various ways, various elements, and none of us are actually the same anymore. And it threatens us that if we don't start, if we don't learn to live with the fact that none of us are equal to the one next to ourselves anymore, we end up hating each other because there's always some difference that makes us hate and discriminate. As for civic education, you know best that the two of us didn't always get along 100%, but I always took off my hat and honored the intelligence, conviction and firmness that you advocated the introduction of civic education to school. I think it's still I think it was the right approach and the right idea. I'm sorry that the announcements that come after you in some way reduce it. And I hope that, however, is due to the awkwardness of communication and in the first days of policy-making that is not an easy job, not to announce the change of trend that you have drawn in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84313	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84314	Honored Mr. Vice President, colleague Coleman Paris, the free spirit city, the French Civil Revolution votes that marriage is allowed for homosexuals and then millions are rolling in Paris' streets against it. And now they're all as stupid, homophobic, retrograde as we are here on this side. What are you talking about? I have my own attitude about it, and neither do I feel less worthy, and whoever tells me that I consider it primitive, who tells me that's why I'm a homophobe. He's an illiterate, illiterate, primitive individual. Was he a parliamentary representative, was a journalist, was a homosexual of anything. That's what I think. I have my own attitude, who respects it doesn't have to respect it, but I don't consider myself any less worthy of it. So, when it comes to children, I don't think it's a normal environment, I'm not going to say he's sick, but my opinion is that he's also sick, where the child would be in that environment where I said in the previous discussion. I don't think that's normal. I would never want to do that to my child. What do you think of your child I leave it to you. But, fellow Coleman, what I have reported for the replica, you are alluding or trying to suggest that because there are some children in Croatia in homosexual marriages that should be legalized. It's an extorted policy. I ask you if there are drugs in Croatia? There are. Are there any drug addicts? There are. Are there dealers? There are. And those dealers on the big ones, they exist. Then let's legalize drugs and dealers, let's not punish anyone. And then what are we going to fight the drug dealer? You can't run politics that way. We here must consider what is good in accordance with our morals, with our conscience, with general commitment to the laws of eternity. And we can't for eternity because we're not gods but we can for the next 100 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84315	Thank you. That's my colleague Coleman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84316	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Marasovic may be wrong but I don't remember ever being in this assembly to anyone either individually or especially as a group of people said they were stupid, homophobic and retrograde. Not because I might not have thought it from time to time, but because it's not the level of communication in this assembly. The difference between those who are against and those who are in favor is that this law in no way touches those who are against. It's something we keep saying. This law doesn't prescribe anything in any way and doesn't order anything. Each one of us is also free to organise our marriage, our marriage and the extramarital or any other community in the way he wants and how his will is in accordance with his own affinities, traditions, belongings, and everything that affects it. But the ban, or ban, does not bring, or inequality, in the ability to exercise rights, of course, imposes something on someone. It imposes on a person the inability to realize his life’s aspirations and life’s relationships in the way he wants to. That's the difference between you and me. The other difference between you and me, or between you and me, is that it would never occur to me that any child in any marriage is compared to drug dealers and drug dealers. And you're lucky I don't tell people in this assembly that they're stupid, homophobic and retrograde.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84317	Thank you. Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You say Mr. Coleman, that this bill is good for our children and that I can't imagine that some will not accept it. As a legalist, you must respect both choice and different opinion. You say I'm not defined by the nation, by faith, by sex, I am. And I don't see what's wrong with that. In order for us to be a society, the state would have been if we hadn't been defined by that. When you talk about the community itself, you say that this is a community like any other, it's not a community like any other. A community of two different sexes can provide biological reproduction while this one, you have to admit, can't. When you talk about the community as something good, organized, reproductive. As for the sex itself that you were talking about, I'll warn you that we've changed here, and we've had amendments and additions to the Queen's Law in which sex is now no longer a biological givenness but a matter of personal declaration. No matter what scientific and medically reliable gender information, so here's the next thing you know, given the changes in the law, I don't know how he would have addressed you because you didn't speak up like Mrs. Coleman or Mr. Coleman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84319	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84320	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Just one short thing I've already told my colleague Marasovic, but I'll do it again. So this law does not in any way restrict anyone's right to choose. We all chose, and we all make our choices every day, and you chose, and I chose, and in that part you and I just chose a very similar thing. But that doesn't mean that everyone else who may not want to choose this similar thing or I can't choose that similar thing that needs to be defended and disabled. So, this law, I repeat 16 times since we started with these discussions since the first reading, this law does not impose anything on anyone, no one prevents you from having any marriage you want, it only allows one part of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who so far were not available to achieve some, not all rights that involve what we call marriage, and I repeat my and my party's hope that this will someday be brought into complete equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84321	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, a new wave and independent representatives Martincevic, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84322	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have over 12 years of legal regulation of same-sex communities, and in 2003, when the Law on Same-Sex Communities was first adopted then the debate was much stronger, ideologically stronger, and somehow here, after so many years, apparently the blade was numb. This proposal for a new law definitely increases the scope of law and enables same-sex partners to establish a registered life union and to practically enjoy similar rights as marriage partners. The difference in the scope of the rights that exist between same sex and heterosexual communities primarily refers to the position of children. The title doesn't matter, it's about content and it's about the position of children. So, in force is this Law on the same-sex communities that we are likely to change in view of the number of people, it prescribes a ban on discrimination, the right to acquire common assets and the right to mutual support for same-sex partners. The rights and privileges prescribed by other laws shall not apply to the same-sex community but only to the marriage and most of the extramarital community. The proposal for this law extends the scope of the rights that the legislator considers necessary for the everyday life of the same-sex partners. Thus, new institutes such as life partnership, informal life partnership, parental care of a life partner and partner care are introduced into the Croatian legal system. According to this proposal, life partnership is a community of family life of two persons of the same sex who have concluded a life partnership before the competent authority in the procedure prescribed by this law, that is, Article 2 and the informal life partnership of an institute similar to what we have in the Family Act on the Extramarital Community and includes the assumption that persons of the same sex have not concluded a life partnership and that their life union lasts for at least 3 years and meets the assumptions of a valid, valid life partnership. This morning the question was raised here I think from the Academy of Reiner whether such a community can be treated if they don't live at the same addresses, can be said the Supreme Court's decision. Therefore, this bill further provides for assumptions and procedures for the conclusion and termination of the life partnership, the keeping of a single central electronic database on all life partnerships, i.e. the register, and the legal effects of the life partnership. Now, these legal effects of the life partnership are identical with the legal effects of marriage, with some exceptions primarily related to the legal position of children. The bill does not foresee the possibility of adopting children as said by the life partners minister, however, regulates two options. The first option, the first model of childcare, and he follows the provisions on parental care, the Family Law, would thus practically put a life partner who did not put a parent in a comparable position, a position that a stepdad or stepmom have in the marriage community. The Court decides on parental care by presupposing guardians to the prescribed Family Law. Thus, a life partner may ask the court to provide parental care for a child together or instead of a parent. Recognising the right to parental care by the court, the life partner acquires the practical right of decision-making, i.e. co-decision on all issues related to care, education, health and child restraint. In the event of the end of the life partnership, the situation if a young child lived in the family community of life partners, then an ex-partner who is not a parent of a child can apply to the court for rights, or personal relations with a child, which the court decides again in an out-of-party procedure. And this second model is partner care of children, and it is a form of care for a minor child who can only provide a life partner after the death of a life partner, a parent who is a parent of a child, but extremely for the life of a life partner if another parent is not known. Now, this provision practically regulates relationships in life communities where one of them is practically conceived and artificial insemination. In the event of the death of a minor parent's life partner who lived in the family life of a family partner at the time of his death, the surviving life partner may propose to be appointed as a partner to a minor child, provided that the other parent is not alive or has been declared dead. Now we come to a court that will assign custody to a child's life partner if it's in the best interests of the child. The previous life partner must meet the requirements for custodians in accordance with family law. In the proceedings, the Court is obliged to seek the expert opinion of the Centre for Social Welfare based on the Court’s decision to provide partner care for a minor child, the parent’s partner shall obtain parental care and any rights and obligations arising from this as long as the partner care note is entered in the mother of the child. Finally, the provision of care between the parent’s partner on the one hand and the child and its offspring on the other is based on permanent rights and duties that exist legally between parents and their offspring. There is practically no difference between adoptions under the Family Law, between heterosexual couples and this adoption that proposes this law. So, we recently told the Family Law that the extramarital communities in terms of property and personal relations of rights and obligations place the same position... on marriage communities which lead to a new situation where the extramarital partners will be able to adopt children in the future. In practice, this means that the adoption provisions will apply to same-sex couples because the status of the Life Partnership Act will apply to persons of the same sex in these cases. Of course it's not as said as I'm saying now, it's nowhere... said, but I'd almost say it implies it. So this bill mentions legal regulations relating to family relations. It's just family law. Introductory provisions of the Family Law say in Article 1 concerning family law, so that it regulates marriage, the extramarital community of women and men, relations between parents and children, measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child, adoption, custody, maintenance, etc. And the terms used, he says, in Article 2 of this law have a gender meaning that is used neutrally and relate equally to both male and female. So, when one subject of adoption comes before a judge, the Law of Same-Sex Communities practically, that is, this new bill of law if adopted, the judge looks at the legal regulations relating to family relations, that is, the Family Law, it can simply, it does not have to call for any conscience because there is no right to call on it, can simply refuse such a single request because practically Family Law refers to a community of men and women. So either ministers need to amend the Family Law or put in this law all those provisions that are meant to be regulated or which are meant to apply to this form of adoption which is indeed and is not and is not the right full adoption of children. Now we can ideologically discuss as much as we want, but the practice of courts goes on, especially those of international courts, including the human rights court whose decisions are mandatory for the Republic of Croatia. The final example of Austria shows that the state had to adopt the right to adopt same-sex couples following the Court of Human Rights ruling. So, after equalising the legal regulation of extramaritals with marriage communities, in this regard, the only reason for the different regulation of same-sex communities remains that negative prejudice towards persons of other sexual orientation, which is legally unacceptable as a level of distinction. And this is exactly the content of the decision in the European Court of Human Rights ruling in cases against Austria, against the United Kingdom, France, so these were cases before those countries evened out marriage to same-sex communities. These are countries that are otherwise equal to the whole marriage and same - sex community in Europe. So some same-sex couples can ask for adoption even after it's e.g. Refusal at some judicial distances, he finally addresses the Constitutional Court seeking the protection of human rights of family life on the basis of equality, calling for standards laid down by the European Convention and if the Constitutional Court does not adopt such a couple can go to the European Court of Human Rights and here we come to the situation of judgments that already exist and their application that will have to be applied at the end and which are binding on Croatia. So what was the case in Austria is likely to happen to us after the adoption of these provisions of this law, regardless of our ideological debates. What I simply want here to mention to the minister that to the end explain this form, these two adoption models, to regulate them in this law, not to refer to a family law that practically does not apply to these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84323	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, you said exactly that by following this law that there was no difference in the adoption of children according to the Family Law and that is one of the problems that was repeatedly highlighted despite the fact that the minister and those who defended the law claimed that this was not the case. That is, and it should in some ways be arranged according to what you said. However, I also came forward because you said in the first sentence that one of the objectives of the law is how it is and how discrimination is mentioned. Well, it's not exactly that special when it comes to what we've been warned more about, which is an appeal to conscience and the possibility of a conscience. Namely, our existing Law on Discrimination of Discrimination clearly states "it is not considered discrimination to be a more unfavourable position in the pursuit of professional activities or the establishment of a working relationship, membership and action that is in line with the science and sending of the church and the religious community to register religious communities in the Republic of Croatia, and other public or private organisations whose system of values is based on faith or belief, which act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, if they so require... doctrines and beliefs in the event that due to the nature of those activities or circumstances in which a person or person is engaged constitute a true, legal and justifiable condition for carrying out a job, taking into account the system of value of that organisation". Therefore, even now in force, our law on the prevention of discrimination guarantees that the refusal to participate individuals in procedures that oppose his conscience or his conscience and belief does not consider discrimination, however unfortunately, the legislator discriminates against these people by refusing to introduce our proposal to appeal to conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84325	Thank you. The answer from my colleague, Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84326	Dear colleague Reiner, I was just in my speech trying to suggest to the minister that although it is of course a dangerous area because here when it comes to this subject it seems to me to go every 10 years, put your foot in the door, open the door a little bit, put your foot so that things don't go back and we'll move on. This is kind of happening with both this topic and this bill of law. As I said, the European practice of special courts clearly dictates the pace in which the regulation of the lives of same-sex communities is going. But I would absolutely appeal to the minister to regulate to the end the question of two adoption models that he only pointed out in the law and practically referred to the Family Law. I know it's a very dangerous area, but I think it's necessary for pure and clear relations. As for the right to appeal to conscience, I don't think this law discriminates against anyone. When one day the law is passed, it is binding on all officials as well as the parents in the home office and he absolutely has no appeal to the conscience. Because if we have a conscience call, then we can have any official with whom such a man or a same-sex partner comes either for a building permit or for another thing. The law is the law, and it must be implemented once of course when it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84327	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84328	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Ozbolt. You are the principles of one topic of these children and their fate and their path through these marriages in terms of adoption. I think there's a lot of people behind us who haven't even read the law and don't think. Comrades of God, please and colleagues, let's leave the party, let's leave ourselves to the light, let's leave ourselves to ideology. What SDP, what HDZ are we talking about HDZ are we normal people here? Let's really focus on the problem. This is a law to legalize pedophilia, but in the end you could say so. And I'll tell you how. Just laugh at your HNS buddy and laugh at me. This is for the poster. And I'll prove it's true. One man has a little girl left alone from five to ten years old and he's taking her to his life partner and she's married now to those two men with beards. The father dies this second partner who is the second partner is adopted and then this second partner marries or marries a third man, and that child is a ten-year-old woman in an apartment with two men who are neither a relative nor a helper. Comrade Antičević, you will not understand or are not strong enough to understand. This is a terrible situation, and it's true that I'm talking right now. And take your cell phone and use those keys or your computer to calculate it. And we as responsible people have to consider this situation, see whether we're stupid, or we're immoral, or we're nobody here. And that's Mr. Minister what you have to solve and say whether it's true or not. If so, this situation must not be allowed. And I say so, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84329	Thank you. My colleague Ozbolt's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84330	A colleague, Marasovic, will decide on the fate of such children, and the law makes that clear, will be decided by the court on the basis of all circumstances. And they will follow the court and follow the welfare center the fate of that child. I'm just repeating that it would be good for the law we're discussing today to be sufficiently regulated by these two models that the minister has indicated. As far as pedophilia is concerned, so I'd almost say 99% of the cases of pedophilia come from heterosexual relationships and not from homosexuals, at least not for now, at least not what we've had a chance to see in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84331	Ante Babic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, on the back of what my colleague Marasovic was saying, I'm going to relate to what you were actually saying in your debate and you called for article 1. Family law, and you've presented it well to the minister. In fact, and among other things, you said what it was like to be married, but you were also talking about measures and protecting the rights of the child, the rights of the child, not the rights of the child. Here you are constantly talking about the right to a child, so here the minister proposes in the position of children in life partnerships, and that's what you said the first and second model. According to that second model, as strange as it may be to you that Mr. Marasovic is speaking is true. The Institute of Partnership Care is being established. Partner care also does not allow adoption of a child, the possibility of obtaining a partner’s care would arise only after the death of a parent’s parent, provided that the other parent is not alive. You rule out the possibility and say it's not true because the court decides it. Well, the court can assign that partner a child and then go to a new community of life partnership. So, the truth is what Mr. Marasovic says, that child of 5, 10 or a young child will live in the community of two men who are really nothing to him. This guy's not his biological father, he's not really anything and he's gonna live with them. And there is definitely forgetting the achievement of parental care is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the child is an object and a means to satisfy the wishes of the partners for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84333	Thank you, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84334	Well, I don't know how to explain it to you in some way now, but I wouldn't want it to be understood and somehow it's not the same couple of monsters. They're not monsters, and somehow it's like we're giving the baby a monster now. In the case of heterosexual couples, the adoption procedure is also subject to judicial supervision, subject to the supervision of the welfare centre. So that's what's going to happen in this case. But here is precisely because of these issues, because of these views, the minister should really refer this Law to the third reading or to a vote on the law simply put provisions relating to these two models in this proposed law. And it's according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84335	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84336	Thank you very much. My colleagues Skare-Ozbolt, I think it is very good that in your debate you tried to return everything into the legal frameworks, to constitutional frameworks, and especially to highlight the practice of the courts, which you always point out, and in this case the dispute over children will be decided by the courts, of course, in the best interests of children. But judicial practice, the practice of the Court of Human Rights which actually dictates the pace and where and in what direction the practice of the Member States of the European Union will take place. And that is something that I think is the essence of today's debate, or should at least as well as here once again this opinion of the Constitutional Court, following a debate on a referendum on marriage that was very often political where the Constitutional Court clearly, clearly and unequivocally stated, I will again quote that it is possibly supplementing the Constitution by a provision under which the marriage of a woman and a man should not, therefore, have any effect on further development of the legal frameworks of an extramarital, same-sex community in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and human dignity. It means personal, family life. Because both the community and the partnership we're talking about today are families. And anyone who opposes such a law, if it is passed, of course, can immediately apply to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84337	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84338	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you remember how much dissatisfaction there was from both sides, on the third hand, when it came to defining marriage, setting a definition of marriage. The European Court of Human Rights said that too. He said in 2010 that there was no discrimination when the executive authority or the court of a state... to give the same sex partners the privileges of marriage, so there is no discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bill is a further step towards what we adopted in 2003. But for everyone's sake, it would be best if he were precisely and very clearly regulated especially in those most sensitive things, which are exactly the models of the way children are adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84339	Thank you. The Minister called in his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to refer to something I heard in the replicas, which came out of a correct democratic debate because in response to the replica of Skara Ozbolt, she said everything I wanted to answer. So I'd like to just refer to two things the MP said, and it's two institutes. One parent care institute is described in Articles 40 to 43 and another is described in Articles 44 to 49. So the parent care institute is the Institute of Family Law and a series of provisions of this law are called upon in accordance with a special law governing family relations. As far as partner care is concerned, which was more in the focus of exposure, no provision, so this institute is fully described in this law. So the special law relating to family relations is described in Article 46(1), which speaks of who cannot be a partner, the child’s guardian, so that’s where the individual is talked about. In Article 46(4), which states that the centre is obliged to attach the child's opinion which is able to understand the meaning of partner custody and to take into account the child's wishes in the selection of guardians, unless it is contrary to the child's well-being in a way described in a special law. So that's where you talk about the child's well-being. This is that the court will have to interpret when two of the same sexes come in accordance with family law, so that's not what they're saying in this case. So as far as the details are concerned, given the debate in the first reading, we are in the light of the law, so at the end of the law in Articles 44 to 49 very detailedly described that it would be a case law, so that there should be no subsequent interpretation. So I think that part of 44 to 49 is fully governed by this law, and it's just being explained why this institute is not identical to the adoption institute in the Family Law, and that's what I said in the opening statement. Since we have some amendments and these articles in those two minutes when we talk about amendments, since I have two other minutes here, I will try to explain even more in detail what we may not accept, and in some amendments to Articles 44 and 45, there is also an opportunity to accept in the amendments. So we'll take care of what you said. The second thing you mentioned was the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of X against Austria in 2013. So we took care of that verdict and so what's it about? The Court took the view, the principle of equal treatment, that persons in a similar social situation are treated equally, while persons in a different social situation are treated by states respecting their differences. In Case X v Austria itself, the Republic of Austria, by virtue of the Convention of guaranteed freedom, the assessment of social circumstances characteristic of its society, took a view that the same-sex and extramarital communities in Austria are in a similar social situation. And that was the basis for the court's judgment. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, on the basis of an assessment by the Republic of Croatia on the social circumstances characteristic of Croatian society, we believe that there are objective differences in social circumstances which put the same sex communities in Croatian society at this stage of development in a specific situation that is not identical to the social situation of marriage or extramarital communities. So in a few years, when it is estimated that social circumstances are such that the same sex and extramarital communities are in the same social situation, such a verdict may be applied to the Republic of Croatia, but it cannot be applied now because it is objective so that it is not a social situation. That is why we have developed private legal institutes, and that is why this partner care institute. So precisely because we believe that at this point they are not in the same circumstances of the extramarital and same-sex community, such a verdict would not be applicable in this case, so we also took care of it. I can see I don't have any more time, so I'll get more details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84341	Thank you. We have two replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you have called in your presentation to Article 40, but Article 40 is, in fact, necessarily related to the Family Law which, in its Article 91, the old one in 2003, says a parent cannot give up parental care, and then a new law that has not yet entered into force since 2014, says a parent cannot give up the right to parental care. However, Article 40(1) of this Law gives the life partner the right to receive parental care that a parent is married to under the provisions of the Family Law does not have unless she adopts a child in accordance with the Family Law. Therefore, there is a gap that, in line with what the distinguished representative of Scare Ozbolt said, should be regulated because this opens up different unwanted options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84343	Thank you, too. Answer, here you go, Minister. Would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84344	Yeah, very short. So we're aware of what you said and we're closely following up on the Family Law on the Constitutional Court report a few days ago. Therefore, if there is a need for intervention in this article, there is until Tuesday time to correct it either at entry into force, whether in the context of the family law content itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84345	Next replica of Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84346	So here I thank the Minister for the clarification, but I would ask him one question: who is the parent under Family Law, and who is the parent under this bill? According to this, I would like to suggest to you that it is necessary to define either this law or to resolve the issue of Family Law in a way that mentions the same-sex community, there is no other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84347	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84348	Answer. A parent under Family Law and only under Family Law, because this law does not determine who the parent is. These are persons who are enrolled in the queen’s womb, so in the parent’s books and these are exclusively just two different sexes if we talk about two parents, or if we’re talking about one parent, that’s one. So this law does not determine who the parent is. It determines in some cases who has concerns. But the parent is the only one who is listed in the parent books, and it's always just the only person, if they're two people, people of different sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84349	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. They say repeating is the mother of knowledge, so let me repeat some of the things I've said before. Two years ago, I began a discussion with Hallelujah. Hallelujah for freedom of speech in Croatia. And then we talked about freedom of speech, expression of attitudes, opinions, etc. And We made a great step in this regard. Now I will also use that word, I say Hallelujah, but Hallelujah for Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia. This law, in my opinion, represents a major step towards human rights, human dignity, the rights of persons of same-sex orientation, the rights of Croatian citizens. We've heard a lot in the debate so far of different arguments, of course, and I'm letting someone else have an opinion. However, the second opinion should be supported by arguments, colleagues and colleagues, and the profession agreed primarily medically that the same-sex orientation is not a disease or a matter of choice. Therefore, deny someone the right to settle their lives, especially private lives. So, first of all, we're talking about life inside someone's four walls and a harsh violation of their human rights, at least in my opinion. There have been several opinions that the criteria for the adoption of this law must be the number of citizens to which it applies. So I'm going to repeat that it can't possibly be a criterion, at least not when we're talking about human rights. If this law as I said helps two people, it helps everyone, but it will help a lot more couples, a lot more of our citizens. There's no wrong time for human rights. For human rights every time is a good time, and often for human time today is too late. Yesterday was too late, let alone today. There was a reference to the referendum and the will of the people, but yet I remind you, and some colleagues in this assembly have assured me that this referendum is not directed against any group of society within the Croatian society, not a single group of citizens. And now I'm listening to a different story. I hear the story that Croatian citizens are being played because in the referendum they decided to become a constitutional category of marriage. In that case, however, the referendum would be a referendum against a part of Croatian citizens, and therefore I do not think those allegations stand. Because marriage was and so far it will remain a legally arranged community of women and men as we have mentioned here many times and during the debate on family law there was no intention of changing it. I spoke, so it was mentioned, or before I continued, about the appeal of conscience. Well, that's where I can agree with my colleagues and colleagues and say that there's no appeal to conscience if we're talking about law enforcement. So what's next? Whether a parent refuses to sign a child into a book born because it is different skin color or because it has a different colour, because parents are different faiths or different nationalities. So where's it going to stop? The parents must enforce Croatian law. If this is voted upon, and I believe it will be in the Croatian Parliament as a Croatian law, then they, like all other officials, must respect the law and respect it. I was talking about what kind of Croatia I dreamt? That I dream of Croatia where it's important that you love a person, not who the sex is, that person or who you are. Unfortunately, I've heard a lot of debates, a lot of prejudice, a lot of tough qualifications, and that's not good. It is not good for this dream, it is not good for Croatia, it is not good for Croatian citizens as a whole. To go back to this legislation. In addition to having a moral obligation as elected representatives of the Croatian Parliament to provide all our citizens with the same conditions that you, especially your private life, organise, also have an obligation to the Court of Human Rights to regulate and protect the rights of all citizens. Just when we get to this segment, so same-sex communities, same-sex marriage, whatever you want to call it. And why is that? Because the EU is now insisting on these rights and says it is within the discretionary range of each country to determine and decide how it will handle it, but that it must. As we have heard, some member states have dealt with these problems differently. So some have special laws as I believe Croatia will have, some have same sex communities that are even in all rights with marriages like France and Spain, etc. etc. The Croatian proposal is a democratic compromise. And what exactly is a colleague and colleague compromise? I'll tell you very vividly, as experts say, political theorists. The compromise is when both sides are equally dissatisfied. Which means that in this case those who are liberal will say that this law is not liberal enough, those who are conservative will say that this law is too liberal. I believe that the law is in place, that it corresponds to a given moment in Croatian society and that it takes into account all the rights and dignity of our citizens that I hope we will resolve with this law. The minister had already mentioned in his presentation before my debate that the situation in society was evolving. That our society as well as all other societies is developing, that attitudes and social opinions change, etc. We will remember, and there was an allusion to the debate and in 2003 when we passed the Law on Same-Sex Communities and now debate in 2014 when we passed a very different law from that perspective, so from the perspective of 2003 much more radically almost unimaginable at the time but something that we are all willing to at least declare and generally accept today. Who says that in 10 years or less, we will not discuss a different legal proposal, the amendments and additions to this bill when the community will look quite alike as well as their rights to the marriage community. The example set by the minister is the extramarital community. Also about 10, 15 years ago, almost unimaginable in Croatian society to be equal to marriage, but here's the new Family Law. So, Croatian society as well as any society is what develops, views change as well as other accepted norms. That's how the legislation changes. Someone here mentioned that we're making laws for eternity. Well, colleagues and colleagues, that's funny. Well, if our ancestors had passed the laws of eternity, they'd probably still be living in slave society. Society and relations in society are changing, both economically and all others, and so does this. And so the laws must change and follow the trends in society and the demands of modern society. This law protects the dignity of our citizens, protects their right to organise their private life, to consume certain rights as some of the speakers before me have said which some take for granted, the right to visit during the illnesses in the hospital, the right to inherit, the right to share common acquired property, etc., etc. You will agree that many of us have never thought of these rights being denied. Well, there are our citizens who are. And this is what we finally solve this problem and finally protect both their right and their dignity. I don't want to get involved in anyone's private life, nor should I, and I'm afraid I've had the impression from some discussions that some people want to get into other people's beds all the time. Prescribing other people's worldview colleagues and colleagues is not good. We talked a lot about some values in society, I would also like and dream about that Croatian society, acceptance society, society of inclusion, not exclusion, society of community rather than isolation. And that's why I think about all the questions, especially those that don't touch others to say so, so as one of the speakers mentioned, I think it was a colleague Coleman, this law and those who are against it will absolutely lose nothing, to show a little more understanding of the problems, the daily problems that a part of our fellow citizens face every day, and which, at least so far, have been insurmountable to them. So this is one small step forward towards Croatia as I dreamt and said I was dreaming. I hope that for my life and that I will present this dream and see Croatia that will accept, and not refuse and that will include and not rule out. And that's why this bill of law has my full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84351	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you first said a sentence that is very interesting. Prescribing others is not a good thing. I could agree with that if this wasn't exactly what it was. So this is exactly what this is, and that is publicly said, the prime minister publicly said that it is a world-wide law, says that it is a world-wide law, which was said to be the world-wide law of a part of the population, which most of the population wants to prescribe its own worldview. So it's exactly the opposite of what you said. You also said that compromise is when both sides are equally dissatisfied. I don't agree with that. I think the compromise is when both sides are equally satisfied. I'd like us to vote such a law here where both sides or all sides, because society isn't exactly divided into black and white, society is in different shades of gray, I'd say, that everyone is more or less satisfied. Not perhaps completely satisfied but more or less satisfied. The criterion for all being equally unhappy and equally dissatisfied is that I don't think anyone is responding, especially to the group to which this law applies. So we're not gonna say we're happy if they're unhappy? And we claim that we make the law so that we can make them happier. It reminds me of yesterday's discussion when we also had the opportunity to listen to the Labour Act from the Minister of Labour that the best proof that this law is good is that they are actually against him and the trade unions and employers and everyone. Well, I'd be much happier if for that law everyone was at least somewhat satisfied, not that everyone was against him. For me, it's proof that it's not a good law. Therefore, I fear that if we take these criteria, we will not be happy in the future with the results of our legislative activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84353	Thank you. Domagoj Hajdukovic, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Reiner, yes, so we can agree that we have different worlds, but this is one law that primarily solves a part of our fellow citizens' private lives and does not touch anything but their private lives. It doesn't touch anyone, so neither are you worldly for other reasons against it. You will not lose anything by this law being passed, but Croatian society, one part of its citizens will get. And that's why I think, so there's going to be some problems that don't mean anything to you, but that means absolutely everything to someone, and that's the value of that law if you ask me. As for the compromise, this, this term I used wasn't made up by me. So it's about political theorists who say picturesquely, above all, that compromise is when we're all equally unhappy. But we can, I could have chosen as well to say that compromise is when everyone is equally satisfied. In this case, as I said, those who are liberal are not satisfied with the law because they are not liberal enough, those who are conservative are not satisfied with the law because it is too liberal. But I think this law is one midway, one compromise democratic that is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84355	Next replica, Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84356	I agree with my colleague Hajdukovic with you, I just wanted to react to that part of your discussion that you spoke about calling for conscience, to actually give another argument that we didn't hear in the debate today and that I hope now when I say it here that no one will actually question him anymore. At the end of May of last year, more than a year ago, the European Court of Human Rights refused to press charges against a British mother who complained to the European Court of Human Rights just from this story, so that she has the appeal of conscience as a Christian that she could not conclude, they call it a civil partnership, so it would be something like our life partnership. And the European Court of Human Rights has rejected this appeal to the conscience by saying that it is not really a violation of its rights as a believer, as Christian, with all these arguments that we have spoken. So, if anyone here in Croatia, in this debate had a dilemma that or not to appeal to the conscience, assessed our arguments as badness, we have the appropriate, but now and practice of the European Court in a way that rejected this lawsuit and so I think that it should, so if anything else closes the mouth to those who are saying that we should introduce an appeal of conscience and saying that human rights are actually being violated here now and those who might have the call of conscience. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84357	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Ante Babic, please. How? [[Intruder: Wrong, Boris Blazekovic.]] But it's wrong, I'm sorry. Boris Blazekovic, it's the wrong applications, I'm sorry my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you noticed. Everyone in the world is born with four inalienable rights, the right to life, the right to security, the right to freedom and the right to happiness. These natural rights cannot be denied or denied by anyone, neither by parents, nor by society, let alone by the state. We're all born not by our own will, we're born individually and completely different, white, black, yellow, red with blue or black eyes, or black hair, we're born as heterosexual, bisexual or homosexual. During childhood, we are formed by family, environment, and society, and after 18 years of life, he begins to take full responsibility for his life in his own hands. Earlier, but after 18 years, we're completely choosing our own lifestyle, and that's our inalienable right, that's our personal freedom, the freedom of each individual, and it's unlimited until it starts to threaten the freedom of another individual. Anyone whose free choice of lifestyle in no way endangers the freedoms of any other person. We have to admit, I must admit, I am personally fascinated by the amount of passion that certain individuals, groups and certain political parties are trying to make unhappy some of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens of certain individuals and individuals. The incredible amount of energy invested in eliminating the fundamental human rights of certain individuals and individuals who do not endanger anyone at all. Their only crime is that they are something different in behavior, in life’s preferences, and that they are a minority, is their only crime of falling in love, love, and desire to enjoy their own happiness with the same sex. Homosexuals and homosexuals pose no threat to anyone. And the very fact that they are targeted by the same sex does not endanger anyone and do nothing, they are our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who, just like all other citizens and fellow citizens, are born, go to school, work, pay taxes and suffer all the benefits and disadvantages of modern society, reality and everyday life. Like all citizens, they have every right to be fully equal in all rights, to ask their country to protect them, to provide them with a legal framework as well as all other citizens and citizens in order to achieve their happiness. The people of the same sex want only one thing, have the exact same right that any other person in particular in mutual partnership, they want it publicly, and they want it institutionally. And in an institutional sense, states must, in accordance with the human rights of each individual or individual, enable and in a public sense, protect them. By my personal deep conviction as a society, we failed a maturity test when we accepted with such a high percentage the recent referendum requirement that marriage is an alliance exclusively between a man and a woman. Marriage is a legal institute that is prescribed by the state and should also apply to all citizens and citizens and thus the constitutional provision is completely discriminatory and homophobic because it excludes all persons who are not male and female from the application of this legal institute. And all legal institutes must treat all adult persons equally. The function of the state is very simple to explain, the state has only one purpose and task to make all its citizens and citizens a simple, easier, more beautiful and happier life. The State must be just for all and must make laws, rules equal to everyone and everyone, and so on with regard to the consumption of the right to a shared life of two minors. Every adult has the right, full and absolute autonomy to decide and choose their lifestyle and each adult has the right to choose their partner or partner freely. And no one, and especially the state, has the right to question this choice, let alone the only decision of the state to regulate the rights and obligations arising from this relationship and this clear law. And I am therefore sorry that, as a state and society, we are not at the level that we can apply the legal institute of marriage to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, probably in that case, only a few articles of the Family Law should be amended, not a whole new law. As recently in the referendum on marriage, we refused to discuss the Law on the Life Partnership of a person of the same sex that corrects the centuries of injustice against our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, homosexuals and in minimal form or content. The same-sex communities remain discriminated against by the adoption of children. Given the current social opportunities, current relations and behaviour against same-sex communities and homosexuals in Croatia at all, this is a minimal but obviously optimal framework at this time related to the regulation of the relationship between the same-sex communities and the persons of the same-sex orientations. As already said, the bill is an attempt at a democratic compromise between the value of the position and the world-wide horizon currently in tension in Croatian society. Everyone has the right to live in absolute freedom until they enter space and begin to threaten other people's freedoms. Everyone has the right to choose their own style and lifestyle and no one has the right to take it away from anyone and all legal institutes must treat all adult persons equally. And in the end, I want to repeat once again that homosexuals are just being homosexual, but they're not endangering anyone at all. With this bill of law, this country, with the rest of it protecting the fundamental human right of individuals, is the right to happiness that drives us towards a better, fairer and more advanced society. This bill raises us as people on a scale of civilization progress. And that's why I'm personally proud to be one of those who will vote for that law. It is likely that a positive vote of this law will make life happier, more content, fairer, more quality, and one part safer for individuals of equal orientation. Unfortunately, however, this debate today shows that prejudices in one part of our society are huge and LGBT people will certainly not be much easier and at associations that protect LGBT rights this struggle for recognition and acceptance has not yet ended. The draft life partnership law, in my opinion, should certainly be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84359	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Blažekovic, you have made one whole series of general claims about happiness, etc. as one whole series of supporters of the law said. However, little is said about the very essence of the law, a little is said, and I have tried several times in a way to point it out, and to move away from stories of equality, happiness, etc. They are something that we can agree on at some point we can agree less because if we take just a measure of happiness then someone is happy I don't know one man with two women, can be very happy and everyone can be very happy and we still limit that freedom and their happiness, etc. But if we're talking about the essence of the law there's a lot of problems here, I've pointed out and expected that in this discussion, a few colleagues will really get away from some general claims and look at the fact that I pointed out that we have a situation that matter covered by articles 40 to 79 really gets in the way of a dozen laws that norming these articles is one very dared to say dangerous precedent because, consequently, a number of other vulnerable groups. And we have them in our society, they're not the same-sex orientation as the vulnerability to say so, we have vulnerable groups of disabled people, children, etc. I can look for a similar thing, that in one law everything will be covered and then there will actually be no obstacle that such a law in its rights and obligations in one place, instead of having it scattered on several different laws I don't know have single parents, say, or I don't know poor farmers, etc. So one whole series of vulnerable groups because it would be easier for them too, much easier to apply one law and those they face in the exercise of their rights as well. This could therefore result, and yet there would be a complete dispersion in the functioning of state and public services. I have extended a little, given that many other colleagues from the ruling have extended to 25 seconds, 30 seconds, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84361	Mr. Vice President, you'll have a chance to lead, and you'll decide how long it takes. The answer of my colleague Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84362	Thank you very much. It is true, Mr. Reiner, that I spoke very little about the articles of the law because I agree more or less with all the articles of the law, and I believe that they are entirely and almost all but some, and that is especially true of the adoption of the child because I believe that the possibility of adopting a child and homosexual couples should be introduced, I believe that the articles are good. And I was talking about my personal worldview and what I feel at this moment and through the discussions we heard today in this House, and also through media reactions from the formation of certain associations from the actions of certain associations, from a referendum on marriage which was that unfortunately in Croatia there is not enough awareness that we are all born the same and that no one is absolutely anyone in my opinion that is something that is amazing and it is one luxury that I don't know how anyone can afford not have the right to endanger anyone else's right. Marriage is not a human right, it's an institute. But the consumption of that right must be for everyone and it's not the same. And then, in that context, human rights are at stake. And if someone is going to marry, they are not going to marry, so it is really his personal matter, and no one can or can influence it. And because I agree with most or almost all of the articles of this law, and I believe that this law is an extremely positive and strong civilizational step towards a progressive society. I don't think I was talking about the very articles of the law, and I was talking about the problems that are burdening this society, and I think we still have to get rid of them eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84363	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Blazekovic, you said yes and you talked about human happiness, so you said that about the happiness of those who feel love for the same sex. I don't want to mess up that love at first to tell you. You see, there are those who are happy in other forms of human relationships, such as some swinger group, so then there are polygamists who like to be surrounded by more women etc., and tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and they can set up various associations and ask for a change of these laws however they think about life related... They're also peaceful citizens of this country, they don't make problems, they don't attack anyone, they don't bother anyone, they live their lives neatly and they're undetectable in this society, and there are them, we know they have them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I don't know how to proceed. So there's progress in terms of a legal solution like this, we'll see how far that progress goes. But when you talk about adopting children, and you mentioned that too, then I have to remind you that you have not talked about articles that out of the 80 articles of this bill 25 of them, 25 articles refer to the rights of children or children in such communities. What does that mean? Should this law then bear a different name? It is therefore called the final draft law on the life partnership of persons of the same sex and children associated with such partners. Because 25, 25 articles refer to children. In fact, this topic of children and children’s problems in such communities is being kept secret in secret and later in the legal text in the 25 articles is being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84365	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84366	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Grubisic, in the first part of your replica, we don't have anything to talk about here, because we're talking about pears and apples, about all the other things. And there is no time now to explain in detail what this law is about and what it is about the same-sex community, etc. But I'm going to look back at this second part, so that's the problem, but maybe in some way a compliment to the legislator who really tried to take care of the welfare of a child in such communities, even though I say personally I think it would be a good idea to make an even greater step towards modernism and modern consideration of the overall problem, and that adoption of children is allowed by same-sex marriages because these same-sex people, or those people who enter into such a community, are limited by their human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84367	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, the Minister is not here, Mr. Cesarik is here as Deputy Minister of Health. Is that a message or are you also appointed? A, from the government, is fine then. My colleagues and colleagues remember the first reading of this Law and what I was saying then, and it was shortly after the referendum was held, I was talking about the Institute of Life Partnership that these institutes actually show a direct attempt at equalising marriage with same-sex communities. And today I am adding, and I am firmly convinced that the Proposal for this Life Partnership Act is anti-constitutional, that it is discriminatory and combined with other regulations must lead to socially dangerous solutions, as well as a colleague of Skare-Ozbolt, so I will not repeat myself. But certainly, the legislator takes life's partnership as a competition, as pure symmetry or parallelism of marriage, in fact, each other's name for marriage. In his replicas, Mr. Minister said today, probably what he subconsciously thought that biological reproduction could provide only a community of two different sexes and no law could change, he said, a natural fact that every man was from a community of men and women, so it is not, it is not the same. I will have enough time to talk about the law in fact because we have talked a lot today and we have looked back at the law itself without mentioning certain things that should be changed accordingly, the Croatian Democratic Community has sent some 36 amendments to this law. So I will start with the reasoning of this Law which says that the legal framework governing the position of same-sex communities in the Republic of Croatia is insufficient but the legislator acknowledges that the Law on Same-Sex Communities provides the same-sex partners with the right to mutual restraint and the right to acquire common property, which means by accepting this Act we will now have two laws on same-sex communities. Then what the minister was saying, he spoke about the Charters of the European Court of Human Rights and said it explicitly states that the Charter of Human Rights of the European Union defines marriage as a community of two, stressing that the question of the definition of marriage is, among other things, within the competence of the Member State. The regulation of relations with children if they live in a family community of same-sex partners will lead to the interest of child protection, we talked about it today and we talked about the need to talk about the rights that have a child, not the right, not the right to have a child, children, and in fact the legislator talks about the situation of children in life partnerships and lists two models. This second model was also heard in replicas, which is true, I will repeat, the possibility of getting partner care would only arise after the death of a life partner and a child's parents, provided that the other parent is not alive. The proposer takes this law as a life partnership definitely as a competition, so he proposes this marriage and therefore proposes this law. The final draft of the law is an attempt at a democratic compromise, says the minister, between the values of views and the world's current tensions in Croatian society, which is true. The Law itself states in Article 2: Life partnership is a community of family life of two persons of the same sex, concluded before the competent authority in accordance with the provisions of this law. Article 3(1) states that the informal life partnership is a community of family life of two persons of the same sex who have not concluded a life partnership with the competent authority, if the community lasts for at least 3 years and meets the assumptions prescribed for the validity of the life partnership. Is then an informal life partnership an obstacle to entering another informal partnership, and if it isn't, then it's really polygamy. Article 13(2) states: persons intending to enter into a life partnership will submit, where appropriate, extracts from the birth certificate. Why, if necessary, why not always? Article 21 states in paragraph 2: The parent will meet the persons who intend to enter into a life partnership with the provision of this law, on their rights and duties, and the highlighted meaning of the conclusion of a life partnership. What will a parent say if today the minister said no means were needed to implement this law. They should probably educate themselves on what they're going to talk about, then through the Queen's Law, registries, etc., etc. Therefore, certain funds will be needed. Article 30 states: procedures before a court relating to life partnership disputes which are not covered by this law shall be subject to the provisions of a special law governing family relations. Now which court, litigious or extra-parny, and what are the rules? And you should know that, because the application of the Family Law is also governed by the Law on Prosecution. That's not listed here. Then, in Article 37, life partners have the right to protect the privacy of family life and the right to mutual unity. I don't understand what it's mutually common. Article 38, I was talking about this today, and it is, in fact, the equalization of life partnership and marriage, that when a person intends to enter into a life partnership, they can agree on all the basics that are actually prescribed and married. That's what I was talking about, it's also the Institute of Life Partnership, that everyone keeps their last name, common name, to take both last names, etc. Article 40, that was the most talk today, this is about the first model, or the second model, which is actually about the right to a child, and not the right of children, which is very important, and these provisions concerning children are contrary to the provisions of the Charter definitely on the rights of the child, which is part of what the minister admitted to you today because it is in paragraph 4. So there's no child's consent anywhere. That's exactly what we're talking about, and that's the opposite of Article 12. Convention on the Rights of the Child. The child in this case becomes an object. In Article 46, a partner, the child’s guardian, appeared suddenly in paragraph 1, cannot be a person who does not meet the conditions for the appointment of custodians prescribed by a special law. Where did this institute partner guardian who wasn't in this first reading come from? In fact, Article 47 and paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 refer to the adoption of children. The partner care note is entered in the Matica of the born of that child in the adoption of children. In Article 49, the competent court adopts a solution to the termination of partner care and is now reportedly not allowing a biological parent of a child who is alive to seek a solution to the termination of a partner’s care. It means when a life partner dies that this biological parent can seek such a solution. And according to the end, it is related to the prohibition of discrimination, it is said that unfavorable treatment is based on the life partnership status on access to all services, both in the market and in the public sector is a form of discrimination, as such is prohibited. It is an act of conscience, a force to participate in the ceremony, and let's say it is forbidden in Austria, it is forbidden to hold any ceremony related to the life partnership. In accordance with Article 73(2) of the provisional stay procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the competent authority shall pay particular attention to the circumstances in which the life partners kept their family life secret. I mean, what a privilege it is to keep the same-sex people secret from each other, and today we're going to have this law passed on Friday. There was still a lot of talk today about this law. I don't honestly want to repeat myself, my time is up, I don't think in this form of law we're going to accept, and yet we've submitted 36 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84369	We're moving on to replicas, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Babic, you mentioned a number of controversial things in this law. However, I would only bend down to what you said at the beginning, which is how this law treats the constitutional provision of marriage and that it comes down to actually just a name, not content. In fact, it was in some way indicated from the very beginning after such a formulation entered the Constitution, then immediately those who advocated a different attitude declared how they would react. For example, a very prominent activist against the first National Constitutional Conference announced more than a year ago. I quote: "If the constitutional text introduces the definition that marriage is a community of the life of a woman and a man only achieves one thing, the word "marriage" for a community of women and men is reserved. Just a word, a name and a name and nothing more. The legal content of marriage, the extramarital community and family relations is entirely left to the legislator with the exception that there cannot be gender discrimination. The reservation of the name of the legal institute of marriage is absolutely nothing about whether or not concrete rights will be given to same-sex partners, so it is entirely possible to recognise the true scope similar to or even the same as the right marriage. And then half a year later, again, I quote, "If the referendum passes, that means that the word "marriage" will be reserved for a community of women and men." Such a reservation means just that, a reservation of words. All other rights stemming from marriage are not this eventual constitutional definition prevented by other types of communities that have exact rights, and these can also be all the rights that marriage partners have. Therefore, such an attitude that the advocates against the referendum had concluded that they could adjudicate the provisions of the Constitution. Unfortunately, the government also took it because it said that the proposed law differs life partnership and marriage only in two things in the name and right of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84371	Thank you. Answer to the replica Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84372	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner, well, you were talking about it, and that's what the minister was saying. He does not keep it a secret about the very definition of marriage carried out through a referendum where Croatian citizens have declared themselves. That's a lot to talk about today. I will repeat it once more not only for marriage as a concept, but as a content and actually confirm a valuable system, a marriage system. You don't have to agree, but that's what I think and answer to my colleague Reiner. The fact is, if you remember this referendum that all the members of the government, including the President of the Republic, worked very hard not to pass the referendum, and shortly after learning the results of this referendum, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Policy and Youth said that we are not interested in the outcome of this referendum at all. We have enough hands in Parliament and that law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84373	Next replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84374	You're telling your colleague that a certain provision of this law violates the rights of a child and that a child is treated as an object, not an entity contrary to the International Convention and the rights of a child. In a particular case, it's not like that at all, because it's every man's right to have children. It's a fundamental human right and it doesn't collude with the other rights of the child that was born. Because in that case, I ask you which of us here was born that someone had asked him before, because in today's technology, it's still not possible. Also confirming and supporting and agreeing with your college statement is true that there is no life and cannot be a new life in a community that is not a community of men and women. Have you not then heard of the Law of Medical Aided Insemination? Haven't you heard of extramarital fatherhood and motherhood? Don't you know that there are people who live in a marriage and have children out of marriage? So where do you live?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84375	Answer. Would you like to answer that? You won't. Maria Lugaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84376	Very short. You said a lot in your debate things out of actual inaccuracies. For example, you said that by passing this law we would have two laws in force. Incorrectly, Article 81 of this Law provides for the termination of the Law on the same-sex Communities. So it's very simple to check up on some grades that you have a right to that are completely incorrect. You said, among other things, that the adoption of this law is to introduce a life partnership, that it will become a competition of marriage. You're married. I beg you, do I not understand how any life partnership registered or informally can be a competition for your marriage? That I have to admit is a pretty interesting structure. So, I don't know if the law forces you to part with your wife and enter a life partnership with some kind of man? So, that's really important I think in some way to clarify because you're making a false impression on this law, you're scaring people without a clue. And the last. In the amendments, you said it as a club, you strengthened it, you said that life partnership is not and cannot be a community of family life. It's a very dangerous statement, because first it's incorrect. It really is a family. Family isn't just mom, dad, kids. They're single-parent families, they're children who live with their grandparents, aunts, guardians, and the like. And yes, the communities of the same sex are also family communities, and thus the European Court of Human Rights has been very clear that they are stable same-sex communities representing a family unit and as such enjoying protection in accordance with Article 8. Convention. Therefore, one of your grades that you may be speaking for some day-to-day political purposes, but about these serious things I think you should be careful, you should keep such categorical statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84377	Thank you. Answer, fellow Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84378	My colleague Lugarić may have misunderstood some things, it is possible that you did not want to understand, I said that by adopting this Life Partnership Act, this marriage alone is not called as such. The law on same-sex communities is still in force. True, that's what it says, but he's in effect. Now we're going to pass a new law on same-sex communities. We talked about it today, and I once said that the Law on Same-Sex Communities was possible to change and supplement if there were elements of things that might have bothered the same-sex communities in ownership, when they visited hospitals, real estate, anything could have gone into the amendments and additions of that Law on Isex Communities, and not passed this new law. I, the other formulations were gone, and I don't think I said anything else that you might have misunderstood in that case. As far as this is concerned, I've said it several times today if you've listened closely to both the first model and the second model. I have this opinion, I should elaborate it for a long time, something we talked through these lines today with my colleague, Scare-Ozbolt, so I won't repeat myself. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84379	Thank you. And the last replica, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague asked a whole series of questions, in two minutes you can't answer all of them, I'll try to answer two. First of all, why the thesis on polygamy? It's not true, or it's a nonsens. The provision concerning the informal life partnership calls for two provisions. At the provision of the Family Law which speaks of an extramarital community, and we know that in an extramarital community there can be no one who is already married or in a life partnership but also calls for the provision of this Article 11 law which speaks of the assumptions of the validity of a life partnership where he repeats that he cannot, in an informal life partnership, be a person who is already married or registered, call him such a life partnership. And whether or not someone really is married is going to live in an extramarital state in this case to the same-sex community we cannot prevent by any law. It's his fundamental human right. So that's the first thesis where you're wrong. The second thesis is the one relating to the delivery of birth certificates or extracts from the queen of birth, the queen of marriage and other documents. Why do we say it if we need it? So we say this because of that point that is 13th or 14th on the agenda or next, which is the state information infrastructure that will finally ensure that we have a state without paper, so no one else will have to deliver any documents, and at least the birth and other documents will already be able to determine that by clicking on the computer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84381	Thank you, too. There's no answer. We're continuing an individual debate. Peja Grbin, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84382	Here's a thank you. So it turns out that right after the replica, I keep going, but here. I'll start with what I consider most important, and that's where our obligation to pass this law comes from. It is our obligation to ensure that citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the same rights as those of heterosexual orientations. And this is the right to family life and the right to protect such a life, the right to protection against discrimination and the right to protection from imbalances that came from the referendum at the request of the citizens' initiative "In the name of the family" which, for a certain time in the Croatian legal system, reserved the name marriage for the community of men and women. Someone might ask this claim of mine where does such a commitment come from? The answer is clear, it comes from the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and a whole series of international contracts and interpretations of such contracts by the Republic of Croatia. The most important basis for the adoption of this law is the Constitution which prescribes that equality is one of our highest values and that it is the basis for each interpretation of the Constitution, that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independently of its race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other characteristics. Our obligation to pass such a law stems from international documents. By protecting the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights has several times stood up to protect the same-sex communities. My colleagues have talked about it today, but we're going to have to keep saying it over and over again. In the case of Schalk-Kopf v Austria, the Court clearly points out the link between the applicant of the same-sex couple living in a stable de facto partnership belongs to the area of family life in the same way as the sex couple in the same situation. The European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that the same-sex community is the kind of life union that is considered a family life, a family. I'll do it again, I've already said it, and the same-sex community is family. Not because I consider it, not even because the European Court of Human Rights has said it, the EU Court, is a family because it is that simple. Because it's two people who want to live together. And such a community we must protect. That's what our Constitution says. I read the amendments submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club today. And these are those amendments that require the erasure of the words familyly from the law, in a whole series of articles. They're asking us to remove any reference to the family from this law. We can't do that and we can't do that. That would violate our constitution. That was also the case today, but once again, the right to respect family life is guaranteed by the Constitution to all persons regardless of gender and gender. And it's under the direct protection of the Constitutional Court. That's what our Constitutional Court says. The right to respect family life. It also says that the Constitutional Court considers it necessary to highlight the following, possible addition of the Constitution to a provision under which marriage is a woman and a man's life union should have no effect on further development of the legal frameworks of the non-marriage and same-sex communities in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic of Croatia should have the right to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life. The amendments to the Family Law have made progress and the development of an out-of-marriage community institute, this law makes the same progress, the same development is achieved in the area of protection of the same-sex community. Not because we want to, not because we want to, but because we have to. Now, we have to talk about content, what content of a poor law-ordered same-sex community must have? She spoke about the lack of obligation to give the same rights to the same sex community, which it also has, and called for the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in 2010. However, we also had a European Union court. Since 1 July of last year, we are obliged to respect the decisions of that court, and the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of a case against the loan of Gricol, said, the purpose of Directive 2000/78 is to combat employment and interest in certain forms of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation with the aim of applying the principle of equal treatment in the Member States, and the Court has decided accordingly that in those Member States where marriage is not permitted, which is Croatia, you have repeatedly mentioned, Croatia is a country where the Constitution is at least not allowed to marry between the two persons of the same sex so far. The rights arising from such a marriage in a specific case of the right to relief, free days and so on must be recognised under the same conditions by persons found in a law governed by the same-sex community. It is precisely from that of all the provisions of the laws governing the area to which this law will apply that enters into matter of all other regulations, pension insurance, health insurance, etc. Again, not because we want to, not because we want to, but because we have to do it because we are bound by the provisions of European law. We entered the EU with our own free will, and no one forced us to do so. So what we have ahead of us is not some upgrade, it is not some kind of super standard this law is a minimum that the Republic of Croatia must do in order to respect our Constitution as well as the international documents that we are a member of, and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and EU Treaties and other regulations such as the Directive on the Protection of Discrimination. I will end up with certain thoughts concerning the very text of this law, which I consider to be good, and this proposal that we have in our second reading and further improved in relation to what was in the first reading especially with the adoption of the proposal by my colleague Reiner to install in the law the condemnation of domestic violence or the acceptance of that proposal on the establishment of partner care and the life of another parent child if his parental care has been taken away from him because of domestic violence. Today we have also received a few amendments, about those amendments of my colleagues from HDZ I have already shown myself, we must not accept them at all. By adopting these amendments, this law would be ready to be repealed in the Constitutional Court within a quicker time than the one discussed by the HDZ colleagues. However, amendments have also come to be accepted. One of them is that amendment of colleagues Lucin, colleagues of Coleman and colleagues of Vuksic on adoption. You said that adoption of children should not, but I think it is a step that we should take, do something to get away from this minimum that is ahead of us and make a law that will be proud not only today when we adopt it but also for a whole number of years that will be there and will be used and applied in the Republic of Croatia until the day that we will finally be able to, by law, regulate and the possibility of making a same-sex marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84383	Thank you. Comrade Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84384	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. So here, through the discussion of how she's moving, we're actually getting to what's being said all the time, because a little bit, more and more talk about marriage, less and less talk about same-sex communities. It's not clear to me that I have to admit in this law whether this life partnership is a community of family life of two people of the same sex of homosexual orientation, or whether this community of two people of the same sex is any kind of orientation? I can't read it anywhere. Why do I ask that, because if it's not a community of two people of the same sex of homosexual orientation, then this law can cause a variety of manipulations in society. You are always talking about marriage, and it has been repeated here often, but it has been repeated over and over again, and it has to be repeated that 946 433 voters voted for the definition of marriage, and that there were 481 534 voters, 65.87% of citizens who went to the referendum said that for Croatia the marriage was a community of men and women. But I don't want that much, I'm actually going to look back on something completely different. When the lawyer's report on gender equality was here a few days ago, then it was said in this assembly that something like a deficit in the birth of children is a bigger problem than the deficits in the state budget. And we know that the deficit problem in the state budget is a very big problem, but I agree with what was said, I think it was just said by the Kukuriku coalition, from these lines, that really this problem of the deficit in the birth of children is a bigger problem than the deficit in the state budget. Why am I saying that, I'm saying this because this law basically imposes an anti-population social status. You have a situation that according to the 2013 DZS data, Croatia had a negative population increase last year because the number of live births to... is less than the number of deaths. According to this data last year, in Croatia live births were 39,939, and the deaths of 50,386 means continued long-term negative natural growth because the comparison with... data shows that the last positive increase in Croatia was recorded in '97. Statistics show that in 2013 for the first time since 2003, the number of live births was less than 40,000. Why am I saying that? I'm saying this because if we want to reduce the childbearing deficit, then we have to implement a population policy to create conditions and climate that birth is essentially what this country needs and without what this country can't do. Such a law, no matter what many think I'm saying wrong, is not directed in that direction, so it creates a different climate, creates another process that is slowly taking place. He's trending it's right, he comes from developed countries. I wonder if everything that comes from developed countries is always so good to grab, receive or listen to the will of Croatian citizens, because we are here in the Parliament, you will vote this law, it is so normal, you have the majority, but you must be aware that by raising your hand to vote on this law you raised your hand against most of the will of Croatian citizens who have decided in the referendum that marriage is defined as a community of men and women. I was also asking a question in one of the replicas when a basis was made for the preparation of this law, whether or not it was taken into account and looked at the base a little bit in the statistics and then I asked how many such couples or persons in Croatia are currently living in an illegal community, because until the adoption of this law it cannot be legalised as such in this way as you say here as a marriage as a family. Why did I ask that? I asked why I should ask a question, so what's more important to this society? Is it more important for this society to discuss firstly the preservation of 700 thousand people living in rural areas, so we could discuss in the Assembly a reform of a common agricultural policy that will make a bad decision in the long run for those people who live there, is this the topic that could have been discussed perhaps before this law, without reducing its importance by respecting every human being? But I'm asking what are the criteria for determining the laws that are being put on the agenda, which are getting priorities what is that? And what has already been said here often, so it is a very clear intention, it has been said several times when it has been seen that the referendum will pass in a way that defines marriage as a community of men and women has already been said out of circles of ruling, let the people vote as they wish to vote, we in the Assembly will make a decision that we think is good and that suits us. Do you have a right? You have no right to do that. You have to listen to the citizens. The referendum is stronger than most in the Croatian Parliament and every serious one would listen to it, every serious one would take it very seriously because in the end it would not have been if such a law had not already been passed. So the attempt to pass a law like this caused a referendum, so when it comes to spending money, then we have to say that the cause of this spending of money in the referendum came from the ranks of the ruling attempt to impose such a law. Now you're proposing it this way, you're going to bring it in like this. I repeat and conclude, I ask the question, does this law only apply to homosexual couples or does it apply to anyone? If it refers to anyone I repeat, can there be manipulation in the succession of property transfer, can there be what some colleagues have said that people of heterosexual tendencies to sign such a contract that they are practically married to introduce their children into it and that there can be serious problems in society?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84385	Comrade Hrg, no one has ever written for a law like this or against a law like this. The question was quite different and it is not correct to argue like that. Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84386	Thank you. My question is actually this is more a question than a replica. Is there anyone who's gay orientation who can be married? Yeah, it's not illegal for me to know how much I read Family Law. Can anyone be married without ever eating? It can, as far as I know, and as far as I know, and as it says in the family law. So why wouldn't such a rule apply to a life partnership? Please, I'm asking you here to explain this to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84387	The answer to Branko Hrg's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84388	Well, I have nothing to explain to you, you've basically given yourself an answer. So now people are living, no one in that part was defending them and I'm asking why we're passing the law then?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84389	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84390	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There are three things that one is similar to what a colleague of the coat of arms asked. So here's a question: is it just a community of the same sex of homosexual orientation? Also, regardless of the constitutional provisions of marriage, homosexual women and homosexual men can enter. So that all kinds of manipulations and definitions are possible on all possible plans. And this law is passed in order to make the persons of the same sex feel safer, to live happier, and to allow the state to allow all other heterosexuals to have security in social, health, retirement, in the desert, all that they have left... That's why this law is passed, not because someone likes it or doesn't like it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. That it's an anti-population social attitude to pass this law. It's just blasphemous and funny, I think it can be, if someone wants to have children in marriage they'll have it. And even if he's gay and wants to have a baby, he'll find a way to have a baby if he cares terribly. I know a lot of people who are gay orientations, who are married and no one can defend them, have no right to defend them because it's the choice of lifestyle that each of us has the right to no matter what direction he was. And so every heterosexual person has a lot of right to be in a particular community of whatever they choose with homosexuals and vice versa and in all combinations. And he says it is not at the will of Croatian citizens and that it is the majority against it. It is the will of Croatian citizens but the truth of the minority and it is only the majority that can defend the rights of the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84391	The answer to Branko Hrg's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84392	Well, a respected colleague of mine, in principle, when I was asking a question of technical nature whether this law applies only to the same-sex couples of homosexual commitment, set the stage so that those who are not of this definition could actually manipulate this law. So that's what I'm talking about. And as for the anti-population attitude, we know that social trends are very easy to manage people. So very easy something becomes popular, very easy something becomes in. So this is definitely the law for generations of younger people, if it is well spoken, promoted, and I don't doubt it will, it can become and certainly won't affect population policy as it would affect the adoption of some laws that popularize marriage as a community of men and women and families based on that kind of relationship, certainly won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84393	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84394	Well, you see, colleague, this particular fear of yours that this law can be so encouraging to those who are not such orientations as to conclude such communities. And once again, I will confirm what I said this morning that basically all the opponents of this Law are being consecrated for their weak faith in marriage and those values that are important for you, which are just being told by my colleague Blažekovic that no one asks these people what their orientations are, that they can be married, that these partners can also have extramarital children and so on, but it is important for you that the marriage covers everything. You say here's a referendum played by a referendum. And the referendum required a constitutional definition. No content but definition. Although the initiators were saying we didn't... as rescuers, they moved into that initiative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says we're not against, no matter what, we're just in. When the referendum was voted upon, when and it was known that this law would come to the agenda, then they discovered the right person. Therefore, in this case you can talk about playing your true will and no act of will is this bill. And one more thing, I'm very bothered by my colleague that you're in a couple of times, we can agree with you that the birth rate is dropping and of that, it's some common concern of ours to talk about it, but you're talking about child deficits, child deficits. Kids are people. When we talk about the deficit, we can only talk about things, we can even talk about the part of the man, the brain and the mind about the deficit, but the deficit of children in no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84395	Branko Hrg, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84396	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84397	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84398	Yes, no article should be thrown out but perhaps adoption of children should be added because love is important for children and all people. You've got to figure it out sometime. That's why all those who are talking today about this bill, many said this morning that there was still one progress in the HDZ discourse and their coalition, that it was much less. The truth is, there are milder words but in one way it may be a hidden form that corresponds to the modern way of expression but thus the danger of fear, from the other and from the different and from the stereotypes and from the prejudices and from homophobia did not stop. He didn't stop. In fact, he's got new ones, I'd say, because they're covered up and they're more dangerous. The fight against stereotypes, it lies in the source of every fear of another, of another, and of another. It's a struggle with itself. We are also bound by the laws and bonds as a country of the European Union and signatories of many conventions to persist precisely in disclosure and to propose and to pass such laws that will remove them, whether they are direct discrimination or some hidden, and there are many more. The same-sex community, this Final Proposal for a Life Partnership Act of the same sex from the very beginning, has been followed by a whole series of myths and prejudices that need to be calculated and which need to be accompanied by objective indicators. So one of these myths is that same-sex couples already have rights and they don't need any new rights. It is simply not true, and besides that it is contrary to our Constitution that guarantees the protection of family life. This community is one of the forms of family life. Whoever did this to us at the end of the day that we gave up, we used to have the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, as our eastern neighbours today call their own, so maybe the intensity is right at birth. We have defined ourselves precisely, I think we are even more advanced in many ways, and even in these status issues, we have chosen the Family Law because it was more important for us to protect the people who live together. So much for that. In addition, the European Court of Justice of 13 December 2013, which is the highest court of the European Union whose judgments are valid and binding by all Member States of the European Union, has made a decision requiring the state to enable the achievement of both the same labour and the rights of all couples in this community. Therefore, that is the answer to those who said that here we are not also talking about economic issues. We can certainly talk about this aspect. In addition, the other myth that follows this issue and the adoption of this law is that his opponents also imposed one prejudice that the LGBT community is seeking to impose gender ideology precisely on the other part of the citizens. But that's not true. These people only want equality. One of the following is the newer myths and stereotypes, as well as the wrong allegations, which has been mentioned here several times, elaborated, but is also responsible for it but I will repeat it again, I will say it again, is that in the referendum the citizens decided precisely that the same sex couples can't have that same status as the family. So now she's completely twisting her original, like she's forgetting what was the referendum issue. Also, these couples shouldn't raise children together at all, whether or not they're biological children of one of those partners. After all, it has been pointed out here and I will repeat that dozens of couples in Croatia have common children, and one of these stereotypes is that children raised in such communities have several different problems. However, it is difficult to engage in different research at all now, but most research suggests the opposite, that such children are given more attention, more time because they are more wanted and are therefore much more self-aware and open in society. But I'm saying it's one of those, I wouldn't even go for it, it's just one predominant opinion based on research. One of the prejudices is that children raised in such communities are threatened, as opponents of this law say, by the danger of becoming homosexuals themselves. So the question arises who raised those homosexuals or a very heterosexual couple in the marriage community. So let's not, every such profound analysis, not even have to be too deep, actually sees and discovers how many stereotypes it is, I'd say about some phrases, about exceptions that have no foothold and that can't withstand those fundamental laws of logic. Therefore, all those who deny the right to another for various reasons are found sooner or later in that trap. What I would like to point out in particular is that this cultural argument that also stands out here today is inconsistencies and it essentially denies human dignity. That argument assumes that this is a culture, that only some of them are able to shape our cultural values, and what about those of others. If a heterosexual couple is only allowed such a life together and under the blessing of the state, and we deny it to others essentially knowingly, we deliberately give up a significant value in their lives because we will all say that family life is very important for each individual and for the community. I say, in that way, we're destroying the principle of dignity of every person to choose ethical values instead of precisely subjecting himself to the values of others. We should essentially show with this bill that we are fighting for those rights, for the rights of others, for the rights of different and always and to that extent until they threaten, until these rights threaten other people's human rights. But even today, here we are and now we heard here before my debate that this law threatens others, because that message to others is that maybe there will be fewer children. So, he's threatening a marriage threat. So I'll tell you again. Do you believe so little in your own marriage, in marriage, in the community, in the marriage community that you fear such communities. That's a little weird. There's been a lot of talk here about love and happiness. I don't think any country, no law can bring a man no love, no happiness, but that many can make him unhappy, that's the truth. This is one law that allows people to live by their choice, and while we are already in love, there is also something to say that love is unconditional and that there is no right for either country or any particular group to stop it. There was a religious aspect here, and I would say all those who performed so sadly showed that their faith was weak and that they were small, that they were full of definition, and a little real concern for another man, because faith does not live another man, but because of the care of another man. We're not going to say everything that was said here this morning, what were papal messages recently. But perhaps to mention precisely the ecumenism that is just opening up dialogue with others, different, with other people, with other peoples, let alone with those of our loved ones. I'd like to mention the contract of the world. Okay. [[Thank you. You'll say it through replicas.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84399	Branko Hrg, come in. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84400	Thank you very much. Well, it's very short. So you said yourself we're going back to this referendum issue of course that the referendum said that same sex couples can't have the same family status and that's true. And the problem is that, through this law, this is exactly what they're trying to do. That's the problem. So it has already been said here today in discussions that this law and the way of marriage have the content of marriage, and it does not have to be based on a love relationship. Here, let's say that's the case, and that's what I'm saying again that it can get to the other part where they're really not people of homosexual commitment, but heterosexual and various others can be. Who knows more than anything in this world. So here you just have to admit it and say ok. We're passing the law. We don't like the decision the citizens made in the referendum, we've found a solution. We made a little slalom, went around, and now, contrary to the will of the citizens, we're going to pass the law that we intended to pass before it was a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84401	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84402	A colleague of yours has problems with most of them. You say most of them decided to hold a referendum and you respect it most of the time. Her will and the will of the majority were respected and she entered the Constitution. Now you object that most people here will vote something that doesn't suit you. And with what right do you deny the right of the majority? And that's exactly what I'm going to answer you for. It wasn't about content, it was about definition. That's right, we know. It's about the definition that marriage is a community of men and women. So what's the problem here now? How should individuals of the same sex live? Where? On the trees? In some ghettos? How are they supposed to live it? So come on, keep in touch with the international conventions, all those decisions that Peja Grbin was talking about. It's a fundamental human right. Even in our Constitution, the protection of family life is guaranteed. They're people who live together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84403	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84404	Thank you very much. Comrade Ingrid, I didn't mean to say what I am now, but I have to look back on this last sentence of yours. You say they live together, and right now in article three, there's a definition of informal life partnership. Did you see what defined everything and what an informal life partnership was. So that's not how you know as a lawyer to say they share a table and a bed. I can live hundreds of miles away in an informal life partnership. But I didn't want to talk about it, I wanted to talk about it, but that by definition of the constitutional life union or family and marriage of men and women, and this is called only, so one thing is changed – life partnership. And that's what a person of the same sex says. Nowhere, nowhere, and you've been particularly involved in your debate there's not a single word in this bill, nor has there been mentioned homosexuals, LGBT populations, etc. I don't know why you guys have an eye, I mean, what made you turn around when you write a nice life partnership of the same sex person. And our colleague Hrg tried to explain that there could be manipulation and it could be to say some deliberate life partnerships in order to exercise some of the rights of retirement, health, social, and that people are not at all, so what you're saying is LGBT or homosexual orientations of people. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, we might want to equate fully all the rights of all citizens in Croatia, and I am here with the final proposal of the law on the life partnership of the same or different sex, and then someone should live by that constitutional provision, and someone should live by this legal proposal and the person of the same and different sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84405	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84406	And everything that you colleagues have now pointed out as objections to this law that it is, which I was talking about, everything can also apply to marriage. Any right can be misused. But then it's... And it's proven to the court who has legal interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any right can be misused. And besides, you're saying nowhere to mention homosexuality and... That's right, that's right, where it's mentioned in the marriage community. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is anyone asking what a tendency he has, the importance of being a man and a woman and not being related? And what's the problem? Why would they have anything more to prove?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84407	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84408	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, I don't know why and what you saw HDZ being very homophoban is still, perhaps a correction, you said now it's secret to what it was in 2003 because it's not as fierce a criticism as it was back then. So you're the one who concludes that we've now come to illegal and that we're a secret homophobia. I don't know where you got that. We have made clear through the amendments our views on this issue. Maybe we shouldn't have said our opinions? I know you're a very democratic person and I don't see why you don't allow the possibility of us having a position, that we have an opinion that we should make public our amendments here on such a law? Well, it's not against the law, is it? And I believe it's not homophobic to say your opinion, to say your position, to make your amendments. Well, I guess that's why it was a quest for democracy, for a multiparty. You can deny or disrespect the results of the referendum, but Croatian citizens have made their position clear through the referendum. We all know what that attitude is, you know the safe mood of your people. You may not like it, you may not accept it, but you will get the result in the election. Then you'll get their opinion. And now we can demean him and manipulate him as we please. For the family of men and women, from that holy family to this day, we have made clear our position and made clear our opinion. We're advocating such a family, so I guess that's our right. Or citizens who expressed themselves in a referendum. You're giving lessons now on faith, and you know how it says there in the Bible, don't judge not to be judged. Let's let them judge the higher ones, and we're fighting for everyone to have their rights absolutely but let us also have our stand, have our own opinion that we want the population, that we want the children, that we want families with lots of children, that we want the future of Croatia and the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84409	Comrade Joseph Kregar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84410	Thank you, Madam Vice President. [[Intruder Antičević-Marinović: Sorry, I had an answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84411	Excuse me, buddy. Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84412	You see a colleague in contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Holy chair, signatories say, i.e. The Republic of Croatia and the Holy Sees shall establish that they are independent and independent in their order, obliging that mutual relations will fully respect this principle. Who still forbids you to live in a marriage? And anyone? And what was the attack on marriage? You're saying my freedom of speech is that I'm talking about which I'm a homophobe. I didn't say that you didn't have the right to speak, but if you deny the right to another, fundamental human right then how else do you qualify? And I didn't say that you're meeting somewhere now secretly, going underground, I was just saying that your remarks today are more dangerous than the discourses that you had for the first 10 years and over. And don't, in the end, be afraid of the people that you will come to power. You think there's anything left to steal?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84413	Comrade Craiger, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84414	Thank you again, Madam Chairman. I'd like a respected and respected colleague of mine to be somewhat dependent on what Mr. Sanader said because it seems to me that there has really been a major change in mood, not only in the assembly but in the public as well. What do I see? First of all, I see it in the fact that they actually stopped using attempts to turn this question into some kind of file, a cause for laughter or anecdotes. That's not the case anymore. I think we should really praise the fact that despite the existing differences, greater or smaller deviations in style, the obvious change that exists in society in terms of greater tolerance. In fact, tolerance is a very sensitive plant and should be nurtured. That's why I think it's the result and kind of general learning because a lot of people maybe 50 years have been under the impression of such a style of leadership, but now we're sitting here with some leadership and we should work a little bit on tolerance. That's why in the first part, I'm going to say a few words about what I consider to be the rest of the bad practice of that time. It's the fact that they actually try to use stereotypes, the files to make this law, and it's not often spoken of, but rather stereotypes, to raise questions. I'll only name some, and don't be offended. I'm going from what's left in my memory because it's closer. Fearing that this law is going to put us in a demographic crisis is not the right argument. We are in this crisis, and we didn't have this law. Not only that, if we compare ourselves with other European countries that have similar or more liberal laws like Norway, such as Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany and England astounding but they have a much better demographic picture and perspective than we do. It's not about fashion, it's not about us importing it, it's about getting a sense of freedom and diversity and wanting to suffer, respecting the differences that exist. Many of us thought differently, but yet that principle of freedom and tolerance has an advantage. Even in that otherwise quoted interview, so I would agree, most people think if someone wants to make such a relationship happen and it is up to us to put on some legal conditions that help in everyday life. There's also a poor dose, so I have to say, there's no fellow Reiner that I have great respect for, that's because there's something that's going to cause a complaint of conscience. That's not a good argument either. First of all, you should keep in mind that except for one case from 1968. ... against Sweden, the European Court of Human Rights has not complied with requests to object to the conscience unless it concerns Jehovah’s Witnesses and military service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only there, here it is before me and on April 24th this year a decision has been made on, that is colleague Lugaric and quoted, about rejecting the lawsuit of an officer in England, her picture is here, in which she asks that due to complaint of conscience she is allowed not to register the same-sex communities. Well, we would really fall into a situation or be treated like strange people in that regard. And thirdly, time is moving away, I'm just going to mention that here in a lot of conversations there have been examples of ways, let's say the conclusion of that community. It was said that it was all like marriage and it wasn't marriage, etc. And listen, I've been playing the case lately at a couple of weddings and I have to admit a lot of things I didn't like, not shooting, not shooting, not driving and dancing, and what's played, I didn't like it. But forgive me, it's not my choice, and I don't come there to impose my standards, but it's the desire of someone who makes a marriage to remember it or mark it the way he wants it. Are we going to write it like it's going to look like a cake or whether it's going to be played by the peoples, almost to each other, I'm a sugar man, so I'm going to ban the cake, and I don't have to explain for the peoples. And the last thing I'd like to point out here is the fact that the word compromise here has been attacked. So who's there, among whom is the compromise? Maybe the compromise is the wrong word, though I agree to different ones, but tolerance is the right word. This is about choosing those solutions that will not offend the feelings of a large number of people, a majority or a minority, I will not judge it, but the community is not called marriage because it is a way or a compromise that does not offend what some people consider most important. Here as well as another thing is often pointed out that such communities cannot be allowed to adopt children and are still little and afraid there, and paedophilia, and trade for children and people, be careful these are quite illogical arguments and do not serve well, scattered more I would say primitiveism and non-thinking about what phenomena it is. But I'd like to point out that thing here because I'd be happy to join those people, the three subsignors of the amendment that would allow such communities to adopt children. Some have also said that in a debate that is not signatories, why, because it is indeed, and I do not want to be pathetic, the hardest part is that when a child does not have a community in which he lives but lives in what the state gives him as a community, he offers as a community. I don't think it's dangerous because it doesn't seem to me that around us now there's going to be a number of communities that are just going to be looking for kids to adopt, it's not what I feel like to be a distraction here, and even if there's going to be a number of abuses, I'm afraid or it seems to me that there will be very few who will plead as lovers of the same sex to get some benefit. So more or less what we call benefits is realized in other ways much simpler and without complications. After all, getting up is not one painless and simple procedure. First of all, it involves deciding the child's interest. I'm not sure how much the facts of good or bad relationships play a role in these cases, but I would certainly be glad to evaluate it in the first place, whether partners are in good relationships and whether they give a chance for a good child education rather than just the fact of the gender diversity of those who adopt. In the rest, we also have adoptions from parents, or adoptors who are not in marriage communities. All this leads me to a rather optimistic conclusion, what is said as an objection could often be interpreted as supporting this law in particular, allow that word again, the compromise it offers. He doesn't call those communities marriage, it would be the opposite of the Constitution, and he doesn't ask, he doesn't give those communities the right to adopt children as I have now advocated. But it is necessary to take care of this dynamic of learning and change. I think we've learned a lot, we just need to get rid of our prejudices.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84415	Now we're going to the replicas. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84416	Thank you very much. So, you're almost so could say summed up today's entire debate. You have concluded, you have found that this debate has been tolerated, there have been shifts and it can be said that since 2003 we have simply learned all together a higher degree, or that we have reduced ourselves in society a degree of discrimination, and that we have increased the degree of tolerance. And it also resulted in a relatively tolerated debate. And I don't think anyone has the right to be angry at the debate and the different attitudes we have, because that debate was still constructive. There have been various suggestions and explanations, and everyone has a right to their stand without any anger from anyone in this country on the basis of this debate today. I am convinced that those affirmative attitudes that came from the Kukuriku coalition, but also those who were critical, critical of this law were constructive. They were not in the style of those previous ones we will not speak here attitudes, scissors, nor do I know what was all here, sketches in this Croatian Assembly when there was talk of this law. So I think you've expressed satisfaction with this debate. So, there shouldn't be any anger. Freedom and tolerance have actually contributed to this debate, and with some of the things you said, I, like Voltaier, disagree, but it is your right to say your position on adopting children, etc. I'm not that kind of attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84417	Thank you. Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84418	Thank you, Mr. Grubisic. I could say the same about you. We disagree, but that's why we'll tolerate our differences tolerably. In this sense, we will also suffer that some are different and therefore recognise their rights, not give them, admit them. They have a right to do that. But there's one thing I've missed to say and I'm taking the opportunity. This change was not simply over time, but because efforts existed to explain what the same-sex community meant, what it was about. We had a few years ago a problem with gay coming up with the concerts or what I'm gonna call those groups. It's getting smaller today. Today the atmosphere is more tolerated. No, it's not completely avoided what I don't want, and it's hate and expression of intolerance. But the media, associations, and even a personal example of many people, I think it has contributed to that tolerance, and then we could, despite the differences that exist in common here and conclude. I think it was here despite the differences of very constructive proposals, but they are not yet at this point perhaps something that can be realized as well as the proposal that I accept about adopting children may not be mature yet, but so we accept for what was here as a challenge to the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84419	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84420	... You've finished your speech with a message that everything will be easier if we get rid of prejudice. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] However, it is obvious that you are asking too much, for many people simply use these prejudices. They know they're not good, but they're kind of comfortable as old slippers. And I wouldn't underestimate it either, so all the rights of minorities we see at a certain stage are satisfactory. But they're like fragile plants, they need to be watered all the time because they're always in danger. You have well noticed that benefits that will eventually be achieved by such couples are minor. The greater the benefit of the state than their life together, because they owe us, we're just talking about the rights they're going to have. They are obliged to support each other, helping each other because otherwise, in such cases, if they had no one, they would have fallen on the burden of the state. And something else about objecting to your conscience. You've also quoted this case from abroad, but it's as if a professional soldier tells me that he doesn't allow me to carry a gun or a gun.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84421	Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84422	Thank you. I called in just in time. There's a part in your sentence that requires a comment. It's the fact that it's being manipulated here with the feelings of the majority and the minority and it says it's going to change. Of course he will, but we're deciding at this point and under the conditions that we're now given for good and good conscience. That's why we may not be unique. We'll have different arguments, but let's not worry about what happens after the next election. Or how many people want an answer this one or the one to some question. Well, that depends on the question. I think if you formulate the question in a certain way suggestively, for example, then you'll get such answers as what the question is and formulated. Is that why you guys adopt kids? I'm sorry, I'm not sure how I'd respond. It seems to me to be an inappropriate discriminatory question. What about women? I'd say no. And what does that mean? Little or nothing. Therefore, let us not deal with the majority and minorities, but let us deal with our judgments of reason and conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84423	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84424	My dear colleague, you said that surely this law is not anti-natal and that countries that have such laws have a better demographic picture. Thank you for saying this because it just confirms what I said in my debate that priorities should be looked at and what should be discussed in the Assembly before, which are more important things. I was just saying that I think that the economic situation and everything else in the country is much more difficult, and you've listed just all the economically developed countries. I believe that this increased birth rate in these economically developed countries is certainly the main cause of the developed economy, certainly not of these laws. And what I want to ask here, you said about lovers of the same sex and their entry into the community. You're an expert man with a real renaissance and good experience, so tell me, should this law be contained in itself to refer to people of homosexual commitment to make it clear or is this broad term good for those things we're talking about that there might still be manipulation in some other direction, meaning unrelated now to homosexual couples?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84425	The answer to the replica Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84426	I'm not talking about, recently, data on the demographic image of Croatia have been published, and data on other countries that show two things have been rarely used. First, that the birth rate in countries is low in material development. There's no problem with that in Afghanistan, Bangladesh. It is not that the birth rate is higher in Norway because you will likely be interested in the fact that 68% of live births in Norway are born outside the marriage community. This is one information that should be considered as the fact that culture affects these relations, and that the economy probably depends on working habits, entrepreneurship, austerity and good country. And your last question is whether or not this definition corresponds to something else, or whether it hides something, it is quite acceptable to me because it determines exactly what situations this law applies to and what situations this law will apply to. And what's important isn't going to apply to marriages, it's important because it's a compromise and it's one of the things that I think the ministry got when writing laws, and in that I think it just needs to be commended.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84427	Lucky Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84428	My colleague Kregar first offered me an initial thesis on tolerance as to how tolerance is translated as tolerance and tolerance, I would much prefer to talk about mutual respect and respect. In that, of course, everyone has the right to an opinion. But I ask the question, as an excellent lawyer, do we, as legislators, have today at the 21st century, the right to bring laws of passion, out of practice and prejudice, and not out of the principles of mind? The mind-achieving principle is freedom. Freedom consists of doing everything that does not harm others. This law, we've said several times, a few dozen times, does no harm to anyone. However, this law does not force anyone to do anything. And I'm going to confide in you, colleague Kregar, there's been a lot of talk about fear today and intimidation, it scares me when, despite respecting other people's opinions, someone is trying to eliminate the intimate needs and desires of others, and it reminds me of potassium, and I can't stand it in the 21st century. So I'd like you to teach us a little bit about it as an excellent lawyer and maybe remove some of the dilemmas that we witnessed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84429	The answer to the replica Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84430	... when it comes to the question and when it comes to the obvious getting along. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But let me help out for a little while then. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The European Convention on Encouragement of Tolerance and Combating Intolerance says that "tolerance is respect, acceptance, respect for the richness of the diversity of world civilizations, cultures, religions, different forms and ways of expression of human beings. It maintains knowledge, openness, communication, and freedom of mind, conscience, and belief. Tolerance is a harmony of diversity, tolerance is above all an active attitude to the recognition of universal human rights and fundamental freedoms for all" I will shorten that I am not reading the whole article, although it is not like legal text but rather a kind of appeal for tolerance. Indeed, you are right, tolerance involves respect, acceptance of some, and even the basic unwritten rules of common life in the community that mean being a state, not a Caliphate. The fear that is sometimes used as an argument you said quite correctly should not be a guide in the assessment of this law. I'm not afraid of whether or not the minority will support something or most of it because I'm aware and I feel like I'm defending the right thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84431	And Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84432	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleague, you spoke well, as toleranceal as a real teacher at the lecture and you can't be objected to, it's nice and nice to hear. But we are here, after all, representatives of the people who chose us to make some decisions on his behalf. And to us, only if we don't see it, you know that there's one saying "deaf shouting" or "blind winking" doesn't make sense, so on and so on. Our people send us some kind of message, we as his representatives are obliged to listen to it. Because I'm not here for myself or I'm here for my wife and my children or I don't know them. We represent the people who chose us, who sent us a message. That referendum we can totally deny, maybe... It was a wrong question, people didn't understand the question at all, our people were half-written he knew nothing, he understood nothing at all, so they misunderstood it, so they made some kind of decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have to imagine that, we live and we represent, this side in a certain way, we represent, that our ideal is a happy family. We believe that all this society, good society can be built on a happy and quality family, a family with lots of children. And now if that's prejudice, if it's a sin, if it's homophobic, forgive me, it's obvious that ours, too, is one great majority of our people thinking that way. Our people didn't say kill the same-sex ones but you're telling us about the feelings of children here, so you know there's a lot of kids who are poor and unsettled and so, if they were adopted, this same-sex community would be happy. But there are a lot of families who are looking for heterosexuals who are looking for the adoption of children, they have a lot of problems getting a child. So let's not do that... Now we can appeal to children's rights, which is justified, no one asks them where they are and what they are and how they are but I don't believe that you and many in this House would want your child to be gay and not have grandchildren, that I don't know you have, that your child has such a family, but well that's your right I don't touch it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I mean, let's let it go and see what the people think. I agree that we can have different opinions from him, but we represent them here and not ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84433	Thank you very much. Time's up. The answer to the replica Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84434	I thank you, Mr. Sanader, and I will try to follow everything you've asked as a question. First of all, we have been chosen according to a specific programme, and therefore we have received trust and are responsible for what we have claimed to be our attitudes, so much we represent the opinion of the people. However, we here are not just representatives of what we estimate to be the opinion of the people. In our conscience, we must also be something that is a role model, we know what the situation is, which is a role model for people's behavior. And every step in this regard is welcome and I don't like it when anything is considered in these discussions by accusing, insulting, and should be avoided of course. But you have to fight for your opinions and I respect your attitude. Of course, now I'm just going to add this child-related thing. I am the father of many children and grandchildren but I would not say that I would be ashamed or that I would suffer for it if one of them told me father or grandfather I love a same-sex partner. But I think we have to view it as something that happens but it's nothing I'm going to judge. Before today's session started, that's why I'm commenting on this, too. And I said that many years ago the truth is because my son is already pretty big that someone asked me the same question from a friend and what would you like to have... And say I'm gay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'd ask him... And what a student you are because I think it's more important for a child. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, I'm sorry about all those people, partners or communities who want to adopt a child and I can't get a chance to do that. I find that a big problem, but it's not affected by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84435	Thank you. And colleague Mile Horvat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84436	I'd like to thank my colleague and colleagues. Here I am, on behalf of the club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, will speak individually about this whole, day-long debate. We're probably all pretty tired already. And I'd prefer to, of course, respect this seriousness of this subject and we need to polymize on these things because it's someone's life and I respect it. But it would also be good if we had discussed this seriously bile, positively, and some of the topics that are indirectly related to this, such as the most innovative policy in the Republic of Croatia, because I have here information that says that in 2012, 10,000 marriages were made and 3,000 were divorced. 2013 9800 made and 3200 divorced marriages. We should also answer the questions of young people why young people are finding it increasingly difficult to decide on marriage, marriage, and why men’s children have the courage to become parents and to take the burden of responsibility for raising their family today. The question should be answered in a serious discussion about why these young people are leaving. The data suggests that every year, in some demographic regression in Croatia, we are left without two white monasterys, this is my town in Baranja, so without two white monasterys each year, these are serious issues that we should discuss equally seriously and with equal interest and discuss as we discussed today. But well, we can see about this topic that the debate has polarized between the world-wide issue and some people have tried, some colleagues have tried to talk about the nomotechnical aspect of the legal text itself. I'm not going to pollomize with the world's things, so I have my own opinion on it, so I recognize the rights of everyone to be different and different. And we're on behalf of the club, and that's our party's position, and I believe my colleagues at the National Minority Club said that we respect the wishes and needs of all, especially people who have a different sexual orientation because, by their very nature, they're a little different from most, that they have the right to plan a life together. And is this the best form we're going to define today, and tomorrow we're going to accept, we're going to talk about it. What's our reality in my opinion is that this sexuality, this kind of sexuality that is today the subject of debate, is present today all around us and it's no longer new today. In the world, it's already a well-established thing, and if we don't settle this thing today, we'll probably have that job waiting for us tomorrow. We'll probably have to put that on the agenda soon enough. And that's why I think it's very opportunistic that we do it today, that we don't waste any time and then try to shape some legal text that will be acceptable to everyone. I also think that it will come very quickly to the agenda of the debate on some other sociological phenomena that we will also worldly, different world-wide approaches to discuss, such as easy drugs, as the world has begun to discuss prostitution, etc., etc. It will also be an interesting topic that we will need to discuss very quickly. Obviously, this decade has recently brought some new topics to our premises for discussion. I'll just get some information. We had an old law, i.e. the existing 2003 Law on Same-Sex Communities, and the data say that no same-sex community has officially been established according to this legal solution to date. Therefore, it is not to be expected and should not be afraid of us that this new legal solution will result in some kind of boom, the expansion of that kind of marriage. No, it's just those cases that decide to simplify their lives and sort out their lives in some way. The data say that in Europe, the adoption we have talked so much about is a privilege only in countries such as Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and the South is, of course, an exception, which is Spain which has surprised us in its own time, but it is a fact. It is also a fact that out of 19 European Union countries have detailedly regulated the issue of same-sex communities 19 of them, and 12 of them are not. Unfortunately, that's where we're involved. So now we are trying to get out of this circle of 12 countries that did not deal with the issue. As a legalist, I think all the social relations that exist and that appear should be regulated by law. That's why I think this law should be passed. This law is good for me, it's good for me, there are three key things that should be apostrophe. It's the way a community is arranged, putting a sign of equality between marriages of same-sex communities and marriages that exist, so which is common. We also see that the mechanisms for making that marriage are exactly the same, which I think is good. There are legal assumptions that this same-sex community would be valid under the law. We see that it is very important that life partnership can't make people under the age of 18, which is quite all right, I can't even make it up to people who are incompetent to reason. It is also very important in Article 10 to say who cannot conclude a life partnership, and these are blood relatives in a flat line and a sideline line up to the 4th degree. It's basic stuff and it's a good thing it's embedded into this legal framework. Names are taken, it's more freedom individual to not reach into. The place of conclusion of the life partnership was the subject of controversy. Here it is said to do so in a solemn manner in front of a parent or a state official in the official room. That's the way it should be, why deny people that part of the pleasure, but the problem is, I don't know if you know it, but every time a queen goes out, it costs 6,000 kuna. It doesn't say that here, but it's life, so it's not a cheap thing at all, especially for young people who move into life. And I don't see why dating queens would cost 6,000 kunas. Also, the key thing here is a child-related relationship. Here it's about adoption, it's polemized, and it's said that there's going to be adoption here, so on. Adoptions. I don't think it's an adaptation, not even a hidden adaptation, this is simply about the custody of one of the children who brings parents into that same-sex community. So a biological parent brings his child into that community and it is perfectly natural and logical to establish an institute of care for that child, even after his death. It's quite logical and quite humane and sociologically acceptable category. Otherwise, it's like adopting a special institute that's specifically regulated by law and there's no surprise there. We can change it and tell who can go into the adaptation, who can't go into the adaptation. In history, the adaptation had different characters, sometimes intended to pass on the fatherhood or extension of the inheritance and family today, a more humane element of that adoption, or adoption, which is primarily a concern for unsettled children, thus giving parental care to those unsupervised children. And that's the essence of things, and if we put it that way, then it doesn't have to be a problem even through this legal solution. You have said here access to public services, a ban on discrimination is a third element that I consider very important at the time of adapting to this legal text. You said here that unfavorable treatment based on a life partnership was a form of discrimination and he was banned. I would add here that here in the transitional final provisions and ban on sanctioning, materially sanctioning, then it has its purpose because you cannot achieve a certain degree of social hygiene related to what we are now doing unless we sanction it. We see what happens in sports stadiums, what kind of behavior is it when such behaviors that are socially unacceptable are not sanctioned. So, in order for this thing to have its full effect, we need to sanction what we think discrimination is about marriage to the same sex. So we accept this law, we accept the institution of a community of the same sex, but what, a sentence alone, what is not acceptable to us and that we are not advocates, we think that the manifestation of some mass sexuality on the streets should not happen after the adoption of this law and we think that it is socially unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84437	Thank you very much. Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84438	Thank you, dear President, Vice President, I'm sorry. Comrade Horvath, you said that today we have been discussing a whole day on a topic that does not fall into the first order of important topics. I think this is the most important topic in one society and it deserves to be discussed all day long, if necessary, because it is about freedom, it is about the freedom and right of every citizen and every individual to consume constitutional rights. When you said it was mostly about sexuality or light-headed things, I think it was mostly about prejudice. However, prejudice simply cannot be changed. We need to change the circumstances in which prejudices arise, and this law does just that. Slowly, but surely I believe that we will come to the same rights that all free citizens in Europe enjoy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84439	Mile Horvat, response to replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84440	I thank my dear colleague, I did not say that this law does not fall into the first order of interest or the first order of important topics, I said that we have been discussing it all day today and what should be, of course, this topic deserves that time, but I also said that I would be pleased if we discussed these other topics in the same way with the same interest that I consider equally important and perhaps even more important, now I say, perhaps even more important than this topic that we have devoted to all day today, but that I am not repeating what I said now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84441	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84442	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, you mentioned the former law of 2003 and found that there was no marriage of that kind. Now, we have a proposal for a new law. And I am convinced that there will be no stampede if by chance this law is adopted in the parliamentary procedure because people today are very difficult to get married, a classical marriage, so heterosexual, male and female because it is a material situation and when people think about this material situation at this stage or cycle of recession and what it is set up, so that the preconditions for the consumption of such a life partnership, many will think very, very deeply about whether it will enter into such a community. Why didn't such same-sex marriages occur in these 10, 11 years as there is a Law on Same-Sex Marriages in the Republic of Croatia? So, just removing prejudice, not those where there is prejudice towards the LGBT population, but prejudice and the LGBT population, only strong love and a desire for happiness can lead to the destruction of all these obstacles that lay down laws to achieve this kind of life partnership. And finally, when we talk about children, then I have to mention article 42, where he says, the right to have personal relations, so they have a mutual child and a life partner if he lived with a child for a long time, and during that time he took care of the child or had developed an emotional relationship with him. How is an emotional relationship measured?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84443	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat. Hey, buddy, time's up. You'll clear that up later with your colleague. [[Invadica Grubišić: Time has elapsed, and how long it takes someone to live with someone, a child to decide...]] The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84444	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, you are, I said, according to the 2003 records, to this day under the current law, no official or confirmed creation of any community of such a kind, same-sex community has been recorded. Obviously it was proof that the law was... that according to that model legally it couldn't even be done. So we are now discussing this new model, this new law that will allow the same-sex communities to set up their community and make it even with all the formal legal social, social and all the other effects of civil or church marriage. Therefore, this law is obvious, this information says that today we are on the right track when we try and try to change the existing regulatory framework and bring this new legal framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84445	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Tuesday. We will move on to the Final Proposal for a Life Partnership Act for the same sex. Do you want the president taken over?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84447	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We continue with the same dynamics. The debate on the text of the law is over. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. "1. Third reading will be carried out on the final proposal for a law on the life partnership of persons of the same sex. 2. Any objections to the proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please make your statement on this proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion has not been accepted, it has not been adopted, because it was voted 24 in favour and 81 in favour of it. The government submitted an amendment after a set Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am putting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 24 votes against have been accepted to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of the Prime Minister's Government of the Honorable Arsen Bauk to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84448	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that several articles of the law enter into force on 1 September to comply with the new Family Law on the basis of the Constitutional Court report the other day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84449	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement to the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted by most votes, 82 votes in favour and 21 abstentions. It became an integral part of the final bill. We now have amendments to the HDZ Representatives Club. We're going to Amendment number one, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84450	Amendment No 1. proposes to delete the words "the same sex" in the name of the law and in Article 1. The government doesn't accept the amendment. The aim of the law is to ensure equal access to all rights, privileges and obligations necessary for the successful construction of a family life together, based on their feelings, emotional intimacy and commitment. The rights, privileges and obligations provided by law to the same sex communities of the heterosexual family community are already enjoyed by those rights, privileges and obligations through the institutions of marriage and the extramarital community. The amendment would therefore double the protection that heterosexual couples enjoy through marriage and extramarital institutions on the one hand while reducing the value of recognising equal dignity of same-sex communities as a community of family life with their specific social development and their own interests. Given that under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure equal respect, dignity of same-sex communities. Any reduction in that recognition is not in line with its fundamental objective. Moreover, if this amendment were to be accepted, the legislator would have to accept its logic in which the constitutional definition of marriage is a segregation based on sex, or sexual orientation. In other words, the amendment states that the constitutional definition of marriage recalls the values set out in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has explicitly denied the Constitutional Court in its decision on the National referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84451	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Croatian Democratic Community Vice-President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84452	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This proposed restriction and allocation of rights exclusively to persons of the same sex is unconstitutional and is contrary to the principle of gender equality. In fact, bringing the life partnership of the same sex into the family life community of two registered persons of the same sex is contrary to the principle of gender neutrality of the term referred to in Article 5, which provides that all terms in the law cover both male and female alike. In addition, in Article 10(1), it is saidly impossible for all persons of the same sex to rule out blood relatives in a flat line and in a lateral to fourth degree. Since it is not stated in the law that it is a condition, that the persons involved and who enter the community must declare that they are also sexual orientations that are wrong, because they would be affected by their intimacy. But why the segregation? If by definition it's not about communities according to sexual orientation, then there's really no danger of an incest sequence of what we're proposing and no reason for such a ban. Why do you have to pretend it's something else than it really is? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84453	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number one. A party of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84454	It is proposed to delete the word "family" in Article 2. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Stable emotional communities are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms as equivalent forms of family life. The European Court of Human Rights, whose practice is based and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, in a clear way, has determined the obligation of the Member States of the Convention to ensure, through their legal regulations, the equal dignity of same-sex communities as an equally valuable form of family life. By adopting the amendments, the Republic of Croatia would be brought into a situation where, in regulatory areas which are within the competence of the EU, it would certainly violate the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, which, under its legal power, is equated with the constitutional status of the founding Treaty on European Union, which explicitly states that the right to establish a family is guaranteed in accordance with national laws provided that a Member State respects the principle of equality by which any discrimination based on sex, race, skin colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion belongs to a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation in Article 21. Command.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84455	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ Vice-President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I am, the minister said that this is left to the national legislation, so no one requires that this is how it has to be done. But when we talk about adjectives, it means something that belongs to the family. A meaningful and etymological directory of the family comes from verbs to dwell, so to live in a place, to live, to stay together, etc. Since this bill does not determine that members of the life partnership should agree to determine the place of residence and the family home or apartment where they will live as the family law obliges them, so they do not have to have a common residence or a family home or a common household, they do not have to live together at all, they do not have to stay at the same address as some other laws define 183 days a year in the General Tax Code, etc., then this is actually pointless. So the fact is, it's not about something that's trying to put in here, and then when you look at it later, you don't actually mention it at all. So we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84457	Please state the amendment No. 2. The HDZ representative club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3rd, Your Honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84458	The amendment proposes to delete Articles 3 and 4 which discuss the informal life partnership. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Citizens and citizens of heterosexual orientation have been able to successfully build their family life through an institution of marriage that occurs before a state body in a formally prescribed procedure as well as an institution of an extramarital community as a real form that comes from satisfying certain life facts such as the consent and will of persons and the longevity of their life together rather than satisfying the procedural form. The same choice between a more formal form and a form in which the formal role of the state is less guaranteed to citizens and citizens of the same-sex sexual orientation. This meets the constitutional obligation of equal respect for all citizens and citizens regardless of their differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84459	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the HDZ amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84460	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So if the goal was this law, and I believe it is, to protect the life partnership of same-sex people, then this is what introduces so-called. The "unformal" life partnership, whatever that means, actually merits exactly what is said to be protected. So it's exactly the opposite of what is said to be achieved. Because the idea of an informal life partnership is, in fact, jeopardizing legal certainty and it is the opposite of the purpose of this law that should be encouraged to register life partners and then from that pump certain rights. In fact, it is impossible to determine what makes this community if it is informal, if it is not prescribed that it is a resident, emotional, residential, economical anything, it is not exclusive, therefore, it can be in several informal life partnerships simultaneously following this law, therefore in polygamy or polyandria, and it is quite the opposite of the fundamental idea which is claimed to represent this law. There is also no such thing as an informal life partnership in any similar law in the world. Therefore, if this relationship is sincerely to be regulated, then life partners should be encouraged to register, enabling them not to encourage them to remain unregistered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84461	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment No. 3. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 4th, Your Honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84462	The Government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation as for Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84463	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, of course, my argument will be similar to that of Amendment No. 2. Because the concept of family meaning etemologically meaningful and contentally belongs to a family. However, in order to gain rights, and the purpose of this law is to give certain rights must also be prescribed. So, if it wasn't intended to be ordered that informal life partners must have the same residence, residence, family house, apartment, home, so they don't have to live together, I stress together what can it be called family? In addition, family relations are, in fact, the community of any family life is governed by family life, not this law. And the team is more obvious and the proponent of this is aware because as many as 12 times in this law is referred to a special law governing family relations, and then it is unclear why here is insisted in the informal community again on it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84465	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 4. HDZ in the Croatian Parliament that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 5th of the same club, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84466	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84467	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 6. also the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84468	The amendment proposes that the words of relations related to children should be deleted in Article 3(3). The proposal is therefore not accepted. The law recognises the social fact that children live and grow up in the same sex communities both at present and in the future. Denying the same sex communities is an opportunity to care effectively about the welfare of children living and growing up in such family communities as discrimination and children based on the sexual orientation of their parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84469	Amendment holder, respected representative on behalf of the club, Željko Reiner Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84470	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The children are not at all subject to the regulation of this law, as shown in Article 1 of the final proposal. Children are neither a matter nor a subject of ownership nor property, they are not property, they are not in legal traffic, so they cannot be acquired either personal or property rights. There is, of course, law, the subject of regulation of measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child, adoption, custody, maintenance, mandatory counselling, family mediation, procedures regarding family relations and custody, and it is called Family Law. Therefore, the matter of this law is related to children and therefore cannot be determined by this law. In addition, the adjustment of child-related relationships is contrary to Article 62. The Constitution and a whole series of other regulations because children cannot be protected as they are allegedly trying to do with this law, but this law actually empowers life partners to be able to rule them out from their parents, which is the opposite of the Constitution again. Therefore, I request a vote on this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84471	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. Six. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 7th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84472	The amendment proposes to prescribe the right to appeal to a parent, a judge, a judicial adviser, a lawyer, a public notary, an expert worker in social care and others who should carry out or participate in the conduct of an official action in the conduct of proceedings under this law. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Those officials and judicial officials shall perform their duties in front of the public authority or public authority officer who has been legally assigned to them by the Republic of Croatia. Given that they are performing their professional duties in front of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution obliges them to treat all citizens with equal due respect, i.e. to ensure equal quality of public service to all citizens and citizens regardless of their differences and whether their worldview is in line with their personal world-wide beliefs. Moreover, in its judgments, Ladeila and Max Ferlin v United Kingdom, namely Eneida and Caplin v United Kingdom, objected to the conscience of civil servants in a democratic legal order based on the principle of equal due respect of the state authority towards all citizens and citizens regardless of their sex or sexual orientation. The European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that any form of appeal to the conscience of a civil servant does not constitute his right protected by the Convention, i.e. to deny access to public service based on the sexual orientation of a person constitutes discrimination against the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Furthermore, since 1 July 2014, in procedures implementing EU law, civil servants and judicial officials are no longer solely responsible for the Croatian legal order but is also a legal order of the EU. By allowing this kind of complaint to the conscience of the proposed amendment, the Republic of Croatia would direct the conflict with the EU Treaty, the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU which explicitly prohibits the Republic of Croatia, as set out in the HaY Court of Justice of the European Union, to restrict access to any public service which achieves an EU law or obligation on the basis of the fact that a person is located in the same-sex family community. If the proposed amendment were accepted, this would be the reason for the European Commission's action against the Republic of Croatia before the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84473	On behalf of the applicant for amendments to the HDZ Club, the Honored Vice-President of the House of Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, the reasoning does not stand at all because there is enough in Croatia, if we are talking about the parent, the motherettes who agree entirely with this law so that no rights would be denied. However, withholding the general rights to objecting to the conscience, the area of insufferableness is now opening up. It is an attack on human dignity, and the personal integrity of those who, because of their beliefs, whether religious or secular, do not agree with such laws and measures, and who would want to carry out their work knowingly and responsibly, in which they are committed, but are driven to something contrary to their conscience. I note that this is a right, as we all know in Croatia, recognised by both authorised representatives, and soldiers, and health and health care professionals in artificial insemination, doctors, dentists, nurses and the professional code also recognises it to lawyers, midwives and pharmacists. So this falls under fundamental human rights and freedoms, the right to freedom of conscience. Therefore, the fact that the Constitution says that this right must not be restricted, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, such as in Articles 40 and 17. The constitution defines it as simply unreasonable to restrict the right to appeal of conscience to those involved in the implementation of this law. It is quite certain, I will repeat once again that there are enough citizens who agree with the world's worldview of this law in matters of the rights of homosexual couples, and in practice, without difficulty, could ensure the implementation of this law as can be ensured, and as is ensured by the implementation of the work on issues of abortion, in matters of medical help insemination. Where the analogue ethical questions occur, and it was never limited to anyone. Therefore, enabling the state's conscience would only contribute to the reduction of division in society, and I'm afraid that this will create another problem. In doing so, I must say that the international treaty and the Constitution guarantee the freedom of conscience, so one cannot force a man to work against his conscience. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84475	Thank you very much. And the explanation of the government and your esteemed colleagues is time-consuming for this. I would like to make a statement on Amendment 7 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 8 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84476	Amendment number 8, was this, now should be number nine, I think, on Article 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84477	On amendment nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84478	Amendment No 9, therefore it is proposed to delete Article 29(3). The Government does not accept the amendment in relation to the claim that the fact that a child lives in a specific community or is not verifiable is sufficient to indicate that a concrete statement of termination would not be valid in the event that the partners falsely presented the fact that such non-compliance with the law would constitute a breach of the principle of child welfare which would withdraw appropriate legal sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84479	On behalf of the applicant, amendments to the esteemed Vice-President of the House of Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84480	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, giving an agreed declaration of termination or termination of a life partnership "on condition that a minor child does not live in the life community, simply cannot be checked", it is simply untrustworthy and it does not provide a minimum of legal certainty that a minor does not really live in such a community of life, especially when it is not defined what makes the life union, whether it is a common household, whether it is a home, whether it is a residence, whether it is a residence, whether it is a residence, etc. Therefore, the Institute does not guarantee even the minimum concern that the state is obliged to provide children with a series of rules. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84481	Please state the amendment number 9 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 10 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84482	Amendment No 10 The Government does not accept with the same explanation as Amendment No 2, so Article 37, paragraph 2 is required to delete the word family...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84483	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84484	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So again, I'm going to point out that family relations are being governed by the Family Law, and not by this law, and that's what the promoter is obviously aware of, because he's even 12 times referring to a special law that regulates family relations. Since the law does not prescribe a common residence, a home, or anything, we believe that this should be deleted for the same reasons that we have stated earlier in detail. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84485	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to come forward with an amendment number 10 that the government does not accept. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 11 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84486	The amendment proposes erasing an item that suggests that life partners have equal procedural rights and status in all judicial and administrative proceedings as well as spouses. The government does not accept the amendment with reason, the aim of the law is to ensure equal access to all rights, privileges and obligations necessary for the successful construction of a family life together, based on their feelings of emotional intimacy and commitment. Given that under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to ensure equal respect and dignity for same-sex communities, the restriction of access to these rights is not in line with its fundamental objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84487	An indication of the Honorable Vice President of the House on behalf of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84488	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the promoter just mentioned something that unfortunately doesn't stand in the law, about the emotional community, we've objected to what's just been thrown out, and unfortunately it's not mentioned in this law at all. However, the key thing of this amendment is that this item is not at all part of the subject matter of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, thus equating procedural measures and... the position of life partnerships in all judicial and administrative proceedings, is not in part the legal effect of the life partnership if life partnership and marriage are two different institutes. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84489	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number 11 that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 12 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84490	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84491	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84492	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the reason is ours exactly the same. This item is not at all part of the subject matter of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, and if life partnership and marriage are two different institutes, then it does not apply at all. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84493	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment 12, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 13 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84494	The amendment proposes erasing articles 40-49. The government doesn't accept the amendment. The law recognises the social fact that children live and grow up in the same sex communities both at this time and in the future. Denying the same sex communities is an opportunity to care effectively about the welfare of children living and growing up in such family communities as discrimination and children based on the sexual orientation of their parents. By adopting amendments, the legislature would violate the principle of equal due respect for all its citizens referred to in Article 1. The Constitution, and in this case, especially children. Principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14 The Constitution, the Constitutional Obligation of Special Care of the Republic of Croatia for children prescribed in Article 63. The Constitution, the constitutional right of parents to exercise their constitutionally prescribed obligation to raise, maintain and educate children, or the constitutional obligation to ensure that the child is fully and coherent in the development of his personality prescribed in Article 64. The Constitution, the prohibition of discrimination against a child in respect of the right to a coherent family life prescribed by Articles 8 and 14. European Conventions on Human Rights and Freedoms and the rights of children to the protection and care necessary for their well-being provided for in Article 24. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84495	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84496	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, it is not disputed to have children in such communities, but children are not subject to the regulation of this law, they cannot be subjected to the legal effects of the life partnership. There's a special law that regulates it, it's family law, so the matter of this law cannot be regulated by the matter of this law. In addition, the arrangement of child - related relationships is contrary to Article 62. The Constitution, Article 64, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, and we stress that a child is not a thing, it is neither a property nor property, it cannot be acquired personal property rights, hence, a life partnership, either formally, or informally cannot guarantee the family home, protection of the right to housing, the right to care and everything else guaranteed by the Family Law because it is all defined in the Family Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84497	Are you asking for a vote? I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 13 that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 14 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84498	The Government does not accept amendments with the same explanation as for Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84499	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84500	Thank you very much. Although this has been easily rejected, it is not exactly the same because in the Family Law, both the one now in force since 2003 and the one proposed clearly states that a parent cannot give up parental care or the right to parental care. Therefore, in accordance with Article 40(1), paragraph 1 of this Law would be given to the life partnership of the right to receive parental care which the parent is married to under the provisions of the Family Law, unless she adopted a child. Therefore, this is also not technically insufficient because the literal interpretation could conclude that a parent is free to give up to the age of his or her remaining parents the parental care of a child in part or in full because there is no obligation to renew such a statement within any period. Therefore, this could be carried out by a private act signed by a parent without any approval by the judicial authority or by the authorities of the state administration relevant for matters of social care, which is contrary to the principles of governing the care of children under the Family Law. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84501	I'm asking you to come forward with an amendment number 14 that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 15 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84502	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The amendment proposes an additional paragraph 2 in Article 43, which reads as a person in a life partnership or an informal life partnership, cannot adopt a child in terms of the provisions of a special law governing family relations. The family law clearly determines who the Republic of Croatia is in accordance with Article 63. The constitution allowed access to the adoption institute. According to Article 185. Family law can be adopted by marriage mates, single mates, and single mates if the other is a single or single parent or adoptor of a child, one mate with the consent of another mate, and the single person who is not married. So life partnership does not have the right to adopt children, it is a democratic compromise that is also based on the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84503	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84504	Your Honor, Mr. President. If it were true what the Honorable Minister is saying, then he would accept this amendment. Because if it is true that there is no adoption in such communities, then he would accept the amendment, but we argue that it is not true because even though the prime minister and a series of ministers have claimed that it will not be allowed to adopt the order of this law, in fact, a whole series of articles allow it. And that is why we have proposed this amendment in order to ensure that the government claims that it will be really implemented. Now the government rejects it for giving us the right to think that it wants to play what's promised. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84505	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment number 15, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 16 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84506	The Government does not accept Amendment 16 with the same explanation as Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84507	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84508	Your Honor, Mr. President. That's the article 51, right? Which is why we have also proposed such an amendment because we hold that it would be reasonable to leave the life partners with the right to determine by mutual agreement whether they want to have such mutual property relations as their spouses have, following the provisions of the Family Law, or what partners have following the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations or in some different specially arranged manner that would suit their specific needs. That's why we felt it was reasonable to change this way and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84509	I'd like to make a statement about amendment number 16 that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Please, colleagues on the side are competing with us, so if they continue the conference, we'll stop or they'll stop so we can work. This concentration is not possible. Amendment number 17 of the respected ministers of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84510	The Government does not accept amendments with the same explanation as Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84511	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84512	The point was, of course, to nomtechnically regulate the amendment of the 16th amendment, but as the government rejected it, of course, and it loses the purpose of the whole thing. But I'm asking for a vote on this according to what we said under Article 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84513	Of course. I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number 17 that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 18 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84514	The proposal is to delete from the law the right to inherit the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept an amendment with the same explanation as for Amendment 11 with the addition that the possibility of inheriting one another is of exceptional importance for the successful building of a common family life of two persons regardless of their sexual orientation. The amendment would deny this possibility to same-sex couples with a clear intention of challenging the social value and dignity of their family community. This is contrary to the principle of equal due respect laid down in Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall ensure the constitutional guarantee and equality before the law of Article 16 and oblige the Republic of Croatia to protect all forms of family life equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84515	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84516	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The meaning of this amendment was in no way to dispute exactly what the honourable minister said, though. However, the matter of succession, the right to inherit, the rules by which the court, the bodies of the authorised persons act in hereditary matters are governed by the Law of Inheritance, he is a lex specialis and cannot be entangled by other laws in his matter. Therefore, since this article is not at all part of the scope of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, this article and a whole series of next articles to which our amendments are concerned will only complicate the life of the persons to whom this law applies, create confusion in the legal system and do exactly the opposite of what the Proposer claims, which is to improve the quality of life, make things easier for the persons in such a life partnership. Therefore, we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84517	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number 18 that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 19 of the same club representative. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84518	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84519	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84520	Thank you very much. And the explanation is similar to that of the previous one. Therefore, property tax is governed by the Real Estate Tax Act, which is lex specialis and cannot be affected by any other law. I must mention, we live in a period where real estate tax is constantly claimed to be introduced. This will release something that will be passed by other laws, and what law will it be worth? Legal uncertainty and confusion will be restored. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84521	Please state the amendment No. 19 that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 20 respected ministers of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84522	Thank you, Mr. President. The government doesn't accept the amendment. The provision of the Law refers to Article 60 of the constitutional obligation of equal treatment laid down in Article 3 and Article 14 of the Law. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you that the legal basis for the adoption of this Law is found in Article 83 paragraph of the Constitution and according to the Constitution of a certain hierarchy of the law and this is an organic law within the legal power above the law laid down in Article 82. The Constitution. Since a number of amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives are heading towards certain things being set out by specific laws, it turns out that we should have proposed amendments to 20 and some laws. I believe that in the future when these laws are amended and put into those laws, but for now, social circumstances are such that it is better that everything is in one law and that is why we do not accept this amendment, and with a similar explanation, I will refer to some other amendments until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84523	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Vice-President of the House of Honored Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84524	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The prohibition of amendments to the special laws can only be imposed by the Constitution, not by ordinary law which is not a hierarchical authority of the Constitution. So, like again, we will refer to ourselves at later points of the law and our amendments exactly what the Honored Minister said is the reason against it because one law cannot dictate something that has been resolved in a whole series of other laws that are also organic laws. So which one will be used in real life? There will be confusion, disorder will be created, and life will be difficult for those who are said to want to benefit from this law. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84525	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 20 that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 21st club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84526	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84527	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84528	Your Honor, Mr. President. The extended insurance matter in pension insurance is governed by Article 18. The law on pension insurance which is lex specialis has no need to resolve it in this Act at all. And once again, I will stress that if we wanted for every vulnerabilious, vulnerable group in this society to make such a law that would fully regulate all their lives we would destroy the legal system of the state of Croatia. Because indeed a whole series of vulnerable groups have a right, there are needs, there is a feeling if you want and a threat, and yet we do not do it in such a way that we do not violate the legal order of the Croatian state. I'm saying this will do and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84529	Please state the amendment No. The 21st government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 22nd of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84530	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84531	Thank you very much. Vice President of the House, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84532	Mr. President. A ban on amending special laws can be imposed only by the Constitution and not by ordinary law. And the matter of compulsory retirement insurance is regulated by the Pension Insurance Act, which is lex specialis and cannot be penetrated into its matter. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84533	Please state the amendment No. 22 that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 23rd of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84534	Article 65 is not accepted by the same reasoning as the amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84535	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84536	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat, the ban on amendments to specific laws must only be imposed by the Constitution, not by ordinary law, and the matter of social care has already been regulated by the Social Care Act, which is lex specialis and must not be infiltrated by other laws in its matter. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84537	Please state the amendment No. 23 that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 24th of the same club, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84538	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84539	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84540	I again draw attention that matter consenting to medical procedures is governed by the Health Protection Act which is lex specialis and cannot be penetrated into its matter. However, the matter is much, much broader and much more serious when it comes to this article of the Law and I draw everyone's attention to the opening of very deadly possibilities in the application of this Law by this principle. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84541	Please state the amendment No. 24 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. The 25th Honored Ministers of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84542	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84543	Please, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So these can't be so easy to resolve because Article 68 is contrary to the provisions of a special law in which it encroachs because guaranteeing the same rights of life partnership as the marriage community, or by prohibiting more favourable treatment against the life partnership, but by providing the marriage community with no personal rights in the health insurance of life partnerships, but in fact by repealing the provisions of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, because allowing artificial insemination to life partners is contrary to the provisions of the applicable law. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84545	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment number 25, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 26 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84546	It's unacceptable. The provisions of the law therefore implement the constitutional obligation of equal treatment laid down in Articles 3 and 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of a sexual orientation or the fact that a person is located in a stable same-sex emotional community is explicitly prescribed by Council Directive 2000/78/EC of 27 November 2000 establishing a framework for equal treatment in the field of employment and calling chosen by law under the rule of law of Croatian law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84547	On behalf of the applicant, amendments to the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84548	Your Honor, Mr. President. Of course, no one is against the protection against discrimination, but Article 69 completely unfounded refers to this on the basis of sexual orientation. Since sexual orientation is neither stated nor determined as a condition, assumption or statement in the conclusion of a life partnership, which we consider to be okay because it would affect people's intimacy, however, this institute is open to the persons of the same sex, regardless of sexual orientation. Therefore, it is pointless to provide protection for something that is not defined as a framework or content of the institute itself as it is here. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84549	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 26 that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 27 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84550	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84551	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84552	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The prohibition of amendments to specific laws must only be imposed by the Constitution, not by ordinary law. In addition, this is in the part of the subject matter of the Law on Life Partnership, not in the part of the regulation of the Life Partnership Act of the same sex. Therefore, this provision is completely pointless. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84553	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment number 27, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 28 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84554	Amendment No 28 of the HDZ Representatives Club is identical to the amendment of the HDSB's Representatives Club as well. I'll read a unique explanation. The provisions of the law therefore implement the constitutional obligation of equal treatment laid down in Article 3 and Article 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in the performance of economic activities, the provision of services on the market, and in the legal order since 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84555	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84556	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This article is not at all part of the subject matter of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex and, if the partnership and the marriage community are two different institutes, it is certainly not part of the legal effects of the life partnership. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84557	May we plead Amendment number 28 that the government does not accept? Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 29 of the same club of representatives. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84558	The amendment shall be rejected with the same reasoning as Amendment 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84559	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84560	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the matter of rights and obligations relating to rent and use of the apartment or part of the apartment is governed by the Law on renting apartments and he is lex specialis, therefore not allowed to enter its matter. However, it should also be pointed out that this is the opposite of the mandatory head of the lease agreement. Anyone who is not listed in the lease contract has no right to use the apartment according to the House Rental Act, therefore this will again cause controversy, again different interpretations and again problems in implementation. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84561	I'm asking you to come forward with an amendment number 29 that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 30 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84562	It's unacceptable. The provision aligns the legal order of the Republic of Croatia with the obligations arising from Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and members of their families to free movement and residence in the territory of a Member State.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84563	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, that thing's a little more complicated. First, the matter of temporary residence approval is governed by the Act on Foreigners, which is lex specialis and by ordinary law cannot be penetrated into its matter. However, it is necessary to say that the legal effects of a life partnership or of a homosexual marriage registered abroad should be governed by the law on international private law or amendments to the Law on conflict resolution, and the law with the regulations of other countries in certain relations, if they regulate this law, must prescribe a minimum age of 18 years, because otherwise we will be talking about paedophilia or pedophilia, which is contrary to the public morality of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it is completely indeterminate and incomprehensible why life partners who have concluded and registered life partnerships, I stress and register, would keep their lives secret as mentioned here. It's just the opposite with a healthy logic. Therefore, precisely because of such non-compliance of this article, I request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84565	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number 30, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 31 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84566	The government does not accept with the same explanation as Amendment 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84567	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, like the previous amendment, freedom of movement matter is governed by the Foreigner Act, which is lex specialis and still cannot be touched. In addition, this article is not at all part of the subject matter of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex. And I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84569	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement about amendment number 31, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 32 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84570	The amendment is not accepted. This provision aligns the legal order of the Republic of Croatia with the obligations arising from Directive 32/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 in common procedures for the recognition and withdrawal of international protection and related decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84571	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I must admit that the argument has nothing to do with reality because the matter of approval of international protection is well regulated by our Croatian Asylum Act again lex specialis and in which it cannot be touched. Furthermore, neither the matter of this law is international protection, and the legal effects of the life partnership abroad should be governed by the Law on International Private Law or amendments to the Law on conflict resolution, and the law with the regulations of other countries in certain relations. Therefore, this article is not at all part of the subject matter of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84573	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment 32, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 33 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84574	It is an amendment that suggests that article 77 on the acquisition of Croatian citizenship should be deleted. The government doesn't accept the amendment. The aim of the law is to ensure equal access to all rights, privileges and obligations necessary to successfully build a shared family life of two persons based on their feelings, emotional intimacy and commitment. Given that under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure equal respect and dignity for the same-sex communities, restricting access to these rights is not in line with its fundamental objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84575	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to mention again, even though an emotional connection has been mentioned in the explanation. Unfortunately, I stress unfortunately in this law there is no word about the emotional connection between these people that I don't think is good. But speaking of this amendment, the matter of acquisition of Croatian citizenship is regulated by the Law on Croatian Citizenship. So he can't get into his matter at all because it's a lex specialis. And actually this article is not part of the subject matter of regulating the Life Partnership Act of the same sex. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84577	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment number 33, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 34 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84578	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposed amendment proposes to delete Article 78 which speaks of rights and obligations during the execution of the prison sentence. So, the aim of the law is that if one of them happens to end up in prison they can visit as family members. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84579	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And yet, of course, it's nobody's goal to limit it, but we think they have to visit. However, the matter of the execution of a prison sentence is governed by the Law on the execution of a prison sentence which is lex specialis and cannot be infiltrated by other laws in its matter. This is therefore not at all part of the subject matter of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex. It will again cause legal unrest, conflicts, interpretation problems, and we are suing the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84581	Yes, thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement about Amendment 34, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 35 of the same club representing the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84582	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as Amendment 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84583	I'd like the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84584	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, like in previous cases, a ban on changing special laws can only be imposed by the Constitution, not by ordinary law. In addition, the guarantee of the prohibition of more favourable treatment of life partnerships in respect of obligations, rights and privileges granted to marriage communities is simply not within the scope of the legal effects of the life partnership if marriage and the life partnership are different institutes. This article is therefore not at all part of the subject matter of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84585	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment number 35, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 36 of the same Club of Representatives, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84586	With the proposed law, the amendment proposes that the 2003 Law on the same-sex Communities should not cease to apply. The Government does not accept this amendment, because by applying the Law on the Life Partnership of Same-Sex Persons, which, in a new, more comprehensive and more comprehensive manner, determines the position of same-sex communities, ceases the need for the validity of the 2003 Law on the same-sex communities. And the government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84587	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, the promoter did not create a new institute that would replace the same-sex community or, in the transitional provisions, found that previous same-sex communities are considered life partnerships, i.e. informal life partnerships. Therefore, there is no reason to abolish the Law on Same-Sex Communities. But there's one important difference between the same-sex community institutes, which is the living community of two people of the same sex who are not married. And I stress to an extramarital or other same-sex community that lasts at least three years, etc. And I'm based on the emotional relationship of my partner again. In contrast, a life partnership may be concluded by a person who is in an extramarital community or in an informal life partnership. Therefore, the same-sex community is exclusive, two persons, and the life partnership does not exclude a relationship with thirds, i.e. polygamy, i.e. polyandria. In addition, the same-sex community is intended exclusively for persons of homosexual orientation and the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex has not explicitly written it anywhere. In addition, the Proposer did not appreciate or evaluate the Law on Same-Sex Communities, nor did he try to change it and there is no reason to abolish it because they are different institutes. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84589	Please state the amendment No. The 36th government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 37th, respected ministers, the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84590	The proposed amendment proposes that the law enter into force on 1 January 2016. Since this law, by my personal conviction, makes Croatia significantly better when it is passed than it was yesterday, I see no reason to wait until 1 January 2016. Although there is a constitutional justification to come into force and on the first day of publication in the National Journal, I think this is a solution of 8 days appropriate and the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84591	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84592	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the ruling majority rejected our proposal to go into third reading to try to reach a consensus on resolving this issue, of course, most of the hands will vote all of this on what we had observations about. I have tried in a series of amendments to point to problems, objective problems that will arise in the implementation of this law. Inconsistencies with a whole series of other laws, controversy in conduct, I stress not worldly, not ideological, but legal controversy that will arise and create problems for the people to whom this law applies. In order to protect constitutional values, in order to protect the rule of law, we have proposed that this be postponed until 1 January 2016 so that the system and those acting in the system can be prepared can truly ensure that this law can be applied and that, with the assistance of the Family Law that I am stressing, it has not yet been adopted. Therefore, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84593	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 37th which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are now going to the amendments of respected representatives of Gordana Sobol, Shime Lučina and Igor Coleman. So, Amendment No. 1st of Article 44, Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84594	Article 44, I apologize, Mr. President, it's about having two similar amendments so I don't say no with the wrong explanation. Therefore, Article 44 of the amendment does not accept it if Article 44 of the definition of partner care is spoken of because we believe that this definition of how it was proposed in the amendment would in one way narrow the rights of persons who are in a life partnership, which I suppose was not the proposal's intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84595	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84596	I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment since the way we tried to define in which cases parental care is being taken we are aware that, according to our proposal, that infringement part has actually remained out of it and yet we ultimately accept that a better way of saying that the Government has proposed and we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84597	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 2. of the same fellow MPs in Article 45(1) and paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84598	The same explanation does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84599	You're pulling back?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84600	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84601	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. We have Amendment No. 3. of the same fellow MPs, respected ministers in Article 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84602	Amendment No. 3. is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84603	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84604	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn and this one. We are going to the amendment of respected colleagues Igor Coleman, Shime Lučina and Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84605	Your Honor, Mr. President, if you have ever met in a political life with a saying, I have an opinion but I disagree with it, it can also be applied to this amendment. It is therefore an article 49a that speaks of adding to the law the right to adopt as a special form of family legal care and child protection. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. We believe that given the current social circumstances, the law is an attempt to compromise democratically between the values of views and the world-wide horizons currently in tension in Croatian society. The democratic compromise on which the law is based clearly expresses respect for the high caution that this part of our fellow citizens sees changes within the way society regulates family relations, especially when it comes to adoption of children. This respect is reflected in the fact that the Life Partnership Act does not contain provisions on adoption but remains exclusively in the Family Law governing marriage and the extramarital community.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84606	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84607	Can I finish? Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84608	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84609	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Since the political explanation was given by the minister and I will begin with him. Our mouths are full of equality, freedom and democracy unless we agree with those who think differently or are different. We are often advocating equality, especially a minority. And as the minister said, it's not time, society isn't ready, the most common reasons are when it comes to denying the rights of minorities. The proposal of the Life Partnership Act does not contain provisions on the adoption of children in the same way as the Family Law without reasonable justification. The adoption of children is always motivated by the protection of the welfare of children, and methods that assess the similarity to adoption must be equal in relation to all citizens regardless of their sexual orientation. The harmonisation of the possibility of adopting children to homosexual persons, i.e. couples, is discrimination, especially in view of the fact that Croatia is, in addition to national legislation, suppressing discrimination between the signatories of Protocol 12, 12. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights. European countries are currently able to adopt children by same-sex partners, parents in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland and the UK. The adoption of children together is made possible by same-sex couples in Belgium, Denmark, France, Iceland, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Switzerland and Great Britain, and these countries are often our role models, so let them be our role models now. And I hope the Left will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84610	Are you asking for a vote or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84611	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84612	I would like to make a statement on the amendment of representatives Igor Coleman, Sima Lučina and Branko Vuksic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Finally, we have an amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives to Article 71.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84613	The amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives to Article 71 identical amendment 28 of the HDZ Representatives Club with the same explanation is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84614	Thank you very much. That's what we decided. We won't vote on anything. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the final proposal of the law to be declared. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 89 votes in favour, 16 votes against the adoption of the Law on the Life Partnership of the same sex in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84615	My colleagues and colleagues, while there is something else for us and a representative of the clubs, tomorrow we will work from point 18 to finalise with point 24. And now we move on to the debate on - Final proposal of the Law on State Information Infrastructure, second reading, P.Z. No. 653 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. The draft law will be explained by the Deputy Minister of Administration Dr. Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84616	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam Vice-President before you is the State Information Infrastructure Act in his final version that solves three key issues of state information. The first is the responsibility for managing and coordinating the development of e-public administration and the development of state information infrastructure. The law aims to regulate the area of information and communication state infrastructure in such a way that it acts as a single undivided system for providing services to citizens and business entities. The second question to be solved is the creation of the so-called. virtual one-stop shop. The virtually unique administrative location is primarily a central state portal in which every electronic service must be in the system of that virtual single management post. When we connect a single administrative place with what we have in the system of state administration as a legal norm, which is the solutions of the State Administration System Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act on a single administrative place, then we get one electronic life-saving of the principles and solutions of these two system-based administrative regulations. The third question to be addressed is the obligation to use data in basic registers with the purpose of discharging citizens from the administrative burdens often imposed on them by the state. the physical carrying of documents between institutions. We're talking about the ideal model here, we're talking about what's really a trend for us, which is a state without paper, a tendency to and the goal that citizens don't have to transfer documents between different institutions, but to be and that is, but in reality, it's the task of the institution. I remind you that now state queens, citizens' books and voters' registers are networked. Documents may be issued in any home office for any home area and made available to queens through the E-Citizens system. The illustrations work and the information works today since June and to this day more than 40,000 users have accessed the E-Citizen system. Among the two readings were made certain alignments of this first text with the one you have before you today and the vast majority, almost all the remarks that were made in the first reading were accepted. Thus, the comments of MPs Marija Lugarić, Davorin Mlakar, Ivan Šuker, Davor Bozinović, Davor Bernardic, Tomislav Žagar and Miroslav Tudjman were accepted. Here, we finally feel that this law deserves to be supported as a good legal infrastructure to ensure further modernisation of administrative behaviour, actions that will be in favour of the administration as a citizen administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84617	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84618	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club will be pleased to support this bill as well as in the debate in the first reading and we are now assessing it as one of the most important reform laws of this term. What is this attitude based on? Namely, one of the major or more frequent complaints from our citizens and businesses is the slowness of the state administration and the daily frustration of many citizens by spending too much time waiting in line with the counters of some of the state or public institutions to extract some of the document after some new orders and some of the new counters receive some of the basic documents, which, for example, later to some third state bodies prove their identity. So, there are hours of walking around the city, a few dozen kuna marks, and all we're actually doing as citizens is carrying papers from one state institution to another and not any other, so to speak foreign papers, but papers issued by that same state. So the state asks citizens to bring her the papers issued by that same state. Bizarrely, of course, but similar if not worse, bureaucratic horrors are experienced by entrepreneurs based on the same principle. Wait for state papers to be taken to another state institution so that this other state institution can issue some kind of paper that needs a third state institution. Such a practice would be to ensure that citizens of paper suppliers within the system of state administration are subject to the adoption or full application of this law. We have heard and determined, therefore, that the law establishes state information infrastructure, public registers, data exchange, identification and authentication systems and points of interaction with citizens and other users. Behind these but also other professional and technical expressions in the law itself is actually a very simple story. List all databases that exist on citizens and other entities, and connect and enable easy and quick use of data. In particular, in the event of a child being reported after birth, which is usually one of the more complicated jobs that you have as a citizen with the state to the police, you should not wear the papers that you received from your mother because the police will be able to see them alone, and with the full application of the system of E-Citizens that is also being established and formally this law, you will actually be able to do it all by yourself from your home without any walking or wasting time. Today, most of the bases are digitized either electronically or planned to become one. Indeed, there are already a number of services or e-services provided or provided by the State. Children enroll in high school by electronic means, are enrolled in the same way in colleges, we have established an e-builder's license, e-workbook and the like. Now it's really necessary to connect all these bases and spare all the time and money. In order to achieve this, Article 5 of law defines the principles of the development of state information infrastructure. The availability of data from public registers, single management, interoperability, scalability and rationalisation of expenditure are the most important principles for us in the SDP. The law well defines both the basic concepts and there is a special commendation to the promoter which has nevertheless found a way for the formulations of which the definitions are given in a comprehensible language but in a way that does not compromise professional terms and definitions. Definitions are clear to me as well as to unprofessional women, and then I guess that's always a good principle. As Mr. Deputy Minister said, some minor changes have been made between the two readings of the text laws in line with the proposals made by us from the SDP as well as other colleagues and colleagues in the debate. I thank you for accepting the proposals of our club and our representatives. The application of this law in a technical and organisational sense is enough, so to speak of background work but it also has its visible manifestation for all through the E citizens system. It is a system which is part of the information infrastructure and which is actually a central place for the communication of the state with citizens through a system of personal user compartments. Fortunately, with a game of circumstances or on purpose entirely whatever the reason, completely irrelevant but between the two readings of the law, the light of day saw that system of E citizens. I personally, as I believe, am a large majority of you and as many of our fellow citizens in FINA filled out the form, got credentials and codes, or E pass, and so I actually became an E citizen. After home registration, I only quickly printed my home computer and my birth certificate, and the housekeeper, saw the state of my pension account and everything else. So I invite all of you colleagues, but also all citizens that if they are not to become E citizens, it is easy, easy and useful and absolutely free. Otherwise, the data shows that so far around 30,000 of our citizens have become E citizens by taking over the E pass credentials in FINA’s offices while the other slightly more than 10 thousand have taken advantage of the already existing access data from other primary pension insurance systems, employment services and REGOS and online became E citizens. Also, about 2,800 users from A and EDO have been included in the E citizens system, it is a system of identification of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Since the start of work, the system E citizens in a month or slightly less than a month all E services have been used more than 200 thousand times, the most commonly used service of the personal user compartment to which users have applied almost 50,000 times, then E service HZMO with about 42,000 applications, and E queens with about 30,000 applications. I am glad that by adopting the law, which is the purpose of actually passing the law, everyone in the country will also have an obligation to connect to the E-Citizen system because so far, those who have managed to convince themselves that they are doing so, so that all services will be available to all of us in time. So, in addition to making it possible to communicate with each other with this law, we enable citizens to communicate with different authorities of the state administration in one place. We are also happy that there is a plan and mobile application and that as citizens we will soon communicate with the state in the same way as we have already gotten used to with, for example, banks, where I personally, like many of you, do all the transactions and payment accounts with my cell phone. The law also provides for the adoption of two regulations which need to prescribe technical solutions, and it is good that these technical solutions have not been burdened by the law because of technical specifications that are not really within the law, which is because of the good anti-cipulation of the fact that technology is changing rapidly and that there is also a need to ensure sufficient rapid application and change and adaptation of technical provisions. In this respect, we estimate that the existing level of specification and principles from technical to safety in the law is defined at optimal level and should not be extended. And finally, this is one of the shorter laws that we are discussing and discussed in the Croatian Parliament, including transitional and final provisions, this law has only 23 articles, but the achievement and importance of this law is precisely dramatically proportional to its size. We can almost say that it is a small law for a major change, a major change in the way the state bodies operate, a major change in the way the state administration works and the big change in the way the state works with citizens. Everything will bring savings to both the state and the citizens, but not less importantly, and will increase transparency, reliability and openness of the state administration. And we, as citizens, hope that, when the law comes to life, we will no longer have to do so before we engage in the adventure of issuing a personal ID card, to carefully study the scheme of steps during the issue of personal documents, namely, and it exists because it is so complicated that the police, for every praise, have even made a scheme that is all steps. So, that after that, we won't need to wait for a document to be taken to the lady on the counter 10 down the hall, but that what we're going to get from the police in the personal user compartment is a notice that we're soon out of ID cards, through the central state portal to order a certain document without walking, without waiting in lines and without wasting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84619	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84620	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Mr. Deputy, I wish I could share this optimism with my colleague Lugaric. I'm going to try another reading of this law without repeating everything we said in the reading process, because here we've somehow got a little satisfaction in the explanation that you've accepted from all of our remarks one or two, one extension period, one definition of which you gave up because it was rather pointless in the first reading of the law. I will only say for the sake of understanding of this law that the arguments you use to justify the adoption of this law are not exactly commendable to the Ministry and Government then to introduce e-Croatia or this way of information, informational connection in all bodies of the state administration and public services. However, what you say about colleagues as arguments that they will improve the procedure in front of state authorities or local self-government bodies is not true. It's neither the subject of this law nor this law can resolve it. In order to resolve the issue of unnecessary walking, obtaining all the necessary documentation, you need to change the specific regulations that introduced the need to adopt these documents. You will find in the Road Safety Act 10 documents you have to bring for registration of personal vehicles that this law will not solve regardless of how you connect. This is how you will find in the Law on Matheism so that I do not go to collect special laws, all the law force that is completely unnecessary, and especially sublegal acts that fully unnecessarily impose the need for people to bring, contribute to the authorities of the state administration, or often local self-government, documents that are possible otherwise. Why people collected these documents over 50 years is quite clear, because they were able to collect them before the public authorities or bodies of the public service were able to do so themselves, which is why people applied documents. But in order for that need to be resolved, all specific laws will have to be amended. I was grateful to the idea that we would informically connect the bodies of the state administration and no one would be wise to object and our criticism of this law did not go because we would not want the authorities of the state administration to function effectively, quickly and to the satisfaction of their users of their services. The question is, will this and this law make it possible? What we said in our first reading, unfortunately, as a criticism of this law applies to a second reading. According to its structure, this is not a law at all, this is a strategy for the development or integration of public sector bodies and state administration into a meaningful data-sharing unit. You said, and that was one of our remarks that the definitions and concepts in this law were simplified to make it easier to understand. Unfortunately, I still don't understand a lot of it, especially I believe that it will be difficult to understand the citizens to whom this law is intended. I'm going to illustrate what I'm talking about with concrete examples of this law. The law explains, inter alia, the basic concepts for its own purposes, so Article 2(1) of point 3 states that the State Information Infrastructure is a system made up of a common state basis for the secure exchange of data and interoperability tools such as meta-registration, technical standards, classifications, public registers, the system of e-citizens and the network of state information infrastructures, speednet and carnet. I have to admit, I've been trying to figure out what the State Information Infrastructure is and I don't quite understand what that means. And that's why what's a service, and that's information, is becoming basic here, so to speak, a conductor making regulations. This is a regulation that was primarily made for IT, not for ordinary citizens, and then the terms of information become crucial in this law, I don't think they're either understandable or legally correct, and I'll explain why. So, this definition, that I'm not going into a detailed debate, which means the common state base, is not clear, but it's also talking about the existence of two infrastructure networks, speedy and carnets, the question is whether that's all, whether it's the only one and whether it's a material basis for connecting into that entire State Information Infrastructure. What I think is not technically wrong in this law is the fact that, under the same basic terms, they are defined in point 9 of the same point of public service and they are spoken of as being, and then in point 19 of the state administration body and other state bodies, and then again in point 20 of the public sector body. The one who reads it in the end will not know who it refers to and what it meant, the more the state authorities and bodies of public administration are defined by other laws, but there was absolutely no need to redefine them and not always in the best way and this law. You have the law of at least 3 laws as far as I know where it's defined what the authorities of the state administration are and what the authorities of public administration are, so there was no need like this, and it's different now to redefine those bodies. But it's just one of the remarks. By Article 3 of this same law, you have said public registers, data in them and all elements necessary for their interpretation are the assets of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I'm saying from some humble experience, it's not true, or if this is going to be a norm, it means that you've supported some ownership issues in some of the areas that are otherwise arranged. In particular, when making contracts with software companies, the issue of ownership of these software and of these data used in these specific operational solutions or software programmes is very often arranged. The mass of the contract has, among other things, a provision that the data is not owned by whoever ordered the software but is owned by whoever built the software. If this is the way the state is thinking about taking possession of all that data now, then I'm afraid it's doing something that's contrary to contract provisions in the crowd of companies that had such solutions. However, this is likely to prove to be a hasty decision one day, so you will probably get property claims from those who by contract have resolved the ownership issue among other things and the data. What we were saying at the outset, they remain as remarks in the second reading, and unfortunately, the promoter did not adopt them in the first place. One of the comments would refer to Article 6 where, for the purpose of coordinating state information infrastructure projects, a public register for the coordination of state information infrastructure projects is being established, the ProDII is almost sounding like a reperial name to me, but it may be convenient for the future in use. But what this definition means and how it should be understood, I fear that the citizens to whom this law is intended will find it very difficult to understand. To shorten the exposure to what we said in the first reading, you gave up the definition of the authenticity of the data and it seems to us to be commendable for accepting our remarks. You have remained with article 15 of a norm that is completely unnecessary and incomprehensible in which you say public registers are abolished by the law they are set up. It's so notorious or in itself clear that it shouldn't have stood in this law, we told you that in the first reading, and I think you could have taken that as a well-intentioned suggestion because you didn't say anything special to this. You're actually talking about a whole series of registers, so the data that keeps the official records. One day we will likely be able to truly experience those bodies that keep official records and exchange their data. How quickly this will be established and how it remains to be seen, but in that part of the information connection we would absolutely support this law. However, this law has not said anything about these registers except that it assumes in the possession of the Republic of Croatia all the data I have already spoken about, and it seems to me that it is contrary to many contracts. You do not, of course, have any analysis of how many such specific solutions exist so far on those registers on which the data is kept and on which the contracts are based, not only founded but later and managed and used. And finally, what was our observation and in the first reading, everything seems to be very much wanted because we do not have other more important jobs in the country to further imagine what someone should do about this rather vague story about the establishment of state information infrastructure, so Article 18 of you prescribed the powers of the Central Authority of the State for e-Croatia's affairs to deal with this state information infrastructure and these two existing networks, and the other networks that we are not talking about because there is nothing said about them here. Therefore, Article 18 of you prescribed what the central authority of the State administration should do with information infrastructure. And the conclusion is from the 10 jobs listed in Article 18 that what is actually objective, quality, measureable should not be done at all. And that's what we're saying is that there's this administration that we're all counting so hard against. And I will say once again, this central body should collect and analyse data, coordinate construction projects, plan development, co-operate on projects, monitor implementation and enforcement, intervene in cases of possible disputes, establish measures, prepare an annual report and verify the consistency of the legal basis. When you take this business a little more seriously, you'll see that they can't be measured, they can't describe it, and neither do all of these powers of the focused function of that central body mean anything to the specific business. Everything that's been done so far can be undermined by all these jobs that you've listed. And all that was the business of keeping the registers existed so far and without this law. The obligation to connect registers to a single whole is absolutely acceptable and praiseworthy idea but it did not need this law to do so. If he needed the law, then he should have been in a completely different form with specific jobs, powers, responsibilities and in the ultimate line and in the criminal provisions you don't have here, for those who won't stick to it. They're right, it's known in the legal theory and imperfect laws where criminal provisions are missing, but then we're wondering what to leave in the state administration certain responsibilities if they're specific jobs, and you're saying no one's going to answer for anything. So we think, let me just conclude that there are more strategies left in the second reading of this law than the law and suggest that you might consider withdrawing it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84621	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84622	At the beginning of your presentation, you referred to a part of my presentation, expressed your skepticism that this law does not change anything. While you were saying that, it took me 15 seconds to get my birth certificate excerpt and that's a change of law. It's a change of law because you'd sooner have to go to some home office, wait there order, pay some note and then get to it. It took me 15 seconds to get him on the screen right now. That's one thing. Secondly, this part about data and ownership of data in public registers, I think it's very important and well that it changed between two readings. Public registers within the meaning of this law are official records kept in electronic form. Personally, both as a representative and as a citizen, I would be extremely concerned that the data in these registers is owned by a private person or a legal person, a company of this person or those. We had such a semi-crisis to say the situation with the e-matrix, so the system for primary and secondary schools that was done by a private company that tried to prove among other things or prove that it was their data, so we would lose all the grades of all the children overnight because the private company said no, that's our data. The ownership of the state over the data is indeed one of the most important things in this law. And if there's some public register where the data about me, you, anyone, any official state records, there's even a small chance that suddenly someone remembers and says no, no, thank you very much, we're breaking the contract and it's going to be my private now so I'm doing what I want is extremely dangerous and it's something that I would never support or want to end up like that at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84623	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84624	Well, fellow Members of Lugaric is really looking forward to this way of discussion, but you are persistently justifying something with examples that do not have a direct connection with it. What I'm talking about is that this law extends not only to the bodies of the state administration if you read well, although you have several distinctly defined public services and public bodies. This applies to all public services, both health care and education and museums and institutions in culture. If you know and the ministry couldn't give it as an analysis before it goes with this law that the contracts concluded and what provisions in those contracts are who are the data owners that are being processed, then you and I don't talk about the same thing. The least of the problems were birth books and the least of the problems was getting data from the queens born, married or dead. The problem is with all the other registers that you must first understand how many there are and who ran them all and how to then dare to state, or under the property of the state to place data if they are contrary to contracts that were the basis for even establishing such registers. That's what we're talking about. And as for e-enrolment in high school, which is obviously your only example, it wasn't necessary to pass a special law, that's what we're talking about today. Even this connection doesn't require any special law. It is only necessary to instruct all bodies to exchange data in an appropriate manner and on platforms on which such data can be exchanged at all. Let me just tell you this body that is proposing today this law is still not able to give you an exact number of public sector employees that have already been discussed for several years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84625	Thank you very much. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84626	Thank you very much. You have rightly warned your colleague, Mlakar, that this does not remind you of the law. You said this to remind you of the strategy, reminds me of something else more on the rulebook or on the Rules of Procedure and perhaps even on procedures or rules but perhaps on instructions. And about how necessary the law would be to see a colleague of Lugaric speaking that within 15 seconds she came to a copy of the birth certificate and it came without this law. There is no law, it just shows the unnecessaryness of such a law. And even though it's so short, it's so full of mistakes and bad terms. Which means meta-registration. Somebody try to explain to me the meaning of the word meta register. It may have been meant to be the main register or something different, but the target register can't be justified by anything. It is said in the explanation that the proposal of counterpart Shuker is related to Article 22(6) which does not speak at all about what is said to be accepted. In the second, it accepted the proposal of Agent Davorin Mlakara, Article 22, the same paragraph 6 and the different proposals, but it does not correspond to what Article 6 or Article 8 is actually talking about. So much surface but I'll do it in an individual debate. But you rightly point to the possibility, unpreparedness because software owners were more and only protecting themselves and certainly no software users and without systematic analysis of these contracts should not be declared someone else's, something someone else's because then it becomes a threat to the lawsuits, major damages and project failures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84627	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84628	A colleague, Maric, you have now asked at the end the key question about the ownership of the infrastructure that exists. We know from some companies that went through the conversion process that the question is at all infrastructure whether it entered the core capital of these companies or not. There is a whole series of possibilities to connect to different networks, here it is now suddenly decided to put two networks into this system and everything else that exists in that entire space is beyond the reach of this Law. The law that he really wanted to solve a connection issue then should have probably solved that part of the infrastructure that relates to, as it would say, hardware solutions, any possible linkage between the state administration's body which has not yet been completed, let alone the public sector, let alone what today implies that municipal companies in local self-government units will also work on it. This law assumes that we are all extremely written, that we can understand and apply this, and we are not. I can speak for myself here, not to speak for others, these standards are unclear to me. I'm afraid of what it'll look like at a local level in a utility company where you impose a fixed obligation, and they don't have simple people technical opportunities, knowledge and will at all to solve it. So as an idea, it's good, but as a law, it's totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84629	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84630	Thank you very much. My fellow Mlakar, the worst thing is when it's glorified and now there's nothing going on, we've done it all and it's fallen out of the sky somewhere and it's all working now. So the sparrows on the branch already know that the main information support in the Croatian state administration is given by APIS. Lately, it's been relying on something on FINA. This APIS has been developing for years. The obligation to connect state authorities is regulated by the OIB Act because the OIB cannot be applied if they are not interlinked state institutions. The second thing is, as minister, you signed the Data Exchange Protocol, and at the time when certain registers will be made available to citizens, it depends on who will make the political decision. And so it was for the housekeepers, a copy of the birth certificates, so it all existed. At some point, someone decided that given the technique, it would be accessible for citizens to reach them. But there's also some kind of project that unfortunately died, and that's HITROREZ who simply eliminates what his colleague Mlakar was saying, a bunch of those laws and regulations that we simply don't need. But now it appears, but this is the key that this law should have been resolved and it does not solve it, this law as if it were written by informers, so the key thing is to force the state bureaucracy to simply tell them that certain regulations should no longer be and that certain data simply should not be as they are. And that's what we're all talking about reform here, and that's what we're all talking about stopping bureaucracy, and this is just what we're talking about here today, the technical means of doing it all together. Because I am telling you that many members of the European Union, at least as far as the Ministry of Finance are concerned, are more informationally less and connected and are doing worse than in Croatia. But you don't need to glorify something that exists, you have the OIB Act and you have processes that were made at the end of 2010, and they're clearly telling you about the interconnection and obligation of data exchange.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84631	Thank you. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84632	Thank you, fellow Shucker, for replicating you for giving me the opportunity to say that, although I will not speak openly for not doing any unnecessary advertising to anyone. So what we're talking about is something that didn't happen yesterday, that's things that develop over the years. All the time we've been talking about the system in the state, so a logical, coherent system is being built for many years on a basis not only of regulations but of some experience you have. But in all this, IT is an auxiliary tool, and never the main creator of what modern public or state administration will look like. What did I miss to say? Here, to put it so mildly, it feels like I'm not saying the smell of some concrete information institutions or companies that have been dealing with this pseudo-science business for many years, but have not always been in a position and in a state-of-the-art position of their services very expensive to sell to the state administration. Now again, this style imposes the need for their engagement in order to buy their services by means of the state budget tomorrow and to conclude that, and some of the institutions they have with these companies have bought and experienced their solutions for 10 years, and that the solutions have never worked in practice. I'm afraid this will happen with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84633	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84634	Dear colleague Mlakar, I've listened very carefully to your exposure. A lot of what I wanted to replicate to you have already been used by colleagues in their replicas, but I will not give up the replica to give you the opportunity to say what you may not have been able to say, as well as to explain more clearly because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who unfortunately cannot look at us in direct transmission, but will certainly see it from the minutes of the Assembly session. You said very nicely Article 18, where it was meant to be or where everything that this body should actually be concerned with was numbered. What is important to say here, and you have failed to say this to an esteemed colleague, regardless of your great experience in the state administration, is that it is simply out of this all that is stated in Article 18 it is impossible to implement. And then, of course, the question arises whether it made any sense to what you said in your reasoned debate when it was clear that everything would try to apply what was mentioned in Article 18 that it simply could not result in any.... The key question now arises: have we made more chaos and difficulties with this law than if we had gone the way that colleagues suggested, the development of certain APIS or some other state-owned companies that could further develop it in some kind of operating system, and without the new legal regulations that in some tax-based way hold these functions together?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84635	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84636	Thank you very much. Here is my colleague Mesic, who gave me the opportunity to join him, although Croatian Radio Television will certainly not convey his or her presentation after the experiences with his speeches. But there are at least a few of us here who are trying to make the rules clearer and more applicable. My colleague Mesic, what you said and what you stated in article 18 was merely an illustration of what I was saying in this law. This law is one without any blame specifically of the Ministry of Administration in the hyperproduction of unnecessary regulations that abound our country. And when production so to say the law grows beyond normal frameworks, then we actually question respect for the principle of rule of law, because in these woods regulations and laws that sow daily no one can manage anymore. We're actually spreading the field of legal uncertainty, and that's why I was talking about a particular company whose handwriting can be read here because in those woods the regulations will best pass those who hunt in the blurry. This foundation for making something that is completely unnecessary for many things with all the installed capacities we have, I will not now go to the question that they have respected the remark so that servers are positioned in the Republic of Croatia because it no longer means anything today, given their ability to connect with other servers. But the question is whether in this sense this law helps to praise a valuable effort to resolve the issue of document collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84637	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84638	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. At the beginning of the matter, I will say that the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support the Final Proposal for a Law on State Information Infrastructure as we announced when we first read the law itself. What I want to point out here in particular is the fact that the promoter has listened carefully to the debate in the first reading and has accepted a whole series of proposals for correcting the text itself, so individual solutions that are prescribed by text that are not actually large and large at all. This is a total of 23 articles. It should be said that everything that has its prefix with "E" is already very, very long popular in the Republic of Croatia. We have been listening about e-Croatia for a very long time, and every little step in connecting public registers is announced, in facilitating the lives of citizens who are going through individual documentation, i.e. they actually exercise their rights that belong to them but the bureaucracy by nature of things puts a whole series of obstacles on that path through very complicated procedures and through all the wider and wider number of preconditions or documents that should be obtained, attached to them. Citizens, of course, must respect the laws, everyone must respect the laws, but the practice is that citizens do not have to know everything the system has to recognize from within and what is prescribed as an obligation. The citizen simply doesn't know all the details of certain procedures, and only when he comes into a position that he wants to achieve his right to realize in fact how many of these forest regulations were established for decades were actually built to make his life more complicated, not simpler. If we were to create catalogues of procedures in different administrative matters, in different procedures in which a citizen should have his or her fundamental rights or to issue the most ordinary basic documents he needs we would be in a position to see how much in these catalogues is really extra elements. There have been long talk of certain palitative solutions that will make revolutionary changes. Yes, the OIB was introduced but he didn't function the way it was promised to this day. It's been years. Yes, a HITROREZ project has been launched. He hasn't heard from him in years and hasn't left any effect. Yes, there have been attempts before. Even somewhere on the local level, we have very successful examples such as the case in Međimurje County where the binding of different levels, those who have to provide certain public services by law. So, where this commitment is very developed and functional, where citizens really don't have to walk around until they're exhausted in order to achieve their right or at least to gain a starting position in achieving certain rights or perhaps even benefits. However, if this is a fact, therefore, that there are certain levels, certain places, cities or counties where there is already some progress that gives credit to the citizen, and on the other hand the fact that this is not a general situation throughout Croatia, then there is an absolute claim by the applicants in the explanation that at this point there is no legally regulated area that would regulate access to the building of the entire information infrastructure of the state. If that's true, then there's no other logic than to arrange that area. And there's nothing different about this area than the law. We can do equilibristics now, we can talk about that everything we've had so far is functional enough, or that just something here and there needs to be pushed, a little more seriously, and that suddenly it's going to work, that's not the case. E-Croatia is only in conception. The E-Citizen has just begun as a project and covers this hour a relatively narrow circle of possibilities. So we in our own Parliament are unable to build content that would prefix e. Where is this E-Sabor? What's he got to do with it? So we're still voting manually. And not to talk about an E-Advocacy or what should be a standard long ago introduced in Croatia, and these are the E-Selections. Let that be the subject we'll be thinking about. Because if the fact that citizens are fed up with the complexity of our public administration, tired of it, protested, the last time I mentioned there is a special website called absurdist, where hundreds and hundreds of examples state that they are being cast out by the worst forms of virtually harassing, in a way that red tape turns to total harassment of citizens, which requires the enormous efforts of every individual who opposes this bureaucratic system, which ultimately results in great losses, damages, anxiety and dissatisfaction. Because every citizen who comes in front of a counter, who comes in front of any official at any level on the other hand, sees the state. If that state isn't functional, it's the government's fault. And when the government tries to stop something, create a platform on which it is possible to build new elements that will speed up, simplify, make it more transparent, make things more responsible, call out those who aren't doing their job right, then it's coming with a story that has a single denominator don't do anything, leave it as it is, we've brought all the regulations long ago, all wonderfully works. It's actually the nature of bureaucracy. And the worst part is when MPs come from messages that are nothing but defending the existing status quo. And one language used by bureaucracy in its nature. It's time for a change. Will they be fast enough? I wish we'd done all this a long time ago because I have a feeling and we all at HNS feel like these things are just getting late. And that's why I'm mentioning the E-choice today. Let's think carefully, if citizens are disappointed in political institutions, if citizens are disappointed in political parties, if citizens are disappointed in the structures they consider the bureaucratic face of this country and refuse to go to elections we have a high level of abstinence. If they speak ill of politics, if they speak ill of the government, if they speak ill of public services, we consider whether we are obliged to provide them with e-choices as a platform that will call for greater participation, facilitate their way to the decision-making site, give them the opportunity to feel that they are part of the decision-making process, to influence something, to change things. It's got nothing to do with this, but it's got something to do with it. Because the list of voters, the E-choicer, is some public register and is part of this system. And I hope it works as soon as possible. The HNS will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84639	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Boris Blazekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Associates. First of all, I have to say that one stinger stabbed me a little bit, which is that my colleague Lugaric was already in FINA and she took out her PIN. I haven't yet, and I'm sorry that I didn't make it, but first chance I get, I'm gonna leave because I'm terribly curious what I can get out of there and what data I can get to. And I have to admit the first chance I'm gonna do it. I've only reported that briefly, I'm going to repeat one part of my debate in my first reading, to briefly support this law because I find it unusually important and to open up the unsuspecting, that these are still invisible scales that will cover all this law and how useful it will be. Today, in a conversation between my colleague and my colleagues, we came to the conclusion that this is the beginning of a real public administration reform. Being modern, modern, in progress over time, is an advanced ideal and a constant insistence of liberals. Innovation, technology development, especially science, liberals is a challenge and motive. Liberals honestly and truly believe in science. If something is based on liberal science, they no longer question it, they believe it and try to implement it into social reality. Freedom is needed for the development of entrepreneurship, for the development of innovation. Freedom is dry. Our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. And that's why we liberals insist so much on the freedom of each individual, or individual. Only a person without fear, only a person free of all pressures of fear can be entirely creative. That is why the greatest researchers, inventors, and revolutionaries in all areas of human activity have always been truly brave people. This government and this coalition are doing exactly that job. It regulates the state so that everyone in it will be as free as possible and that whoever wants to go into the adventure of creation, creation, innovation, adventure of entrepreneurship as any and everyone without distinction in ideological, religious, racial, national or ideological belonging or any other personal belief and all under the same conditions. This coalition is working to make it possible for everyone to develop their talents and ambitions freely as part of their abilities to achieve, that is, to be happy and to achieve all their ideals. It's a difficult and mostly unpopular road. By setting up a state for all inevitably leading to a conflict with many, and I am glad that this government does not give rise to difficulties and expensive and is that this government has implemented today's proposal for a Law on State Information Infrastructure. The special thing is that this government clearly distinguishes the state and public administration, the public administration, that... The administrative, bureaucratic apparatus for which we often feel that the only purpose is to make life worse for the citizens, should play a very opposite role in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The public administration is and must be there to facilitate and simplify the life of citizens in the complex relations between state and their citizens. It is certain that today's modern era of electronic communications is the simplest, most efficient and anti-corruption way E to the state, i.e. by introducing state information infrastructure and setting up so-called state without paper. And let me just read here just a few, one part of the chapter of the reasoning that I think is important and that might mean the whole process. "In fact, citizens, which is an excellent sentence, citizens do not need to know the sharing of responsibility within state authorities and public services, and waste time exploring where individual requirements are being resolved, but rather the state that has to ensure the simplest way of access to services." I think that sentence speaks of this correct approach to the whole subject. It is achieved by a simple administrative location either in real, or in the virtual world. For the realization of both types of a single administrative place, it is necessary to ensure that all data are available in the country at the point of contact with the parties and at the site of the resolution of the requests. How to identify and authenticate in the virtual world, how to ensure the safety of institutions that often contain very sensitive data in accordance with the Data Protection Act will indeed be supplied to the person to whom these data relate. To address these problems in the bill, a system of the central state portal is identified as a unique administrative place in the virtual world, a national identification, authentication system is defined as binding on all institutions, the communication of public sector institutions with citizens is prescribed through the country's user database. All of these create legal assumptions for the achievement of the E Citizens project, and ultimately for the construction of the elements of the information society in the Republic of Croatia and for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of a European and global information society. It would also be best to read the whole of the law, which obliges the state in its 23 articles to regulate the public administration in electronic form and to establish a single information infrastructure at all levels of the state from the local board to the government. It seems virtually impossible at this point to see any positive repercussions resulting from the full application of this law if adopted. From the point of view of liberals among many others, it is primarily a reduction in the role of the state and a reduction of the state's involvement in citizens' personal lives. The second, no less important consequence of the adoption of this law is simply to cut down on corruption in this administrative close encounter between state and citizens and business entities. By applying state information infrastructure or by realising E of Croatia and E of citizens, these same citizens will become much more free. And only free citizens and citizens can be creative, innovative, entrepreneurial, free individuals free from fear can build their dreams, they can realize personal happiness and a large group of happy entrepreneurs make happy, advanced, innovative, modern society. And that is why I will be happy to support, along with my colleagues, the bill of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84641	Thank you. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will go back, no additional funding is necessary for the implementation of this law in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Is it possible that no information house and no consulting house will be engaged for the implementation of this law and that all difficulties and all solutions and everything that arises, obligations under this law, will be solved by the Ministry or the State Administration's informers themselves. Won't any overtime be paid? That's impossible, won't you spend a single piece of paper and so many regulations, that's how many rules come out of this? This, therefore, is so superficially written, doesn't need any funding, whatever you're doing can't be without any additional funding, let alone everything that comes out of this law here and what is going to be done either within a year or within three months, or three years that comes out. The tendency is one thing, and the way is quite another. The pursuit of some kind of establishment and, in particular, who wouldn't want to, and how is it not good and effective to get an electronic passport, to get a housewife, to get a birth certificate, but does the law decide that the property list is valid by electronic means? It's not worth it, not because the recruitery doesn't guarantee data by e-mail, it won't accept the second constitutional document by e-mail. Well, let's just say, e-mail payments, so they don't recognize 90% of legal entities, not even public administrations. For example, when you deliver a purchase contract to a state-owned company, here's to HEP to change the user's electrical number based on a certified purchase contract with a public notary will not do so. You must personally come, travel, either to Umag or Poreč or to Zadar and you must write a special statement, you must go back to the public notary, verify that statement and return, and then the power still has to come to you and the personal... real estate so you can check that all this is true, as if there is no purchase contract and as if no purchase contract is valid, a credible ID. Also, when you bring your housekeeper home by e-mail, no school will accept you. Birth certificate, you have, then one school will, the other won't. There's nothing legally regulated. People don't know each other and they can't manage because in one place it's like this, what I've been saying now is different in Zagreb and in Rijeka and in Split and in Zadar, different in Osijek, the same institution, the same company, the same institution, the same school. When we talk at first about... The national information infrastructure, paragraph 3, of Article 2 is defined as DII and explained what it is. Item 2, authentication and explanation of the concept of authentication. And later, Article 7 discusses the authentication system, and this authentication system is not explained at all what the concept is, it is not in the dictionary. And Article 7(5) speaks of it, and no longer mentioning it in the law of authentication at all but only in the wording, and this one appears in the law of Article 7(5), and it is not explained what it is, it is not in the wording. I have already told the metaregist that it does not correspond to real imagination, which could be neither in the spirit of semantic nor in the spirit of Croatian. Maybe, I suggested, maybe the main register if it's... Article 10 of the Public Register is an official register and it is explained that it is a public register, and Article 6 is said to be a public register for the purpose of coordinating the construction of the State Information Infrastructure... is a public register for the coordination of projects, construction, etc. Is that the same public register or not? It's not clear from this. If it's the same, why isn't it wearing the same name, if it's not the same, then why isn't this term explained, and it's not explained? This one marked by Pro DII's shortcut or someone can read Pro D2, but Pro DII, it's kind of coming out of the text. But there's no explanation for that term. Here we talked about the ownership problem which defines this law where all data is declared to be owned by the Republic of Croatia, but there is a huge problem with software, software owners, IT companies, software maintenance and contracts that the state administration has with such IT companies. For example, it's very important, and they don't all have the same, whether it's sealed code or open code. To change just the head of the county, if you don't have a maintenance contract, and the maintenance contract doesn't need anything, then there's a... mayor who says, I don't want a maintenance contract. You can't come and you can't make a change if this one doesn't come and collect because there may be a closed code, somewhere closed, somewhere open. Work is being arranged. He owns all the data's software somewhere, he's not anywhere. How do you get it all together now? And all of a sudden in law we say it's all owned by the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure that's the case, it needs to be checked, and actually, right now, there's an expression here that everything in the state administration needs to be standardised, and it's not standardised. It is not standardised, take contracts with IT, so you will see how different they are from each other, from the county of the one in the east to the County of Osijek, from the city of one to the municipality of the other or to the ministry. So many differences that it's insufferable, it should be standardised. No law contains principles, principles are programming. Article 5 of the principles of the development of the State Information Infrastructure are listed. It's some kind of program principle. When, a little... this may be a fission, but one suggestion. Indeed, Article 22 paragraph 8 does not go backwards when in the Croatian spirit and the Croatian word is only right backwards. It may be a leak, but so much is coming, I don't know what the government's Office of Law does and what laws it lets it look at. If it wasn't for the Parliamentary Legislative Committee, as far as every bill is corrected, that I don't know what kind of pressure that the Government's Office of Law does to miss everything and everything. This law seems unnecessarily to me in this form, but one such name would be very much needed for another law, for one other content. In fact, there is something unequivocal about Croatia's ownership and what the law should and by law might call this information infrastructure to be processed and returned to state property and formally because the DTK digital telecommunications channels are owned by the Republic of Croatia and not available to them. During the comparative predatorial act in 2000 and some year the separation of Croatian mail to telecommunications by the DTK, which invested 4 billion euros, which is owned by the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people, is being treated by private companies as if they were their own rather than the Republic of Croatia. A law is necessary for such a thing that will restore this to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people, then at least we would be less in debt for 4 billion euros plus interest in 10, 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84643	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, you've brought out all the inaccuracies. I'll try to answer a few of them. First, the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Family Law not to list any further are all laws that have principles at the outset. At the beginning of the law, nomotechnics follow the principles, and they are subsequently elaborated in the normative part of the law. Furthermore, the contract itself on the purchase of real estate in Croatia does not mean anything to third parties or it means very little to them. The real estate deal concerns me as the buyer, the real estate owner, the IRS, the land books, and that story with the contract stops. All other third parties are concerned about the ownership list, the extract from the land books. With an extract from land books, we in the Republic of Croatia prove property of real estate because property of real estate is acquired except in several exceptional cases in the Republic of Croatia by enrolling in land books. Now you're wondering why I'm interpreting the basics of real law to you right now. Because the central books are a register, a register that is networked, a register that is connected and just by passing this law public institution in the Republic of Croatia will connect you with land books and then neither HEP nor cities, municipalities, counties, etc. they will not have to ask for a real estate purchase contract because they will be able to determine who owns the property with two clicks in their information systems. Now that's why this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84645	Thank you, too. Answer, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84646	When we talk about principles, my colleague Grbin, this law and 22 articles are being edited and we should arrange a serious information space, a serious problem in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm just going to read you the principles to see if it should be in the law. Availability, systematic development of information infrastructure item 2. Let me be told by the promoter what the systematic development of the information structure, the systematic protection and security of the information structure, the unity of development management, is all inconclusive. There's no need for this fill-in of unnecessary content. Interoperability, scalability, let's explain what it is and why it needs to be inside. But that is why we have where Article 22 is not accepted to shorten the time limit for public sector bodies that do not keep official records in electronic form are obliged to transfer them to electronic form, it takes them even two years. What's he gonna do for two years? That should be more clearly defined in the law, not two years to wait. It is also two years that public sector bodies are obliged to coordinate their data with authentic data from established registers. Two years again. So what will they do for two years? I know it's a lot of work, I know, but it's finally someone to start and work in this country something, not just platforms to give or public sector bodies are required within three months of establishing a mega-registration register of the same. Imagine here for three months, here I would give a lot more space because this is a big job. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84647	Thank you, colleague Maric. Next replica Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84648	You said a lot in your debate, I just have to comment. You mixed the document in electronic form, talking about those e-mails and those, from the electronic document. That's two different things. I do if I print out my birthmothers and I have the data that was born in so many hours this, mother this, daddy this, it's a document in electronic form. If he has an electronic signature on him and everything you mentioned that he didn't need authentication, verification, etc. Then it's an electronic document. And we have a special Law on the Electronic Correction which in its Article 2 shows that the electronic document has the same legal power as the document and guarantees the application of each other. I hope you understand therefore the very information as such and what information is in a legal sense, so anything that is digitized or digital is not necessarily a digital electronic document and therefore I have to have this authentication, verification, electronic signatures and everything else. If you were an e-citizen and you'd see the one that I specifically mentioned to my colleague, the Mlakara printout has down there an entire electronic signature to key and some other technical stuff. About the principle of super important principles, the system of e-taxes developed and did not apply either scalability or interoperability well, and then you happened to be able to access the e-tax from a certain version of the Internet Explorer. If you're using any other browser, I don't know Chrom, Mozilla anything, there's no e-tax for you. That's why principles are important, and that's why they have to stand up to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84649	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84650	My colleague Lugaric, whenever a bill of law is set, then I warn along the way not some other negative phenomenon. Because I have to connect to warn you of something. I therefore took the opportunity on purpose that this name of the law should only be in accordance with what the Republic of Croatia has to adopt, and that is the Law on ownership of DTK that private multinational companies use for their own purpose, in their interest at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. If it were private property, a private person would've protected it. When it comes to this law, it is completely unnecessary for all of this to function as defined. All of this can work without this law. And let me be told what this law allows without being able to do without it. Nothing. If we were an orderly country like us, this law shouldn't. And that's why we need to make up laws, not make up laws. Only that the existing laws and existing regulations and everything under existing laws and existing regulations can be regulated and done all of what this law provides and in particular contains nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84651	And the last replica of Davor's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84652	Thank you very much. A colleague of Marić's you headed for the debate and then you got the immediate interpretations of our colleagues from the SDP which we didn't understand so where all the principles exist in the laws, we heard in the Family Law, we didn't only hear in which. Because the Republic of Croatia as a rare country in the world, according to the Constitutional Court, has two Family Laws which are called the same and which regulate the same matter but in different ways. So then we heard that we don't understand what digital data is and what it is. And you've probably been using examples to point to the illogicalness and to the illogicality of the regulation, so I'll just add, in accordance with your debate, that we're illustrating how elaborate this regulation is that it's not really talking about information infrastructure, but about everything else that's just going to make sense of how illogical it is. So in basic terms where it is spoken, let's say that the authentic data, the data that is sourced and credible, is as such defined by law or is derived from the purpose of establishing a public register by law. It's now a little complicated what used to be the definition of authenticity but it's simply a logical completely pointless definition. And then he says that the basic register is a public register where he collects and manages at least one authentic data. If we had a register containing at least one authentic data, that's another pointless argument because having a register for one thing, I think it's the opposite of the logic of keeping a register. But these are just examples of why this law is the way it is and in this form we don't need to bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84653	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84654	Thank you very much. Well, you've already said to your colleague that their observation that you don't understand, this replica of yours shows how much you understand. Well, it's just a misunderstanding and it can say without any analysis that this law is an excellent solution and that it will solve all the difficulties. I will repeat so many undefined, or vaguely defined terms, so many concepts that appear in the text of the law itself and are not explained in the terms in the introduction of the law. It all came down almost to principles and only three, four pages of text. And the main one is not solved because one article says it will become something owned by the Republic of Croatia that is not proven to be property. Imagine when one law and we witness that any legal solutions lead to the lawsuit and subsequent damage both to the Republic of Croatia and to the state budget. Yes, even the rules that are passed are at fault, misread and ultimately at the expense of the budget. We are witnessing how much the Ministry of the Interior is suing the Republic of Croatia for misapplication. But this law isn't, it doesn't fit the content name. I publicly ask if the state information infrastructure DTK, is this information infrastructure? It's not? That doesn't belong in the infrastructure? Of course, because you gave it up, you gave up 4 billion euros for private interest. Do not consider digital, telecommunications digital channels State infrastructure is already against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84655	Thank you. And, finally, Deputy Minister, here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's only a short time after a long debate. It seems important to me in the law he's asked, we've actually asked a fundamental question and the fundamental difference is whether the law is needed or whether the law is not needed to regulate this surely complex matter. It seems that the government remains of course with, defends, and I think it has managed to defend the the thesis that the law is needed and through, precisely its fundamental purpose, legal regulation of the entire information infrastructure of the state, I stress the entire information infrastructure of the state through the integration of now divided subsystems that are related to individual information, information electronic solutions into a unique, unique system. So it seems to me that it's a logic that justifies legal intervention and legal, and the adoption of this law, which, by a large scale, is not large, which is really complex and which is legally not easy to write what these discussions have just shown today. Of course, this law is only one legal basis for continuing the process of unifying, creating a stable information system. Since legally, someone was speaking, and indeed with complete right of speaking legally, they have this, it has perfection in this law. Yes, to remain only on it, but the Government is planning and you have seen only one very complex law enforcement regulation, and it was also unnecessary to stop at only such an intervention through the regulation because again they would not get a full system without intervention in specific legislation and to eliminate a whole series of unnecessary solutions that burden and require citizens and legal persons to prove something and to adopt documents to which, under the General Administrative Procedure Act, they are not bound, but they are unfortunately under specific legislation. How truly follow-up will of course be in, not only in legal but also in real intervention, or in the real continuation of this process. The process does not stop with this law, the dynamics of harmonisation moves through the bodies, the bodies are obliged to comply with this law within a relatively short period of time. And what every phase of further intervention, legislative intervention after and the establishment of this system, every contribution to the system must be clarified to the citizens. Well, perhaps the best illustration is always this, and if that is and is not part of this system, this is that since 10 June of this year in the system of e-Citizens with good promotion, the well-acquainted citizens of 40,000 users are registered. It seems to us that this law is very good for gradual alignment, to begin harmonising to standardise administrative behaviour. I will not do so, he as the regulation concerning the most informational issues and issues and areas, will not do so without intervention in further interventions, further modernisation of the state itself, and then the entire public administration. That's how you'd... I'd beg and like you to experience it, so support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84657	Thank you too, Deputy. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the deputy with the associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84658	Final proposal of the State Information Infrastructure Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 653; The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted by a respected representative, Marija Lugaric. I'd like the Secretary of the Honorable Arsen Bauk to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84659	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84660	It becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement to the Final Proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 92 voted in favour, 18 votes against and 3 abstentions were passed by Law P.Z. No. 653 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84661	We continue with - Final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 571 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Introductory deputies? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The enforcement system is a system of forced collection of legally established claims which the State is obliged to ensure, or implement, its collection, in order to ensure that the rule of law works and that the conditions for economic activity and for encouraging the entrepreneurship climate are guaranteed in the end line. The 2012 executive law completed the existing executive system of the new rules, so-called the Agency’s performance, in particular, has enabled the implementation of the exercise on the basis of certain documents in order to achieve the cash demand on the financial assets of the contractors through direct application to the Financial Agency, and based on the availability of OIB data and data from the Single Account Register without the need to engage the Court. These amendments we are proposing now stem from the need to redefine and remove those legal institutes that continue to slow down the executive procedure and to introduce new solutions that will ensure the conditions for achieving the effectiveness of the executive procedure with less costs and in a shorter time, and of course with the preservation of legal certainty and the rule of law. In short, the amendments we have proposed are called upon to ensure the rights of the parties to be informed of the rights they have and the obligations they have in the executive procedure, in particular in the extrajudicial exercise. We have determined that delivery in the executive procedure is carried out on the so-called so-called so-called so-called delivery procedure. a secure address, i.e. that address entered in the register, in the register, or in other official records, and thus we try to prevent the abuses that occurred to be actually indicated in the executive proposals of the address that the executive actually has control over. We introduce a clear distinction between the costs incurred by the executive procedure and those which can be predicted if the procedure will continue, and precisely to know how much the cost of the executive procedure will be if the demand is settled within the time limit for voluntary fulfilment and how much it will cost for forced collection. Of course the cost will be higher. There is also a warning that an executive procedure will be carried out in those accounts that we receive as natural persons, so there it will be indicated that unless a request is paid within the time limit of maturity that an executive procedure can be initiated. We also consider it necessary to impose an obligation on the parties to notify themselves of their rights when objecting and in those situations if they pay the debt after issuing a decision on the performance and the rights of the opening of the protected account, and this should be an integral part of the solution to the performance all in order to avoid issues that were common both, at which point and at which point the protected account should be opened. We have a deadline now in the 30-day law for the transfer of seized assets from the debtor's account to the creditor's account. The deadline would be increased to 60 days, which we believe is not an important increase in terms of the duration of the executive procedure, while guaranteeing the certainty that the perpetrator will be informed of the direct charge and will then be able to respond adequately in terms of opening the protected account. The more effective implementation of real estate enforcement is something that we have particularly dealt with in this proposal, and the real estate enforcement system has not been significantly changed. We're trying to make the whole process more transparent. We are introducing an electronic auction, a non-necessary case, which is therefore operational business in carrying out a real estate operation, which is entrusted to FINA as a body that can help courts in this regard, and we are also dispensing courts from these types of cases that are not necessarily judicial jurisdiction. The sale process is next. Therefore, the invitation to participate in the auction is made through the website of the FINA. FINA gives all real estate information, photos, the time when real estate can be viewed and this period lasts 60 days. Offers are being collected over the next 10 days. The question was, how would the offer be submitted to the one who doesn't have the Internet? In the FINA’s offices there are kiosks in which, with the help of FINA’s staff, such an offer can be drawn up and made. So it's not necessary for a person who's an offerer to have his own Internet. It increases the lower limit for which the property can be sold, so now it's 2/3 of the estimated value of the property. We would increase it to 4/5 at the first auction and at the second auction to 3/5. The aim of this provision is to protect the value of the assets sold in order to settle the demand. What is also important, the value of the property that will be used to determine from its price of subsidisation the search will not be determined by FINA but will, of course, be determined by the court expert and, more importantly, we have drawn up a Regulation on the methodology of the assessment of the value of the property and we hold that it will also make a very important contribution in this segment to the estimated value equally. The important thing is that we also have an eyewitness on real estate and movables. Him, we transfer him from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, in which he was neither very updated nor highly led to the Financial Agency. The measures we continue to take to protect the dignity of the debtors is to ensure that he is in the status of the tenant for a period of one year, if the property sold for the purpose of settling the demand represents the real estate of the one he has and in which he resides and which is necessary to meet the personal housing needs of him and his family members, i.e. the person he is obliged to maintain. In such circumstances, the tenant’s status may be maintained for a period of one year with the obligation to pay the rent, and may also be made possible to the executive if he wishes to enter into such a purchased property immediately so that he can offer another property for his home, so as to provide the contractor with a residential space during that period. We're introducing deadlines for court proceedings on real estate. So, we believe that 15 days to decide on the proposal is enough and that for any further executive action, appropriate court action can be taken within 30 days. In order to prevent undue delay in the proceedings that have taken place in practice in the sense that the case-law file is being forwarded to the High Court, we have arranged a procedural decision on such issues by the Council of First Instance. Therefore, the Court of First Instance of the Council of Three Judges may decide on complaints in the immovable procedure. If the implementation of the implementing act is offered on the second subject, we can add another option. So we allow the execution to be delayed in such a case if it is a real estate operation in which the perpetrator lives and if it is necessary for him to meet the housing needs. This is to protect the perpetrator from carrying out the property if not necessary, if it is a demand that is much less or less than the value of the property and so on. But here it requires the activity of the performer himself, so that during the delay he or she remands his or her assets and settles the claim. The stricter rules are introduced when objecting to a decision on enforcement on the basis of a credible document, we require the public notaries to react and make a decision on the basis of, when acting on the proposal within 30 days and to forward the decision on the implementation within the same time limit. What was particularly in the public's focus between the two discussions was the possibility of further expanding the reasons for the delay in the implementation. Therefore, the exercise can be delayed now and because the Republic of Croatia has declared a disaster as we have witnessed, or if it is an exercise in respect of a claim for whose forced achievement or forced collection is subject to criminal proceedings under official duty. You may recognize this if you know about the case of an Austrian cooperative or Raiffeisen cooperative and a certain number of our citizens who in this case are exposed to the threat of forced collection, and in fact it is a criminal procedure that should be prosecuted under official duty. It is now under this law the reason why the execution can be delayed. We have left the exercise directly with the employer if the employer pays the salary on the bill. I mean, the employer should certainly pay the salary on the bill, but unfortunately, we're witnessing that there are still employers who don't. If they pay their wages on the bill there's no reason why that agency mechanism we've established, so the implementation of the exercise through FINA doesn't come true here. We believe that parallelism in the sense that the performance can be carried out by both the employer and the financial agency is not good. We've had a lot of questions and doubts about it in practice. In any case, the employer will be relieved of the costs he has when carrying out the performance, as well as the perpetrator, and so is the situation in which transparency is secured at a much higher level and we have been deprived of discretionary assessments in dealing with such circumstances. We would have singled out from the law, or would have left the Institute of Probative Declarations or the Passive List of Assets because he did not live in our system at all. In order to ensure or strengthen the protection of workers' rights, we leave the rejection of proposals for implementation in connection with the return of employees to work if it is not well drawn up. Therefore, the situation is now if an employee submits an application for a return to work and has not well drawn it up that the court automatically rejects such a proposal. We will order the courts to invite the employee to correct his proposal properly. The deadline for submission of an application for enforcement on the basis of an executive document requiring the employer to return the employee to work or return him to the service and to carry out the exercise from 30 days to 60 days has been extended. The implementation is fully exempt from gifts for children up to 15 years old, costs for official travel and compensation for the resolution of the consequences of disasters and natural disasters. During the debate, we had numerous enquiries and requests to exclude other receipts, not only those that we have now added gifts to children, expenses for official travel and disaster fees. We have not decided to continue to extend the revenue in the sense that they are entirely excluded from the performance, especially those on which they were insisted, so the compensation for the cost of transport, the various trade union fees paid by the union to the worker. Because we think it's actually about the possibility that, through the restriction of the payload, workers' protection is secured. The person who receives the compensation for the cost of transport receives the salary, and if he receives the salary, then his salary is excluded from the commission, i.e. a limited performance on the part of the salary as a rule of one half of the i.e. Two-thirds. So, two-thirds of the net salary paid in Croatia is about 3666 kuna, is in any case protected from enforcement if it is about the collection of the usual claims. If compensation for physical damages is charged, health benefits, etc. the debtor can protect his half salary, or half the net salary paid in Croatia, so 2750 kuna. And if he's obliged to support the child, then he's only got 1300 kunas left. And we think that graduation is completely justified. But that's what I'm saying in the sense that in the event of the existence of this kind of protection, we don't consider it justified to exempt these costs that are material, but it won't lead to what is the goal, which is that the demand is charged and that, of course, the interest burden arising from what it is over a long period of time. What's important is that we're within the limit of the performance, and this is what I've been talking about, we've brought in other incomes that have the character of permanent income, and these are the fees. And about that, we also had a lot of questions. In view of the number of citizens who receive their income in this way, we believe it is justified and to limit fees partly from the performance as well as salaries. The provisions on fiduciary property in order to protect the opponent of insurance are given the opportunity to propose that the opponent of insurance and to become the full owner of the thing that is secured. Therefore, the option of choice now has only the insurance promoter but we believe that there is no obstacle to the insurance opponent's suggestion that this property be fully taken over in order to ensure demand. We have made it clear, and we have determined how this decision should be drawn up to take advantage of the property in a criminal procedure so that the decision is final. And here we have, in conclusion, made it possible for a subjective change in the executive procedure because we now had the circumstance that if there was a change on the part of the believer, so the person to whom the search was transferred that a new procedure should be initiated, which is unwarranted. The subjective change is possible and it is possible to continue the same executive procedure without the need to start a new one. Here, these are the short changes that we have proposed in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84663	Thank you too, Deputy. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Deputy Minister of yours this brief 17-minute exposure to amendments and additions to the Executive Law actually speaks about how much of the matter has been unarranged before. What you said today is really an improvement compared to before. But what I've come forward for is that you mentioned the Raifeisen Society. In the case of criminal proceedings currently in force and which are against the so-called so-called criminal procedure. Raiffeisen cooperatives, only I would ask if you could tell me and answer the question how long has the performance been done and in connection with the business of the Raiffeisen cooperative? Have you, I won't tell you how many media but we Parliamentarians here in the Parliament have warned of crime in business and so on? Raiffeisen cooperatives. Here, just now there's been a criminal trial, a criminal trial, and in the meantime I think hundreds of people have been executed without any valid or complete reason, or these executions have been so drastic and dramatic that hundreds of people have lost their homes. Well, if you have that information, I'd like to know and hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84665	Will you answer it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84666	I can't answer your question specifically, I can only say that the initiation of a criminal proceedings means that there is a reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has been committed. Is it really a crime or is it not me I will certainly not prejudge from this position, but it is certainly a general matter, not only in that case, of the justification that the reason for the postponement of the exercise is the circumstance that it is a suspicion of a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84667	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of HNS representative Vesna Sabolic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84668	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected deputy ministers, the Honorable Vice-President of the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats' Assembly will accept these amendments and additions to the law, the Implementing Law for several reasons and I will only count some. First, because amendments and amendments to the law introduce mechanisms, some mechanisms to protect citizens who have found themselves in a situation of conduct and not their own fault. You know that according to FINA, 270 thousand citizens have blocked accounts, of which only the state only makes a debt of 2.5 billion kuna and another billion and a half kuna of interest goes to it. Most of the citizens blocked the banks and the debt amounts to over 7 billion kuna plus interest and plus the cost of the execution. And what amount are these amounts we can only assume if we know or take into account the indication that for a debt of 10 kuna the costs of the exercise can reach up to 1000 kuna. According to the same indicators, it is also known that 52,000 citizens have a debt of less than 2000 kuna which these citizens cannot repay from their incomes, mainly due for supplementary insurance, local utility, telecom operators, notebooks, court warlocks, etc. Every other blocked citizen owes up to 10 thousand kunas from which it is quite clear that it is people who cannot cover their basic cost of life or may not have returned some small loans. In any case, it is not a matter of waste and speculators who have spent beyond their means, and therefore we are very pleased that a certain mechanism of protection of the weak, or those who are unable to repay these small small debts is in place in this law. Furthermore, firm deadlines and warning institutes are introduced, i.e. the obligation to send a solution to debtors, i.e. to warn them that the exercise will be carried out so as not to happen as a boredom so that those solutions are not delivered to debtors at all. It is then introduced that cases must, as we have heard, be conducted before the courts and the councils are introduced before the first-degree courts in order to resolve as little cases as possible at a higher level or to make any fewer complaints. A newspaper that prevents excessive debt growth due to interest is also introduced to prevent or better say changes to the law reduces the possibility of speculative real estate sales under the roof by introducing transparency through electronic auctions. The law also introduces the possibility of delaying the exercise, and we have now heard of it in justified cases, in cases or until the end of the criminal proceedings, if the right to enforcement is exercised by the basis of illegal practices. There are also opportunities for exemption from the exercise when it comes to some incomes such as gifts for children and other examples we have heard from the deputy minister. The new provisions will also facilitate the confiscation of illegally acquired property benefits identified in criminal proceedings that we also hold with a very important newspaper. It is also introduced that the fees that are the sole income of the debtor cannot be completed or placed in the same position as the salaries and pensions, and we keep it good. So, the club of HNS advocates supports the proposal to amend the executive law because it brings more effective, faster, cheaper, and I would say less painful or painless procedure because in some ways it has one dose of humanity, so to speak, does not strike just as hard on the dignity of the debtor or man as it has been the case so far. Of course, it is the task of the law to introduce order and ensure discipline, but given the enormous responsibility of citizens for the reasons we all know about, it is very important that the law still has these mechanisms for protecting the most vulnerable and sensitive groups of citizens and therefore the HNS club will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84669	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues. In relation to the first reading of the Implementing Law proposal, this final proposal of the law has many adopted remarks and proposals to correct and improve certain provisions of this law. In particular, I mean the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of Real Estates and all those inappropriate images when the police from their houses or apartments represent debtors and family members, especially children and older people. We all agree that debts, i.e. loans, must be paid back, but forced evictions on the street create a terrible picture of a state that is defined by the Constitution as a social state. The draft law has proposed a better solution to the implementation of the property, which allows the delay of the implementation in particularly justified reasons, so that it can use the real estate within up to one year. This is provided for in Article 37 relating to the property in which it resides and which is necessary to meet its basic housing needs and persons legally required to maintain. Article 39 provides for what property cannot be subject to an enforcement which is specifically prescribed by law to be carried out in order to achieve monetary demand against craftsmen cannot be carried out on a property in which it is located within the scope necessary to meet the basic housing needs. Although so far in the basic provisions of the law, it has been prescribed that the implementation of the law will ensure that the performance is as painful and as unfavourable as possible for the perpetrators in practice that a lower amount of debt has made the sale of property worth much more. Due to the lack of information from potential real estate customers, the executive procedure does not sell because the sale is carried out in a... circle of non-transparent participants. The process is now being introduced by the financial agency through an electronic real estate auction and by providing detailed information on the real estate that is sold. In the past, the exercise was carried out to only collect the debt to the believer and did not care how much the owner loses the property in relation to the real value of the property. As a result of such unfair provisions, it is now possible for an perpetrator, i.e. the debtor, within the prescribed time limit, to request the court to postpone the application on the assumption that the debt will be fully settled from some other asset. As for the problem of implementation and sale of real estate, I personally think there are too many players, courts, public notebooks, and now FIN, that the procedure is quite slow and ineffective and that perhaps the best solution would be unique executive courts that would carry out all kinds of enforcement without long procedures that some countries like Finland have. Article 40 proposes a provision which determines how the value of the property is determined by the court and assessors, using rules in the area of spatial arrangement in the way in which the value of the property is assessed, the way data is collected and real estate assessment methods. Given the current application of real estate valuations, such as cases... and Mountains, it is important that the evaluations are conducted according to regulations and not to anyone's benefit or damage. In the case of a real estate problem, there is also a need to talk about the reasons that lead citizens to the purpose of their real estate. In particular, this applies to the relations of banks and citizens, the loans taken for the purchase of apartments, cars or the construction of a house whose amounts are certainly not small. Of course, the desire and need for a young family to have a settled housing issue, to have a car to go to work with, and to have a 21st - century standard. And it's all good when it's done, while it's being paid and I can regularly settle all the obligations of such a household, but by the coming crisis, especially when it lasts too long, it all turns upside down. And there should not be too much blame on banks that do what they do, sell their products, offer loans on a daily basis under certain conditions, and it is up to citizens to accept or not accept loans under such conditions. We have an example of a Swiss, at the time of taking credit, the course was very favourable, better than the euro, but no one thought it could and fly to the sky and then there was a disaster, the exchange rate grew enormously, the job was lost, the credit could no longer be paid, and there were too many problems for such a family. There have been reverse cases in the past. In the '70s, in the '80s, housing loans were also raised, but big inflation came, so credit wars amounted to the value of a pack of cigarettes. Today... a bank in big troubles because they can't charge all the paid loans and it's their big fault. The question is whether they took enough care of the credit ability or stared at it in one eye, spinning their large assets, and making a big profit. Each citizen is incapacitated if he has to guarantee for a loan his sole real estate, because the loss of real estate has been markedly compromised by all the Constitution guaranteeed social, family, human rights or his creditworthiness only depends on the job, or the wages he may lose at any time. And the pensioners are in a difficult situation. For decades, housing, electricity, water, gas, and other directors regularly covered their costs, and now they cannot do without 2.3 medicines that often have to pay because they are not on the free list. They spend on a diet what little remains. There are also those who have had to retire early, still finance their children's education in colleges, and there are many who support their unemployed children and grandchildren. Retirement office data show that every other pensioner has a pension of up to 2,000 kuna, that as many as three quarters have up to 3,000 kuna. Such pensions are becoming increasingly difficult to settle, so they are forced to raise their survival loans or are even subject to the payment of the HRT tax. There were a lot of cases when their entire pensions were completed and thus ran out of any means to live. By the beginning of 2013, this was possible because the pensioners in the non-exit situation in the public notary signed their consent to the entire pension, regardless of the fact that they had an open protective account and what was not possible under the Executive Act. The public record was even stronger than the Executive Act. Following the HSU's parliamentary question, the Ministry of Finance developed a Regulation on the execution of funds no longer possible for the entire salary or pension, but up to one third at the most. We also proposed that such a ban be entered into the Executive Act, and in Article 202. I quote "Agreement allowing the severance of wages or other permanent income for an amount excluded from the application does not produce any more legal effects". It has been unacceptable so far in the implementation of the procedure for the implementation of the procedure that the debtor for the performance without any warning or solution finds out only when all his accounts are blocked, when he cannot be defended, when he cannot object or request a postponement. The proposed amendments to Article 8 shall therefore be amended accordingly. The implementing law introduces the obligation to deliver to the address listed in the MAP’s records and access to such data will be provided to judges, public notaries by electronic means. In addition, the final draft of the law introduces other provisions aimed at removing certain weaknesses and achieving faster and greater effectiveness of all these procedures of enforcement. The HSU Club has made an amendment to Article 59 of the final draft of the law in which we propose that three more be added at the expense of a dozen costs excluded from the application. First, the cost of a separate life, secondly, the cost of transport to and from work, and thirdly, the use of union social assistance. At the end of this debate, I regret that this too important law and its improvements cannot hear more than 300 thousand citizens under the roof. The HSU Club supports this final proposal of the Executive Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84671	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84672	Dear Vice President, the remaining colleagues and colleagues, 11 brave, magnificent were only 7. It's really a shame that one of these laws is being discussed in these evenings, that the thing is more serious, it's another reading of the law. I would take this opportunity to get to know the public a little bit that can't see this, but maybe with a verbal surrender it comes to a few of the initiatives we've received and we think they're so serious that we should use the Assembly's pay phone to talk about them. One letter from the Association blocked that I believe most of you have received in its boxes, which is unfortunately an association with a large increase in the number of its members who sent an open letter to MPs, among other things the President of the Croatian Parliament in which he seeks, appealed to MPs to vote against this law because that law represents a final ruling in the loss of their only property in which they live, which was a guarantee of their credit responsibilities which not always because of their own, own guilt or weaknesses were not able to pay. Since I am one of those who received this letter, I believe it is my duty to warn the promoter of the situation in which it is located using their data about 300 thousand Croatian citizens whose accounts have been blocked, whose property has been blocked, which is the subject of the exercise, which is de facto four times the only property these people have and without which their own perspective will not say that it is questionable, but that it is impossible. Here for those who may not have seen this letter, I must say that it is a letter and a warning and an earthquake and that we, as parliamentary representatives, have no right, we have no moral right to ignore the cry of 320 thousand of our fellow citizens who are actually on the verge of implementation by the Executive Law. I will also say we cannot ignore the fact that the state is operating under certain rules, but the state must take care of its citizens regardless of what other institutions and regulations must respect, the state must find ways to help people in need. As the state managed to be inspired, I would say overnight, that in the executive law, as reasons for delaying the execution, it also introduces elemental disasters, probably driven by the last floods that occurred, and also that state must have hearing when it comes to a large group of people in similar problems and cannot take into account the fact that they are on the verge of existence, I say not always by their own guilt. Although we can't rule out that some of them are in that position because of their own recklessness. But because of those, I don't think we can ignore the help of everyone else. Other information that we have and which I would also say is equally alarming is the fact that for the past 10 years, traces and tails of a large affair have been drawn which in our media is guessing that it weighs more than 350 million euros. This is the fact that in Croatia, savings-credit cooperatives have been doing business, I will say the shortest illegal. The savings-credit cooperatives which had not been authorised by the Croatian National Bank or by the Ministry of Finance or by the financial agency or by the HANFA were not authorised to work, in particular not to carry out credit operations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But despite that fact, they were actually doing these jobs. And these savings-credit cooperatives are the cause or outcome of this affair, which is said to be 350m euros, they were giving interest loans, most often, or the only condition, so they were paid in a speech of money with certain fees not in banking institutions but who knows where. The only condition was that you owned the property you had to guarantee for your obligations. And after 10 years of all the illegal transactions that took place have ended with an executive procedure, real estate executions, and now at this level of nearly 350m euros that have brought one part of our citizens back to a standstill. In the debate after, or in the first reading of the law, we proposed to the Government to find a way to resolve a part of those debtors or perpetrators and we believe that this is possible. We have proposed a norm under which the enforcements resulting in this case of criminal offences that have occurred specifically related to savings and credit cooperatives cannot be implemented or implemented until the criminal proceedings have been completed and the criminal proceedings against some of these savings-credit cooperatives have been conducted in the Republic of Austria, and until the manner and validity of their conduct has finally been established. In the media, you will find statements from lawyers of some of these citizens who have gone along with the process of establishing the integrity of such credit agreements but to date our institutions have not brought any right to the issue. I think that today, faced with the crisis we have been in for many years, faced with the fact that an increasing number of citizens become the subject of an executive procedure, we cannot close our eyes to these facts and cannot act solely in the best intention of protecting the credentials or concrete contractual obligations, not taking care of everything that has led to this situation in society. Therefore, it seems logical for us to exclude in the Implementing Law the possibility of carrying out the property that was now proven to be legally questionable or even illegal business of these financial institutions or savings-credit cooperatives. And finally, as an observation of what we think is important, we remember all the problems with the Public Executive Act and the fact that this job is over. In view of the fact that the transactions transferred to the FINA, we have a proposal for the Government to make adjustments in Article 55 of this proposal in relation to the solutions in Article 132.c, which refers to the exemption from the implementation of the amount to be paid to the FINA by the executives and buyers at the electronic auctions on the name of the real estate purchase, the advance of the costs of the FINA and the guarantee to be paid to the auctionee and the purchasers at the FINA's electronic auctions of real estate, which are themselves under the FINA's own expense on their accounts, enables them to avoid the implementation of the implementation of the FINA's assets on behalf of the purchase of the real estate, the advance of the FINA and the guarantees for access to electronic auctioning of the property. In fact, the electronic auction of real estate as defined in this law leaves the possibility that you cannot participate in the auction, in what is said in real time and that you cannot bid on offers which is an integral and necessary part of the execution of each auction. So we think that this solution that is now in the Executive Law needs to be amended so that the rules on auctioning this time in electronic form can be implemented in the best possible way. Once again I will conclude, the Implementing Law, we are fully aware of its technical needs and implementation. We don't think it can be passed without taking care of the citizens who are placed in an impossible position under this law. It's about, I said, two categories. One of them has been blocked, over 300,000 people who have also filed a request for the Constitutional Court to demonstrate the constitutionality of the law. Others are the victims of the illegal work of savings-credit cooperatives at a time when they took advantage of the opportunity to act and do business the way they did in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In neither of these cases, our institutions have made final decisions. And on one thing and another, the first one has to be shown by the Constitutional Court, and the second one of our institutions is familiar with the malfeasances, so to speak in lending some of the needs of citizens, our institutions have not yet answered any questions yet. We know that procedures are being conducted, and we know that the DORH has been investigating this whole network of relationships, but until today, there is no final solution. This is why we propose that we find an opportunity for these people to be able to end all these disputed ones, I would say assumptions about the implementation of the executive procedure, and thus to protect people from perhaps unfair application of the law, and often people have not been responsible for the situations in which they have found themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84673	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. Vesna Saboliæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84674	Dear colleague, I fully agree that we must take care of such a large number of blocked ones. That's what she said three times the number because it's about holders, property owners, and family members seem almost Croatian citizens to me, and that's why I think you really have the right to say that we should take care of it. However, I think that this law is just dealing with a good part of this problem by introducing this newspaper that says that the implementation of all procedures that are in the process of solving, or criminal proceedings will be delayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84675	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84676	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'd love to, I'm glad you brought that up, I'd like to hear it from the promoter that we don't have any special preconditions for postponing the commission in cases where there are criminal offences. What I've come up for, they're not blocked, the blockers' association isn't about real estate, so this number doesn't really matter that way. 300 to 320 thousand are blocked current accounts of citizens, so we can't multiply them as families that are related to their properties. So it's two equally difficult situations, unfortunately, but different if you want the nature of these debt relations. In one case, the accounts are blocked, the current accounts of citizens who are unable to meet their credit obligations, and in the other case, the one I was talking about, where there is a suspicion of criminal acts in credit business are blocked real estate and go into effect and are most often sold at a significantly lower value than the one that is the real value of these properties. It's something that the ministry predicted in the first reading of the law, so the possibility of not being the property being the only guarantee of payment of the obligation but that you can replace it with some other value which is significantly smaller, but enough to settle claims. However, we now propose that all that is the subject of criminal proceedings be the reason that these properties cannot be carried out until the criminal proceedings have reached their final solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84677	Thank you. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84678	Thank you very much. A colleague, Mlakar, spoke about cooperatives that approved loans in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in one way that did not have a legal framework. Interesting that it's been going on for years, it's not just a month or two, for years, that the Central Bank hasn't responded to that at all. It is not known exactly how many loans totalm euros or hundreds of million euros or maybe a billion euros are granted in such a way. The bank does not know how much it is due and how much more the citizens are obliged and how much greater the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is. She didn't do anything. In a report that was here the other day, there's not a word about these loans, about that way of lending. There's no word in the report. There was no question of credit related to the Swiss franc, nor was there a billion euros in statistical error in the balance of payments, there was no question why a billion kunas of profits were not paid into the budget. Not a word was said about why the unemployment rate was 350,000, why GDP was falling. All that was in the report was only at the statistical level and, behold, the report was unanimously accepted, although not unanimous, one vote was against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84679	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84680	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Maric remembered me as something called a chain of happiness or a happy line, and it seems that some kind of legality of such action repeats it every number of years. What I'm talking about here is I have to say that regardless of the best intentions of our presidency, it's unfortunate that I don't use some harsh word that we use about these problems of our fellow citizens, and now try to calculate what number we're discussing today at 9 p.m. in an almost empty assembly. This is a subject that deserves a serious debate, I would seriously say the interest and involvement of the public in these problems. However, what you said, nor did our institutions react, the problem of savings-credit cooperatives is at least 15 years old. If there were no individual groups damaged by such business, let alone the Croatian public would not know what it was about. If it hadn't been for the Frank Association, we wouldn't have come to a solution that at least made it a little easier for those who had loans in Swiss francs. So it takes this extra dose and help to get the institutions started. My question is why do we put such topics at 9 p.m. in the Parliament so that I don't talk about this phenomenal principle that parliamentary sessions are not transmitted at this time, because what we're talking about tomorrow, the Croatian public won't know anything more than she knew by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84681	Thank you. I'm obliged to give an explanation. Namely, the public of the work of the Parliament and your debates are available to all citizens, and why there are no MPs in the assembly we have talked about many times already. So, every one of us's consciences. ... I felt the need to give you an explanation, because you called the presidency. ... [[You can't hear it.]] Well, I think it's more about citizens' content than maybe pictures, fellow Mesic. [[You can't hear it.]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84682	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act and, before I say anything about the content itself, I would like to introduce the particularly resolute ministry which has been here after a long period of years and attempts and some desire to satisfy, above all, the interests of the believer or that in some way the debtors themselves have found one balance, found some measure in which the demands will be completed, the believers calmed down, but that the dignity of the debtor will not be lost, nor will his property be executed beyond what was possible in the previous legislative solutions. So, as I said, there was a time when we had the believers playing the last hole, so they didn't respect the court decisions, and no one cared about it because the execution didn't come at all or very slowly. There were different obstacles to the performance. The performances could also be opposed by such a person who could pay for it, but because of the ineffectiveness and weakness of the system, it simply mocked the system itself. This is also an opportunity to say that in this religious and debt relationship that was not meant to arise, it was often also by the guilt of the creditors themselves, and often by the banks themselves. That's what we're talking about here with these loans that are easily granted, and that's what the believers themselves are for, that's what we're talking about. the financial institutions are well-measured and suspect that they will not be settled at a specified time or in an adequate manner. And good to the greater extent that the state itself was involved in. We will not speak now, but often, so what the debtors were falling into in such a single burden most often and not by their own guilt when they were left without their job. But I will also point out in the introduction that what I said earlier in relation to the believers themselves should not run away from responsibility or raise it, but every debate we have and every legislative solution must go on to raise the responsibility of all the participants, to take care of business and civil morality at all, especially when it comes to such religious and debt relations. I'm going to say it again, point out, because I think it's the greatest value of this bill, so that he's expressing, he's not ignoring that basic message of his that the demands of the believers must be satisfied. But he also takes care of the social status of debtors. What is most interesting are the most important changes in this subject, said the proposer herself, i.e. the representative of the motionary, Ms. Deputy. However, I will repeat what is most important, that the basis for payment and the establishment of clear procedural rules beyond the court order is extended. Then, to introduce something that was also necessary to make it right, which is to speed up real estate procedures. But also the impediment to conduct a real estate execution whose value multiplely exceeds the amount of demand for which the executive procedure is conducted. So far, it has been possible to sell a million kuna worth of real estate to settle the demand of 10 000 kuna. And that's something that wasn't fair, and that's exactly what this bill makes impossible. What is also very important, and this has caused a lot of public awareness and the occasion of some other legal matters, which is that the court will assess the property in the process and in the way that it is specifically prescribed, based on an assessment of an independent court expert or assessor. As a whole, it is taken into account that more procedural discipline is being strengthened, and this will certainly lead to greater efficiency of the executive procedures. What was once considered in these earlier amendments to the Executive Act, and great hope was placed precisely in the Institute of the Passive List of Assets and Probative Declarations, however, it did not revive. She did not evoke, so we can openly say that she is not only a party but rather a court has not accepted her to such an extent. It kind of dragged him away from other jobs. And so instead of intervening the court in an executive procedure that wanted to speed up the executive procedure, it was nevertheless that the best thing to do was to leave the institute and leave what is now this proposal. To take care of the social component, this is seen in Article 59 as it is precisely protecting those most vulnerable groups of society, children, to exclude the implementation of the amounts to support a child paid into a special bank account, a gift for children, and that of 15 years of age. The amount of fees for official travel and compensation for the recovery of the consequences of disasters and natural disasters shall be excluded. And by doing so, the government directly responds to these troubles and accidents that have hit our fellow citizens. The addition of the provisions in Article 60 shall provide for the possibility of applying the provisions on the restriction of enforcement and, where the exercise is carried out on the income of non-income, pensions or receipts from the carrying out of the independent activity of crafts, free occupations, from agriculture, forestry, from property and property rights, from capital as well as from insurance. This is the other income according to specific regulations and have the character of permanent and only monetary incomes only if the performer demonstrates to the public that the receipts referred to in this paragraph have the character of permanent and single monetary incomes. This has caused a lot of controversy in our practice. Here, I think that this final draft of the law amending and supplementing the executive law as we consider it at the SDP club will fulfill that basic message and the purpose of this law to carry out judicial judgments but not to the detriment of debtors, or when it does not exceed that of his duty that has happened so often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84683	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, this little esteemed colleague and colleague. This is an extremely important law and is especially passed in a particularly sensitive time. At a time when so many people in an extremely bad situation are socially threatened, in one depressing time and therefore need to be very careful with such legislation and it would be good to bring with the support of all MPs. It is good and there is great progress compared to first reading, and great progress is usually made by this proposal. It is good that it is accepted that the exercise cannot be carried out during the proceedings or while there is an investigation and there are only a few other small things which, in my opinion, would, if it could be done to ensure that there is no reason not to support such a law. A fellow Mlakar had already spoken on behalf of the club and made certain suggestions, they were accepted from the first reading of one, but what is important to emphasize although I had just before had legal instructions on the principles that were incorporated into the laws just now in a law where no principles were justified as needed and here perhaps the principles should be incorporated. But it's not a big handicap that doesn't have them, but if there's a principle of morality that needs to be implemented somewhere, then it's in this executive law. I don't know what's worse, being a debtor or a believer? I don't know what's worse under these conditions that we're in? I don't know what's worse, pay more than you owe or not charge what you're looking for? I don't know what's worse. But the law must not allow it to be charged to anyone more than it is due and must not make it impossible for them to collect what they ask for. And that's how boredom, unfortunately, was. And I believe this law will never make it possible again. The tasks are necessary for a number of reasons, and we need to distinguish between doing so over those who do not want to pay. It's just that there are people who don't want to pay, and I don't care about the dignity of the debtor at all. Imagine not wanting, boasting, being arrogant, still returning invoices for the services done and then making everything impossible. The dignity of such ones does not matter to me; they violate the dignity of those other believers. There are also those who are in debt, they can't pay because most of their liquid assets have been transferred to some other legal person or physical person, and then they've brought themselves to the situation that they're not able to pay. But there are also those, most unfortunately, who have been brought into such a situation that they cannot pay their obligations under various circumstances have come into such situations, but they are not able to even maintain what is necessary for, which is worthy of man and of life's needs, or direction, let alone his own debt. And that's what these groups should be different about. When I am specifically speaking for the commendation that you added to the article 59 to some categories that are excluded from the performance, these are costs for child support, expenses for official travel, gifts for children up to 15 years of age, compensation for solving the consequences of disaster damage, but I think there is room and therefore I have submitted the amendment, for several other items that really have no connection with regular receipts, but which are costs for the exact purpose, i.e. the exact means and that they should not be touched with the purpose. The cost of transport may be treated as an integral part of the salary, but if it is carried out he will not have the costs for the transport from work and to work. Field supplement, he's not plus pay, he's being spent, he can't be on the ground and he can't spend any more on the regular. He's not made up by accident. The compensation for a separate life, trade union and social assistance, so they are given just when a man is socially endangered, he is threatened with existence, and then on such a unional, union effort because it is an effort and a union organization if he gives help, I think we should exclude such from doing so. Maritime supplement, imagine what it's like to be a seaman who has a maritime supplement, so that's what's done to him. Support for the disability of workers, support for the death of workers or family members, gifts and help for children, for example a gift for a newborn child, so who can do so does not enter the gift until the child is 15 years old. This is a gift for a newborn child, or support for a child in the event of the death of a parent. I could've done more, but I kept on doing this much. I think there's room here for these separations to be extra, to be excluded from those funds that can be completed. In Article 67, I only suggest adding a "legislative verdict" behind the word "delivery" because the execution could also be carried out on the basis of a judgment of power, think about it a little bit, if possible. And when you spoke of the exemption, you changed Article 197 and now this article 61 says the words "pay pay" are replaced by the words "no pay at the bank's expense". You hereby amend the legal provision for non-compliance with the law and that is not a good solution. No one has the right on any basis to pay a salary to a bank, or to pay it in any other way, it has no legal foothold, and now a legal solution is required for those who do not comply with the law, or who do not pay the bank's bill, but are paid in cash, but it was a long time ago when it was possible, but then it was done in a different way with the SDK but unfortunately we left one of the best financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And when payment traffic was an example of payment traffic, not in Croatia, in the world because SDK was indeed, now this, please don't do it for those who break the law. And they break the law because no one has the right to do it. Given the time and the time to wait for us, I won't be long, but here I would support the law if you would accept it in just a few small things, unless you're disturbing the essence and intent of the law itself and all the legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84685	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Maric, no matter what nine hours it is, someone's still listening to your argument. You have spoken of principles, indeed the executive law itself does not contain a lot of principles, but it does contain. For example, one of them is what you've talked about quite a bit, which is to protect the dignity of the debtor or to protect the activities of the legal person. And these two principles are extremely important and connected, because they speak of something that is regulated by this law in real estate enforcement when restrictions are raised on which real estate can be sold. And that is, that the execution cannot and must not be a punishment. The exercise must serve only to settle the demand of the believer and not to destroy the debtors, no matter how much the debtor once misbehaved. However, here is clear, when you already mention the principles, the Implementing Law nevertheless contains a whole series of clearly defined principles, and you see because the Implementing Law... calls for the Law on Procedural Procedure and says all those things that are not regulated by the Implementing Law are properly applicable to the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. Now, this one has a lot of principles, and they talk about the behavior of most executives, i.e.... and all other parties in the process when they say that all parties in the process are obliged to act conscientiously and so is the executive who, for example, has kept some object in the drawer for years, and then negotiates with some notary, God forbid, it's also a crime to keep it for a while to collect interest, does not act consciously at all. However, it all falls into our water when we have nothing to charge ourselves from, and that is now the consequence of other things that cannot be solved only by the Executive Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84687	Thank you. Next replica, Ingrid... Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84688	Thank you very much. I agree with everything you said, but they are not principles and you know why I said it, because of that debate earlier, but the principles are not as specific as the State Information Infrastructure Act. I've alluded to that, and you know it very well. You have spoken, the dignity of the debtors is protected, and should be protected, but I will say again that some debtors do not deserve dignity, even protection of dignity. Imagine those to whom the goods were delivered six months ago, properly delivered, and he did not pay, and then the execution cannot be charged, he does not exercise at all because he was influential and powerful in all possible ways makes it impossible. And under the police escort, there's been an end to the most indisposed. I've never seen a performance under a police escort on a tycoon's real estate, and there are cases that can't be done for a long and long time. I hope that this law will not be so, because I say that if I support it, if any more of this, some of my remarks will be accepted and I hope that it will make it impossible for the discrimination that has clearly been seen in Croatia's economic life so far, I personally have experienced, here's one case, when one entrepreneur told me, if you think I'm going to pay you, then you're not normal. He literally told me so. The only thing I could do was not talk to him anymore. [[Invader Batinić: Then it is not a real entrepreneur.]] Thank you very much. [[Invader Batinić: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84689	Next replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84690	Well, here you go, buddy, the sooner you said the sooner you said it, and now it's about that after 90 and some years, no one ever paid anyone else because sometimes it was a shame not to pay their debt. So, a general business civil morality collapsed where the question of power was not to be paid and that was what... was a great injustice. Today, it is thought that someone still owes something, so when such a moral standard is violated, then it takes a long time to regain them and establish them. But in doing so, I do not always need to forget this social component, but also make sure that the judicial procedures and the enforcement procedures and the laws that we are making in this regard cannot solve that social imbalance that needs to be taken into account in some other laws. I agree with you when you say that, in any case, and you recognize it in this law, it is necessary to prevent such conduct that impoverishes the debtor and enriches the believer, giving him something that is not due and beyond measure. It's been possible so far you need to know that we... we canceled in 2002, '96. was introduced into our system and was reintroduced in 2004. It's something that's unfair and it's also to be discussed, but it's the subject of another law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84691	Thank you. Answer, colleague Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84692	Thank you very much. I hope fellow Anticevic that you, in general, said that no one paid anyone, there were always those who regularly, at least some paid, I know them, the rest are always the same. Either they don't pay or they really pay because for some people and for some business people, for some employers, for some entrepreneurs the biggest shame is not to pay your debt. And for some, it is, in fact, seen as a reputation, the status of society that it will increase if it is due. There are those who build their careers on debt. You don't want to pay on purpose, it's something that's the worst that can be in the business world, and there are such cases, such very many cases. But I agree that this law has been improved, that it has been excluded from most of what it was meant to be done, but I think there are arguments and for what I have stated that there is more to be excluded because these are truly extraordinary revenues that are actually just for the settlement of the costs already made. And there's no reason for it to be done, and I think there's a reasonable space to adopt it, and I'm happy to raise my hand for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84693	Thank you. Finally, Deputy Minister. I hope so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84694	Thank you very much. I'm gonna try really hard for a while. Here, I am grateful for the recognition of the importance of this law and for the recognition of our efforts to restore as much balance as possible between what you have highlighted well, so the debtors who do so by their own free will and those who are in such a position for social reasons. In addition to what the Executive Act already has, so the limitation to enforcement on a particular part of the receipt or the exemption of certain categories of income from the whole, we are now just to protect the persons we have talked about, and in relation to the exercise of their property, we have allowed the delay of the exercise if it is a property that represents the only real estate and is necessary to meet its housing needs and the persons who are members of the household, who can propose a second subject to the operation and this is the same form as to prevent the sale of valuable property from being charged possibly less debt. And of course we've introduced the possibility of a tenant's status over a year, so it certainly says that we didn't respect these categories and these problems that have really arisen. You have also recognised the quality of the solution by which a delay can be sought because the offences prosecuted by official duty are ongoing, it is important to stress that the state must establish an appropriate system of enforcement procedure for the rule of law and that the system should be in principle the same for all. If there are justified exceptions, and now we have mentioned them then they should be listed and we have extended that circle of legitimate exceptions. Yes, it's very difficult to see what's worse, to be a believer or debtor when it comes to the performance, so when it comes to forced payment of demand. Maybe the fact that we have so many blocked citizens right now, I'm not going to argue that that's the number that's being operated is I'm not sure it's true, but in any case a lot of them, maybe it's the result of that and the fact that the executive procedure has finally started to work. Because until recently, we had debtors who didn't even know they were in debt or treated their debt so lightly that now that we have established the right performance and when we have shown by blocking that the debt should be paid, it is now, of course, in certain categories that have avoided paying problems. I exempt those who are for social reasons and for the crisis in this situation. You were talking about the need to further exempt certain receipts, compensation for a separate life, transport costs, etc. from the execution. We believe that the categorization that exists in the law and which we have now complemented is sufficient. I'll only mention birth support money they've already been exempt under the existing law, so it's certainly already entered the law. What is one of our technical problems is the problem of identifying payments, i.e. in order to be able, within the Agency's performance that we are currently carrying out in an adequate manner, without a discretionary assessment, and we are constantly avoiding someone being discreetly deciding what means to be charged, and in which case we are not, so that we can know exactly what the categorization of the receipt is about, and we need more system upgrades to be able to recognize that well. But I will answer your claim that a sailor can live without an allowance, and how can a believer live without paying him a debt? It is our duty to ensure the payment of the legally established debt. We therefore seek to maintain balance in this balance for both the believer and the debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84695	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84696	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 571; The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were delivered to the business deadline of the Croatian Parliament and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. The amendments were also submitted by the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Rada, the Croatian Party of Retired Party Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honored Representative Goran Maric. I'd like a representative of the Proposer, respectable Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artukovich Kunst to plead. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84697	Thank you, Mr. President. The government partially accepts amendments to the Croatian Labour Party's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84698	One at a time, please. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84699	Is it possible to propose a united acceptance because it is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84700	Or you accept everything and one by one. In accordance with Article 37 of the amendment no. 1 Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84701	The amendment shall be accepted in part in the part in which the exemption is required from the application of those benefits in respect of transport compensation but in which the transport fee is not considered to be taxed on the basis of non-permanent work. The amendment shall be accepted in the section requiring exemption from the application of support for newborns to the amounts prescribed to which taxed receipts are not considered on the basis of non-permanent work. The amendment shall also be accepted in the section concerning the requirement to exempt from the exercise of support on the basis of the disability of workers and the continuous sickness of workers for a period of more than 90 days, in the event of the death of workers and family members of workers, from the prescribed amounts to which they are not considered taxable receipts based on unsustainable work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84702	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, representative, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84703	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, this is Amendment 3. I don't know if Amendments 1 and 2 have been rejected, so it's illogical that Amendment 3 should be read first, but we're in Amendment 3, I'm going to show myself now because it's about Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84704	No, no, we've put to debate Amendment No. 1 in Article 37. We have to go in order. I don't know if it was an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84705	But it's not an adjective, the government's representative wasn't clear about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84706	Please, please, please, let's go back to the amendment. So please be made aware of Amendment No. 1 in Article 37. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84707	I'm sorry, Article 37. The government is reflected in a way that does not accept the amendment to Article 37, which proposes extending the time limit to the Executive Director in the event of an implementation of the property to two years because we consider it appropriate for a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84708	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Branko Vuksic, Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84709	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we have asked for exactly an extension of the deadline because we believe that all those whose property has been completed experience both psychological shock and existential shock, so I do not know why the deadline for the government is more appropriate than the period of 2 years when families remain, for example, without a house and when they need to take care of their family. So that's why I'm asking to vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84710	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 1 Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists which the Government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 2 East Club respected Deputy Minister for Article 53
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84711	The Government does not accept Amendment No. 2 and as regards the extension of the term in which the performer will be hired if that is the decision. It is also proposed instead of a year for two years. We believe that the deadline of one year is appropriate and for this reason we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84712	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84713	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We also believe that it is more appropriate for a period of two years if the house, apartment, real estate is carried out because we consider that the period of one year is too short to take care of the family, so I ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84714	Please state the amendment number 2 of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the same club representative to Article 59. ... Yeah, that's an explanation, but it can repeat if it has something to add. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84715	Thank you very much. We have already spoken by mistake of the amendment to Article 59. In short, the Government would accept the proposal to exempt from the implementation the fees for the costs of transport to and from work, support for newborns, support for work disability and continuous sick leave for more than 90 days, for the death of workers or family members, and up to the prescribed amount to which these incomes are not considered taxable on grounds of unsustainable work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84716	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84717	You see how much the government principled the government has even refused, let's say, the item that we wanted to exempt from the charge is the compensation for solving the consequences of disaster damage and elementary disasters. ... What do you mean? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84718	It's already been incorporated into our bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84719	Therefore, we insist that all this is stated, these are determined amounts for child support paid to a special bank account, all types of gifts and assistance for children, fees for official travel, fees for transport to and from work, field allowance, maritime allowance, family-separated benefits, support for the disability of workers, support for the death of workers, support for the death of a member of the workers' family, support for the continuous sicking of workers, fees for vacations or regresses, allowances and compensation for the recovery of the consequences of disaster and elementary accidents. We believe that all of this has an impact on the existence and that all of these reasons for the exemption from the application make sense, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84720	Thank you very much. Please state the part of amendment number 3 of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority or that part. We have exhausted the amendments of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers. We're going to the amendment to the club of representatives of HSU. Amendment to Article 59 of the esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84721	Thank you very much. Compared to Article 59, we have already provided an explanation as well as with the amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work, my apologies for the reaction of the previous one. I would just like to point out that the fees with the resolution of the consequences of disaster damage and natural disasters have already been introduced by the previous amendment, i.e. the very amendment of the law into the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84722	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84723	It's better than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84724	What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84725	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84726	Thank you very much. The part that wasn't accepted has been withdrawn. Amendment number 1 of Honored Representative Goran Marić to Article 59, number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84727	Thank you very much. Since the amendment applies again to Article 59, and we have previously explained in which part of the Government accepts the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84728	There's nothing new, thank you very much. Honorable representative of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84729	Thank you very much. I'm glad it's been recognised that it's not a more important child than 15 years old, an 8-year-old from a newborn child, and that an exception from the performance and everything else you've accepted has been included. I'm not the only one, I'm sorry that it doesn't make sense that the field supplement is, say, more important than receiving by virtue and recognition. Receipts based on distinctions and recognitions are excluded from performance, and a field supplement which is not the cost, but given the large part that has been accepted and the time cut I withdraw this part of the amendment that is not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84730	Thank you very much. Amendment No 2 to Article 61 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84731	So, excuse me, are we talking about Amendment number two? The government does not accept Amendment No. 2 since it is not true that the law still allows payments of salaries and other receipts past accounts and past banks, and we wanted to prevent this provision from leading double payments, so through the FINA and through the employer, and to clarify how the implementation is carried out and implemented through the FINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84732	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84733	Thank you very much. The applicant did not specify which legal framework enables the payment of salaries in cash, and this proposal allowed me to remove positive discrimination allowing those employers who do not pay their salaries to the bank are now allowed to have no obligation to do so, and any other law-abiding is imposed upon them. So those who respect the law are bound, and those who do not respect the law are relieved. And that's what I wanted to remove with this amendment. However, the promoter has no understanding of such a proposal. He goes in favor of those who break the law, and that's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84734	Please state the amendment to the 2nd Honored Representative Goran Maric, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the same respected representative, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84735	Thank you very much. The government does not accept Amendment 3 because the powerful verdict as a basis for enforcement has already been introduced into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84736	Appreciation of the esteemed representative, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84737	Well, since it's already in, then I'm pulling back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84738	Thank you, too. We've processed all the amendments. I'll interrupt the vote next time if you don't have all the amendments and explanations anyone has. I'm publicly publishing it. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. What's the score? I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour and 22 abstentions have been passed. 571, P.Z. No. In 571, along with the amendments accepted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84739	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 689 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. We also have a deputy minister with us, do you want an opening? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84740	Thank you very much. The Government proposes amendments to the Court Register Act to transpose the EU Parliament and Council Directive 2012/17 of 13 June 2012 into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This Directive amends the directives that we have already transposed into our legal system on 10, 11. The Directive on the law of companies and the Directive on the harmonisation of safeguards. The 10th Directive concerns the cross-border merger of a company of capital, the 11th Directive referred to the obligation to publish data on subsidiaries of companies located in other Member States. This Directive of 2009 referred to uniform measures for the protection of the interests of members of societies and third parties. We have transposed those directives into our Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, with it being the 10th Directive, and concerns the cross-border merger of companies into the Company Act. This Directive, which we are now transposing, has made amendments relating to the area of registration and exchange of data from court registers or registers of commercial companies of the Member States, and therefore its content is transferred to the Court Register Act. It is a complement of three of those Directives with an obligation to ensure the exchange of data and documents on registration entities operating in several countries. In order to exchange these data, a system for the integration of central registers by Member States shall be established. Connecting the European Commission's structure. The key to sharing information from the register of Member States is a unique identifier. On this basis, Member States or entities may be identified. Therefore, the Member State in which the register of the national register is registered, the number of branches or the number of entities registered in that register and, possibly, some additional elements for identification. The addition of Directive 89/66 requires the exchange of data for branches and, by supplementing Directive 2005/56, the exchange of data for companies that are cross-borderly connected and attached. The addition of this third Directive sets out the urgency in the handling of these measures in order to allow all amendments to the register to be received and published within 21 days of the delivery of the complete dossier. The most recent information on the national rules of the Member State through the e-Justice portal is required to be published in addition to the records and the publication of data relating to the registration law. The Directive also provides for the authority to determine the fee for access to these data. The registration system and the European Central Platform in that system are defined. As I said, the European Commission is the central body that develops the platform and manages it. The Commission is also obliged to adopt implementing acts in order to revive the platform. And the deadline for such treatment is 7 July 2015. We, apart from the implementation of a directive amending those three directives, have made certain amendments in terms of facilitating registration and that limited-responsibility society as the most common form of registration we are carrying out in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the obligation to publish in the National Journal is abandoned, thereby reducing the process and reducing the cost. We allow a more efficient log mode. This law also regulates the relationship between the Law on the Court Register and the Law on Commercial Companies with regard to the publication of the registration and the time when the registration is deemed to be published so much as the Law on Commercial Companies will lay down general rules and, if there are exceptions or justified exceptions, it will also regulate the Law on the Court Register. We are harmonising our domestic court law with the provisions of the European Union with this law, and we are bound by the time limit of the integration of this Directive, and we are calling for Article 206(1). The Rules of Procedure propose an emergency procedure. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84741	Thank you, too. I hope both colleagues and colleagues will be so constructive and meaningful. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of HNS representative Vesna Sabolic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to point out that, of course, on behalf of the HNS Club, the proposed Law and amendments to the Law on the Court Register will allow for greater competitiveness of the European economy and thus Croatian. And this goal will be achieved by reducing administrative burdens, business operators and increasing the level of legal certainty in business relations. This bill continues with a process aimed at simplifying and speeding up proceedings relating to the court register and for the purpose of ensuring the resolution of a larger number of cases, facilitating business, reducing administrative burdens and increasing legal certainty. This proposal for a law to initiate the process of modernising the court register raises another level because the registration procedure in the court register is further simplified by removing all doubts as to the publication of the registration and the moment when the registration is deemed to be published and a more effective way of publishing the registration in the court register is introduced. The proposed amendments will further facilitate, simplify and cheapen the entry into the market of individuals or groups of individuals, both in the country and abroad, which are intended to carry out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The publication of the registration, the establishment of a company to facilitate and speed up the relationship between business entities by means of a limited liability on the website on which the register is located. This bill also carries out further harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union, which is more said by the Deputy Minister. The harmonisation of the Law on the Court Register with the said Directive will create a precondition for cross-border cooperation with regard to the connection of central registers with the aim of contributing naturally to greater flexibility and to increasing competitiveness and the Croatian economy itself. Connecting the registers will not create a centralised database of registers but will create a system of connecting registers to exchange data through a platform also referred to by the Deputy Minister and which will present a common interface, which is most important or very important to me that all of this, that the functioning of the platform will be financed from the budget of the European Union and that the system data will be exchanged without compensation. It is important to point out that through the system of connecting the registers, access to data on opening and ending bankruptcy or liquidation procedures, erasure of registration entities and other procedures and data which produce or may produce legal effects in another country, which will facilitate and introduce additional legal certainty not only in the business of economic operators but also in the conduct of state bodies. And that is why the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club supports and will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84743	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84744	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction of my presentation, I must first look back at the current not-a small number of amendments and additions to this law. The basic list of registration rights governing the issue of establishment, establishment and management of the court register entered into force on 5 January 1995 and so far we have had 7 amendments and additions to the law and two amendments to the Law on the Court Register. The last amendments and additions to this Act were not so long ago in September 2013 and came into force in December 2013. Therefore, after so many amendments and additions to the law of the Croatian Democratic Community, the opinion is that the proposer should approach the making of a whole new law that would certainly be a better solution for its application than its completion every little one. However, I will return to law alone for a short while. The court register is, as we know, a public book whose registration gives rise to certain legal effects for registration entities, but also for third parties. The need for repeated intervention in this law and its application in an emergency procedure is to include Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the integration of central registers, trade registers and registers of commercial courts. In this regard, it is necessary to amend the law in order to comply with the European Union rules which will certainly gain better functioning of the law in question, and also to assist trade courts in resolving the lex specialis of the case in that area. The introduction of those Directives achieves cross-border cooperation, i.e. data, documents for a branch of a foreign founder are now made available by means of a system for the integration of central registers, trade registers and trade registers established in accordance with European Union directives. What is important for the highlighted, cross-border cooperation and data exchange obligation existed before this Directive, but without a single and common system. The most important change is in the way the register is functioning which will now ensure the availability of data in opening, ending bankruptcy or liquidation procedures, as well as erasure of registration entities through the integration of all registers and the availability of data. In order to achieve effective use of data exchanges through a system of connecting branches of an foreign founder, it shall have a unique identifier to identify it. Finally, it is also good that some nomotechnical inconsistencies have been seen and corrected, and some articles have been arranged with a clear statement. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84745	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84746	Honorable Vice President, Deputy Minister and the remaining parliamentary representatives and deputies. The SDP Club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register, a law which is the basic regulation of registration law, the law governing the establishment, establishment and management of a court register. The speed to which commercial courts operate directly affects the development of the economy so that the court register is as a public book whose registration creates certain legal effects, both for registration entities and for third parties of exceptional importance for the economy. And the latest amendments and additions to this law were on the trail of precisely more effective work of the court register, and let's remind ourselves, it was the removal of barriers and some concerns as a regulation of the process of eradicating entities without liquidation under official duty. There were assumptions that the registration of the court register would be as simple and rapid as possible and would comply with the provisions of the Trade Society Act. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register also go in the direction of a more effective way of enrolment, so the possibility of registering the establishment of a limited liability society on the website on which the court register is located, i.e. correcting the statement in order to avoid doubt. Furthermore, these amendments and additions to the judicial and registration law of the Republic of Croatia are in line with the European Union documents. These amendments and additions shall, in any case, create the preconditions for cross-border cooperation, i.e. the integration of central registers, commercial registers and trade registers, which is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to transpose all compliance with the European Parliament and Council Directives of 13.6.2012. The obligation of cross-border cooperation and exchange of data existed before the adoption of the Directive but this obligation was a single and common system to provide up-to-date and easily available data on registration entities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since it is a matter of harmonising our registration rights with European Union documents on the one hand, and on the other hand, certain solutions to the latest amendments and additions that go towards simplification of the SDP will support these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84747	Thank you too, colleagues. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84748	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 689. The amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was delivered within the business deadline of the Croatian Parliament and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 110 votes for P.Z.E. law passed. No. In 689, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with an accepted amendment in the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84749	We continue with - Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No. European Parliament and the Council of 12 June 2013 on mutual recognition of safeguards in civil matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 680 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You've received reports. We have the Deputy Minister with us. Is there a need? ... Thank you. Everything's understandable. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Are the committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84750	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us again a proposal for a law under the label of the PZE which marks the harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with the legislation of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The European Parliament and the Council of 12.6.2013 on mutual recognition of safeguards in civil matters as an act of the European Union shall be directly applicable in the field of all Member States and shall, for the purpose of its correct application, be defined by the bodies and procedures implementing protective measures in accordance with certain individual articles of the Regulation. The proposal for a law therefore makes this regulation an integral part of the mutual recognition of safeguards in civil matters which are prohibited and regulated into a place where a protected person has a place of residence, for purposes or for which he regularly visits or maintains himself. The prohibition and arrangement of contact relationships of any form with a protected person including by telephone, electronic or ordinary mail, fax and other means. Prohibition and editing and approximation of a protected person at a distance less than permitted. What is important to point out for this bill is that police administrations are competent, according to the place of residence, to implement the safeguard measures in the scope of these Regulations. However, when it comes to the need to implement the safeguard measures that I have already stated, the Criminal Court shall decide by a decision within three days of receipt of the written notice and of the protection measure. Therefore, as this bill only implements this regulation in our legal legislation, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84751	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. I wish you a pleasant extension of the evening until tomorrow. Session interrupted at 21.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-10-0.u84752	Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. European Parliament and the Council of 12 June 2013 on mutual recognition of safeguards in civil matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 680. The debate on the text is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 109 votes for P.Z.E. law passed. No. In 680, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed it.
