ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69673	Thank you very much. So today's topic is the 2012 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. The 2012 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan for drug abuse, as well as the previous year, was drawn up in accordance with the guidelines of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, to produce standardised national reports on the state of the drug problem. The report contains pooled data for 2012 on the state of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia and this epidemiological data on people treated for drug abuse, data on drug abuse and the review of activities carried out. During the course of 2012 there were 7855 persons, 1120 of whom were first treated, so 14.3%. The total number of addicts in 2012 increased by 2.5% compared to 2011. The largest share of people, so 80.9% was treated for the abuse of opiates as the main means. The following are persons treated for the abuse of cannabinoids. According to data on the number of totals treated in 7 counties, the number of addicts per 100,000 inhabitants is higher than the average of Croatia. These are like previous years Istria County, then Zadarska, City of Zagreb and Sibenik-Knin County. The following are Primorje-Gorski County, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska and Split-Dalmatia. According to preliminary data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health for the Cause of Death in 2012 39 people died from an overdose and this methadone leads to the cause of 27, then heroin 9, cocaine 3. A total of 7295 crimes related to drug abuse and trafficking have been reported in 2012 according to the Ministry of the Interior. In 2012, a total of 6381 drug users were seized, continuing the trend in the growth of the total number of drug seizures started in 2009. All resolution ministries have actively implemented the measures of the National Strategy and the Action Plan and have achieved satisfactory results along with existing resources, in particular to reduce the incidence of drug abuse and drug addiction through an integrated approach, and have joined the development of new concepts of prevention of addiction and availability of treatment, disease and addiction programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69674	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the club of independent representatives and respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69675	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy, Certainly not, but it's safe when we talk about drugs it's one of the most serious things a state or state should be committed to. These things are possible in Croatia. I will only quote one newspaper article from 11.10.2013. Says the drug suspects were secretly followed by Austrian investigators working with our police. Since there was no agreement at that time that would legally resolve the court considers the evidence void. It's a process against these and these. In fact, Croatia will never quote to the end to shed light on whether a group of indictees in the summer of 2007 really planned to organise the sale of 50 kilos of cocaine from South America. The case is soon falling into the water, as Austrian police officers illegally on Croatian territory followed suspects who offered to sell the drugs. It's about a process for these people not to mention those who were eventually arrested in a spectacular police action in August 2007 with 5 kg of heroin worth 3 million kuna. Otherwise, they were trying to resell 50 kilos of heroin. What to say when we talk about this report in 2012 The situation is serious and certainly even more serious in 2013. First, out of 4046 drug students surveyed, 11% of those studied once or more used marijuana or hashish. I guess in Bjelovar one percent, in Istria 30 percent. Or as Dr. Sakoman would say, I quote: "The drugs in Istria are too available. The number of heroin addicts in Istria is 60% higher than in the Bjelovar-Belgar County." I'm normally just sticking to this report saying this first of all for Istria because that's what makes me the most of all. Why? Because we'll lose one generation of young people if the local and state authorities, I don't know what to say don't run. The country used 622 million kuna to fight drugs in 2012. Unfortunately, it's 120 million kuna less than 2011. Data on page 38. In 2011, 741 million kuna was spent on drug defence, public order, security, health, education, social protection, central state, county and civil society organisations. 2010. 721 million kuna, 100 million euros. Here's how much that problem is expressed, serious and how much that prevention or the fight against it costs. What offends me and the problem of addiction I see is the most serious thing in Istria is what the Deputy Minister said earlier. The local government in Istria is deafening the problem. On what grounds do I claim? On page 40, meaning Istria, means spending to fight addiction, Istrian County 544 thousand kuna, Primorje-Gorski County 4 million kuna or Primorje-Gorski County where the problem exists but is two times less pronounced than in Istria, 8 and a half times more than the County of Istria exhibits or separates for the problem. In fact, when there are no drugs in Rijeka, all Zagreb normally rushes to Istria. And now let me tell you something else that says, say, Mr. Sakoman. He thinks the repressive apparatus hasn't responded, especially when it talks about Istria to that challenge. He's talking about the MUP, the DORH, customs, control of the vessel, etc. You can reach heroin in Pula in 20 minutes. Pula thus holds an infamous first place in front of Split, Zadar, Varazdin, it looks like Rijeka, Zagreb that we are not talking about New York as well. You come to the cocaine in Pula in 23 minutes says Dr. Sakoman, up to the joint in 14 minutes, ecstasy here in 34 minutes. But that's why those electronic music festivals share it all. I told cocaine in Pula 20 minutes, in Split 27 minutes, in Zadar 40 minutes, in Varazdin until the same gram in 50 minutes, in Rijeka in 52 minutes, in Zagreb for 64 minutes. Pula gets ahead of it at a low price of heroin. 1 gram 94 kuna, 1 gram of cocaine 104 kuna, and 175 kuna in Zadar. And the responsibility of Dr. Sakoman sees it, I quote, "Influenced by local politics on police personnel." That's how it was, it's not like that anymore, and it can't be like that. He's talking about local players in the crime zone, and I'd really like to know who they are, but I know someone seems to have their fingers in it, too. What do you say? This is what we're literally becoming, I dare say, a drug destination. No, it's not too much to say, even slightly said. It's enough to mention those electronic music festivals to make fun of. Now we've got a reference or a jazz director who needs to collect 300,000 kuna, and his expenses will be 400. But okay, I guess that's not where it's gonna be. But at these festivals, the situation is really dramatic. The police or the new chief of police have really started to do something about it, and I thank him for that. On that famous Outlook where 122 people found the drugs of 200, I guess 50 they searched. 7 days later, at a Dimension Festival in Pula, 115 of them found drugs of 200 searched. If they had tested them, I guess we'd all be. Well, then in Rovinj, 50 out of 100 were searched. We're in a situation where there's no Istrian place that doesn't organize these festivals because there's just a lot of money going around. They were expelled by Greeks, Italians, etc. We hosted them. And once again, gentlemen, we will lose one generation because of it. 5,000 people on weekends don't know how to use drugs in Pula and Istria. Of the reports that I am going to this 2011 report for drugs in the Republic of Croatia, 7767 are more precisely than the ones reported in Istria 1092. It's every seven or seven of them 7000 295 in 2012 it means 944, again every week. And I say, once again and again, through this pay phone, my dear historians understand what problem this is about because it's not happening to others, it can happen to me tomorrow, not to me like me, but to one of my own, and the day after that, I don't know who. This strategy mentions one pulsic association "Insured", a state-funded association with 550 thousand kuna, 30 thousand kuna County gives Istria County, 25 thousand kuna gives the city of Pula plus business space. Otherwise, only in the mayoral office for the national team ate 55 thousand kuna per month in 2013. I know a hungry man can't work but what's too much brother is too much. The Pula Association collected 160 kg of syringe, spontium or spontaneous in my area by 8 months 2013. By the end of the year, that's 250 kilos of syringe. I apologize to them, I wasn't at the beginning of this year, if each one has 1.5 grams of watch, but normally of those 250 kg should be multiplied by at least 2 and at these festivals, that I said that several times already here drugs in Istria have started to be offered at the action. Buy a gram you get two grams. I don't know three, four hours, with two grams six, seven hours. And I said, drugs are offered on stocks like when I don't know a market someone buys I don't know chicken legs so it's action so buys a kilo and gets just two kilos. Buy a liter and a half Coke you get two liters of coke. Look out, even with Coke, that doesn't go one for two, this is what we came to Istria for. And now the question really arises whether we should keep quiet or simply talk about it, so maybe it cost us something personal. I know that the team will immediately, my ex, push several hundred thousand kunas to relativize everything, but the problem will simply remain for all of us. Otherwise, this drug business weighs billions of kunas. If you are fighting addiction, watch out for 2011 spending in the country 741 million kuna, 2012. 622 million kuna, so which one is simply billions of dollars? On page 157, this is about origin, patterns, smuggling or that I'm not quoting all of this now, not to quote this about dirty money coming into these areas across Southeast Europe, etc., by smuggling Western European etc. contacts. But what matters, it destroys generations, it destroys the economy. And I'll do it one more time, and I may have said several times, that this report we received for 2012 might be one of the best reports we've ever received. And I really call and give yours some action plan on this floor, let's get our heads out of the sand, because otherwise we're all literally going to fall into living mud. I repeat, the state spends between €620 million and 750 million per year on fighting and treating addiction. That's 100 million euros. 100m euros if turned into jobs, one job equals 30,000 euros. It's about three to four thousand jobs. We're giving so much in the fight against addiction. I can only estimate one thing, then, that the drug market is three, four, five times more powerful than what the state is investing in that prevention. If you're looking out for heroin in Istria for those 250 kilos of syringes, then you're sure it's two hundred pounds, so where are the other types of drugs? What kind of business is it just in that little space he's talking about, which is what Dr. Sakoman speaks very highly. When we divide the syringe by 1.5 grams then we get 333 thousand 333 syringes in one year. So we divide it by 365 days, we get 865 out on heroin. And it all matches the treatments and these criminal acts this report is talking about. Otherwise treated persons, watch out for page 93, in Istria means 840, I've calculated it means if we share it with syringes 1.5 grams that it's 865 people. It all just fits. And for the end of page 94, there are 514.8 treated addicts per 100,000 people in Istria. In Zadar it is 450, in Primorje-Gorski County 345.9, in Zagreb 317.8, in Split 290.5. So the problem with us is twice as pronounced. And once again, thank you to all those who have prepared this report in the faith that someone will break up and thank those who are normally against one of the greatest messages at this time and in our country, I guess in the world, too, are constantly here from day to day means to fight it or to face that problem. And we support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69676	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69677	Thank you very much. You spoke first of all about drug abuse, drug use in Istria. Clear with the part and about the whole of Croatia. In fact, it is a very recognizable fact that those counties, those regions that have a better standard of living, which have counties with better fiscal capacity, so in which life is relatively better than in Slavonia, GDP and all other indicators, employment rates or unemployment have a higher incidence of drugs than in your county, for example. The Istrian thing you've been so dramatic about, what you're right about. But you also talked about festivals that were imported to Istria, clearly with knowledge and authority in Istria, so they banned Thompson and I don't think that there would be an increase in the use of drugs that Thompson came to Istria even though you too represent that Thompson is not allowed in Istria, you are very much in the words of a great Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69678	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69679	So, Mr. Boro Grubisic, who's defending Thompson from coming to Istria? Slowly, slowly, Thompson was in Istria for the beatingification of Don Bulesic. But I don't think anyone should get up and nobody in one Partizan Istria should provoke with the messages "For Home Ready!" and when we talk about a standard then convincingly maximum standard, the biggest gross social product percapita has parentheses, but the problem of dependence in the Zagreb area is double less than in Istria, Zadar or Varazdin, not because of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69680	Please don't throw away while the MPs speak. Branko Vuksic, a respected representative, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69681	Very, very short, esteemed colleague Cain. Here I am when I listen to you I will watch the Istrians closely next time I come to Istria, I consider the Istrians, I see them as healthy people. This is dramatic that you're as if you're an insider of all this data you've had is astounding and all the honor on collected data. And if that's true, then you need to be worried, this is what it looks like to you that the whole of Istra is all tangled up like you said. But you say that 865 Istrian is on heroin, then you deny yourself, yet it's not a monster and this report is a completely different picture. The drug consumption declines or stagnises in that we are on something in the last few years and from somewhere since 2007 as I read from the report, yet these processes and the state's concern is not so negligible and I don't think it's all about money that if 100 million is less that it's going to increase, you said it's the biggest standard in Zagreb, so in Zagreb there's no increase in drug consumption so I don't know the very strange relationship from your report to Istria that I'm repeating in the middle and I don't think there's so much destruction in Istria, at least I'm not experiencing as a guest when I come but I'm saying now I'm going to watch the Istrians closely when I'm in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69682	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69683	I will carefully observe whether anyone has read this report and whether perhaps here in the Assembly someone is more tangled up than elsewhere, e. E. Istrians, Mr. Vuksic, brave, fair, working first of all, but Istria, when it comes to addiction, has a problem. By all parameters we're once again gonna say in the first place. This problem is certainly the most expressive one in Istria. That's what the Deputy Minister of Health was talking about, and that's what this report is about. What can I tell you if you let me quote this data again from Dr. Sakoman? You come to cocaine in Istria in 23 minutes, in one dose in Istria 104 kuna, in Zadar 175. In one Split you come to this in 27 minutes and so on. When we speak from 7767 to Istra waste 1092 means every seventh, so can we imagine that? I was talking about only one association collecting 250 kilos of syringes a year, so we're really talking about a number of 500 people. I was saying that for prevention or combating addiction, the state, the local community, we all spend about 100 million euros on an annual basis, so you can imagine what the number is simply, which is real traffic when we talk about drugs. And for the end quote page 94th of the 100 thousand inhabitants of Istria there are 514 treated addicts, Zadar 450, Split 290. So we have a problem. I really want to appeal to both the state and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and the local self-government that we all split together because otherwise we're going to lose an entire generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69684	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer. New replica of respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69685	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Caine, you were talking about these 100m-euro circuses that are being spent to say so on the fight against drugs and you said it should be invested in the economy. On the other hand, it turns out that there are a lot of drugs in those developed parts. I would say that perhaps you should consider whether amateur sport and gathering children in sports and young people is what you should invest some of that money in and thus prevent in principle that monster that is present everywhere. So I think you've located the money but that you actually need a little more in such things to turn to young people and sports because today this amateur sport is basically murdered, it's not allowed to deal with them at all. There are no more people who can do this, so I think we should turn around in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69686	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69687	I didn't say that money should be invested in the economy. I've said that the equivalent of 100 million euros is somewhere around 3 to 4 thousand jobs. That's what I said, but I believe that this 740 million kuna from 2011 or 622 million kuna from 2012 is the best money invested in the Republic of Croatia and it is literally said here that for public order and security alone, it means that the police, at an annual level, stand out to fight the addiction of 473 million kuna, health care 127 million kuna, education 13 million kuna, social protection 7, as much as it is, 5 million kuna. But what bothers me a little, no matter how centralised Croatia is, there is no greater hearing in our counties. Countys stand out, so I'd say shy 12.4 million kunas, Istria 544 thousand kunas where the biggest problem is, it's less than for a team in the mayor's office, and the Primorje-Gorski County 4.6 million kuna. So, even more money for me needs to be invested in that monster, in the fight against addiction, but first of all, under quotes, make the police take advantage of these 473.6 million kunas standing on her disposition to fight that monster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69688	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and the representative respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69689	Mr. President, Deputy Minister, representatives from the, uh, excuse us, who is present from the ministry? Health care. So, we think on behalf of the club, we think this report is very content, but it's also disturbing, educational and binding to all of us. The report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in Croatia actually every year shows us whether we are on the right track, whether we are in this very, very difficult fight, the fight against the most profitable and dangerous business. Thanks to the particulars collected by the government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, we are actually getting an annual picture of public abuse of intoxication. So according to the latest data, I will also say a number of figures, according to the latest data, it is estimated that in Croatia between 7800 and 13000, when we look at the problem of drug use, such addicts, and that the total population, to 1,000 people, is between 1.83 and 320 are just addicts, i.e. problematic drug use. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the register of persons treated for the use of psychoactive drugs by the end of 2012 registered more than 32,000 of whom 2753 people died and recorded 30,000 live persons in the register. Among treated subjects, the highest number of opiate addicts is 80.9%. The rate of treatment for the first time due to non-opiotic addiction is stable and for the past 10 years it ranges from 54% to 65% and in the 2012 report is 53.9%. Also, the total number of new users decreased, namely the share of new people in the treatment system of addicts in 2012 was 14.3% less than in recent years. More unsanitary than opiate addicts enter the system annually, but since opiate addiction requires longer treatment and care, they are maintained for many years and are treated annually by more opiate addicts. The addictive population in Croatia is growing older, the average age of both men and women in the treatment system shows an upward trend. The first treatment of addicts is also getting older so that the average age of the first visit to outpatient treatment, I'm talking about treatment, 24.9 years, and hospitally for 32.6 years. According to the data that arrived in '13. A year, until June 10th, '13. In 2012, 165 people died in Croatia, but because of the causes associated with the abuse of psychoactive drugs. The heroin overdose has steadily decreased since 2007, which is the number of people who were overdosed with heroin 9 times lower in 2012 than in 2007, for example. However, when we talk about addictions, we can never rely solely on opiates, or drugs, we must remember smoking tobacco, alcohol consumption, the use of sedatives, transquisitors, here I must stress the cooperation of the ministries, that is, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature, which launched the "Health for Five" project in which one research was carried out. I'll give you some information on these researches, however, we need to be aware that cooperation is still necessary and that we can't stop at projects like this, just like this. So when we look at the project "Health for Five" within which research was carried out among students of 8th grade and 1st and 2nd grade of high school, as regards alcohol 81% consumed alcohol at least once or more times in their lives. When we look at a total of surveyed students about gambling from research, it is evident that almost every other student has gambled or gambled at least once or more in their lives, with boys inclined to do so. Here I will mention another survey of the Ruđer Bošković Institute, which was carried out quantitatively determining selected urinated biomarkers and legal drugs in the wastewater of the city of Zagreb. The analysis covers 13 selected urinal biomarkers that are excreted from the body after the consumption of 6 selected illegal drugs, such as cocaine, heroin, amphetamines, ecstasy, matamphethamine, marijuana and two therapeutic opiates, which is methadone and codeine. The results showed how much marijuana consumption in Zagreb is steadily growing. Since 2012, the consumption rate of this drug has increased about 2 times compared to the consumption of 2009. However, the rate of methadone consumption in Zagreb is steadily increasing as the rate of cocaine consumption shows a changing trend in 2011 and this is important, the observed drop in consumption rates, and then the return of growth at a level similar to that of 2009. So when you look at the fact that you're reducing the number of heroin users, it's a worrying fact that there's an increase in methadone consumption. Does this mean that methadone is available on the black market, which certainly was not in our best interest when substitution therapy was given. The next is the alarming fact that the increasing increase in consumption is so-called consumption. synthetic drugs. There's a danger coming to us. If we know that these consumptions cause irreversible brain damage, then we need to be aware of the fact that over the years we will have an increasing number of psychiatric diagnosiss and patients. In fact, the consumption of synthetic preparations is very often caused by comorbidities in consummation or so on. double diagnosis requiring psychiatric and pharmacology treatment. It's a danger I repeat. The treatment will certainly be more expensive and lasting. One more thing about funding numbers, when you look at the specific public expenditure in the area of drug control in the Republic of Croatia since 2010 as regards the ministry and public bodies at the state level, the county and civil society organisations are increasing funds. In 2010, we had 99 million kunas almost 100 million, and in 2012, we have 124 million 369 etc. The table shows from this data that significant funds from the state budget are being spent on various sides, but we wonder if we are coordinated enough? It can be concluded that from this data and state and local and regional self-government is also investing, also making efforts to combat the abuse of intoxicating funds. But we ask ourselves, as every year, is that enough? Because we've heard of colleagues who've been exposed before, and they're different in certain counties. The reasons we didn't investigate why it was. Is the county commission on which he stands actually such a design program? Are they working, is it bigger economic growth? It's not really being explored why in certain counties there's such a big difference. It should also be noted that according to the results of the ESPAD survey according to field data, it is increasingly widespread among young people as we have seen this and the carriage and dependence on brake and online addiction. I know that we are actually fighting against all of these addictions on many sides, but maybe we should think again about putting this under the same hat or making one control mechanism from one central center to create a control mechanism for the local one. And you should put as much emphasis as possible on learning positive life skills, building healthy lifestyles and allowing young people more space to actively spend their free time because since we are a country that we are in transit, when you look at the geostrategic position is such, it is very difficult to get rid of general drugs. But we have to raise our children to say no. This is why I say that as much emphasis should be placed on learning positive life skills and I hope that the health education that we have introduced and, of course, school preventive programs that are now coordinated to contribute to this. On behalf of the SDP club, I accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69690	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you've expressed satisfaction with the report and in principle it's really okay, there's collected everything that's been done and done but I still can't agree with such great pleasure for what I've said before, replicating my colleague Caina. So when in this chapter prevention will be well-worked investment in amateur sports, in sports for children and young people for that population that is most endangered, then I will personally be satisfied with this report. And I just think that we didn't go all the way, that we really don't see the thing well, because at the end of the day, we have one degradation situation, I repeat, this amateur sport and we're not looking at that part through this prism. And I assure you that those kids who are at sports playgrounds, in sports halls this afternoon, at night, on weekends they don't have time to be so exposed to these bad influences and later find themselves in these statistics. And after this report, in principle, it would be very good to see and look at this situation and make certain moves to really invest in this preventive part, not in a way that you have to sanction someone by force or repression, but simply to make content, invest some of these money that is in the repressive part, invest it in that particular part, attract children to sports fields, to the halls, to gather these volunteers who will deal with children and thus go in the direction of drug control.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69692	Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69693	Thank you very much, President. Well, colleague Hrg, I said I was happy with the report because it is very substantial, but it also continued that the report is disturbing and binding for all of us. I think we all share the same opinion here. You were talking about repression and prevention, as I understand it, you're more at prevention absolutely, but it's such a big problem that we can't just act by preventing it. So we have repressive measures and, of course, preventive measures. I'm in favour of getting everything from one center coordinated because we can't, the big problem is, all the ministries should actually be involved in solving this, from the partial we have nothing. Also when it comes to prevention, prevention without continuity is not a prevention because that is where we will always lose. And now I'm also asking you, in your county, do you know how much you stand out for sports, how much you stand out to fight addiction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69694	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69695	Dear colleagues of Šimac-Bonačić, you have asked one very important question in your presentation, which is the cause of drug use, which is why there are so many differences between cities and counties, some parts of Croatia. If we knew the causes, then prevention would certainly be much more effective. Now the question arises, as with many other segments in society, if we are doing enough analysis, if we have enough, if we have the potential to explore, if we are dealing with enough of this problem, this monster, which certainly threatens the most young, but if seen by the report, there are more and more senior addicts. The addicts of the old, and it kind of calms me down, you said a disturbing report, but when the report is read, and if it reads, I wouldn't panic as much as I tried. If we answer these questions, to analysis, to research how professional we are in how many prevention experts we have and how much society wants. I agree with Mr. Hrg that it is necessary to invest in sport, but if we are not to investigate the causes of drug use quite certainly and it is seen in some parts of Croatia are quite different causes because it is not the cause of the indifference as we have seen. We know that in time Split was that point of impact where it was, now it's said that Istria, so I'm just asking, too, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69696	Your Honor, the qualification should be drug abuse, not drug abuse. Excuse me. Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69697	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vuksic, I see that we agree on that, and I am also always in favour of an empirical approach to any conclusion, that we can draw some conclusions, we must have an empirical approach and I have in this exhibit and cited some research that has already been done because based on research we can actually move on, but I think that we should continue to do them. Especially with this reason why it's happening, whether it's poverty, whether it's abundance. Today we have heard various topics, whether it is poverty or abundance or something else, but of course we need to know. You're wondering if we have enough experts to do this... knowledge is the greatest value, absolutely that we should keep working on education through schools and all preventive programs not only include children, preventive programs must include parents and teachers, and we should not ask ourselves when we see the problem, ask that someone else, whether we are members of the executive government in local regional self-government, whether we are members of committees, we should all do our part, and of course I stress coordination must be one common cap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69698	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69699	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here today we are trying to determine the reasons for this report, or the state of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse. I'd say first of all. at the beginning that what's most important is that, and when you look at sad stories on any of our televisions, any commercial, any Croatian, then you see these sad stories mostly parents who say they didn't recognize at first, that they had no idea, that they couldn't even assume what was going on with their children. What I'm saying is that I stress that the role of the family is number one, and only then the second role Mr. Hrg is talking about, therefore, the activation of children in terms of sports, amateur activities and some others, according to a colleague of the SDP's skills, with positive skills that can be subject to telling children mainly at school age. Today, in many areas mainly poor, where I have already said gross social product, where the fiscal capacity of the county is small main, therefore the active spending of leisure is in cafes. It's the main way to spend free time, and then we know what's next. I wouldn't want to insult the cafes and the owners here, but the possibility of getting in touch with the dealers, the ones who are therefore running the drug trade, the ones that are small and large, is precisely in these situations. So, staying in cafes is the main and only living skills of those who finish high school and have no business. Looking at the unemployment rate in Slavonia and Baranja, in all counties, all 5 counties of Slavonia, Srijema and Baranja can be observed and certainly expect that this very life skills and activity of living in cafes will be the highest so for 5 kuna, 6 drinks coffee. We even have five. In Zagreb it is a little more expensive, but such a stay is very widespread mainly in poor counties. When Mr. Cain talks about the Istrian County in a very dramatic way, I would say a ton then it turns out that she is one of the proverbs from one of the country's films, which in our area is "the whole village of sniffing white" in Istria almost a fact even though it's not so. In fact, it is evident here that in the midst of the dunes in which it is, those economic indicators show a certain better standard than the small ones, those other environments where that standard is weaker show a significant increase in abuse, according to the president of the Drug Assembly and drug users. So in this report we see that the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, so either it's a matter of collecting statistical data or it's really a thing I can't determine, but the data for the Bjelovar-Bilogor County on this matter are the best. So is my Brod-Posavia County compared to, although it has a small, slight increase compared to the previous period from 2010 to 2011 relatively good compared to the Istrian County, to Split-Dalmatia, Primorje-Gorski, the city of Zagreb. Today, I was met by a parent whose son played a game so he had a kilo of marijuana under his couch and got 3 years in prison, processed, court procedure completed, legally convicted, got 3 years in prison. So he's wondering as a caring parent, though I can't be a judge in that case, but how come for 40 million embezzlements of money and corruption in Planinska gets a year of voluntary work in some kind of kitchen social, and for a kilo of grass to say this popularly, you get three years of strict prison. Yeah, that's very interesting, so even though this Kukuriku coalition has promised change in relation to ownership for its own personal needs alone, I don't think that's exactly what happened. When we look at this whole report that's very extensive, which is very detailedly worked out in the county, it's done by the number of deaths that 165 are compared to, so 165 deaths, then we can see some features. So the death rate in 2012 was 165. Compared to 2011, this is a reduction, so a reduction because then in 2011, there were 194 deaths. But when we look at that mortality to the cause of death, then we actually see where the point is. So the methadone overdose of those 165 is 27. And I agree with Mrs. Bonačić, who was talking about methadone, so by overdosing methadone directly, it was found to be 27 deaths. And whether prescribing methadone as a substitute for taking off drugs is either an easy availability of methadone or a gray, or a black methadone market is widely spread in Croatia is difficult to determine from this Report. When we look at the county numbers of deaths here, I must also point out that the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, therefore zero cases, has not been in the Bjelovar-Bilogor County. In Brod-Posavia County, my county from which I come was of those 165 five deaths or 3% in relation to the entire Republic of Croatia, which given the number of inhabitants of the Brod-Posavina County is approximately appropriate. The average age of life is also interesting compared to previous years. So if we look at and observe the average age of people who died from the abuse of psychoactive drugs then we can see that in 2000 that average age at the time of death was 29.5 years. In 2012, the average age is 43.5 years, which is relatively good because, apparently and possibly, the implementation programmes of this action plan have been relatively extended by this definitive departure from this world. And when you look at the average age of people who died of overdose, overdoses or overshot at the time of death, then that life age is also extended from 28 to 27.8 to 34 years. What it says about the shift and initial abuse of drugs and the treatment of coming to treatment, so at a later age of life how this report actually shows. What is just mentioned here, though, is just a report on the implementation of the Strategy and the plan to combat drug abuse, I would say that only on 2 or 3 occasions mention other addictions. And that is an addiction that I would almost say equally if not more and cost and destroys Croatian society, which is gambling and betting. When that monster came to us 10, 15 years ago, then it went towards so East Europe and come to Southeast Europe in the countries that were created by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and now you see today in the research of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute on 3371 students of therefore children of school age there is information that half of them were gambling and betting, half of them, 50% entered the bookshop. Our neighbouring country in northern Hungary has realized some things before. I'm talking about what might not be a topic right now, but addiction is also not going to be long. Therefore, Hungary's neighbouring state understood this and President Orban banned and closed betting stations in Hungary's decree, banned such services and such types of business, banned and closed all bookies as a way of spending money from Hungarian citizens but also prevented the actual dependence of mainly school-aged children. And no one asks you at the bookies, here you go to the bookies and you'll see, no one asks when you're teaching a ballot how old you are, are you a student, etc. There's no problem. About alcohol also exists at school age we have reports here. I don't want to talk about it because I say almost all the facts are known and the interviews are in Brod-Posavina County, at Ivan Goran Kovacic's school in Slavonski Brod, have shown that some 15% of the children until the 8th grade therefore consume alcohol. This is the report that is attached here in this overall report. It's a good thing we have this kind of report right around the county, at every point in drug abuse and then death because of drug abuse, but I think when we look at the overall report that we actually have one stagnation in everything. And then we don't have any picks, big bounces, so we move around all the time. Here's the number of deaths, is that when we compare the previous years then we see that in 2007 it was 236 but since 2008 to 2014. 176, 162, so we're spinning around here all the time in that circle. And I don't think we have anything more significant than saying success than a significant reduction. However, when we look at the total numbers of all counties then we can see that the total number of registered persons treated in 2012 is therefore reduced in 2012 compared to 2011. What county? In Dubrovnik-Neretvanska by 13%, in the City of Zagreb 2%, 32% were treated compared to 2011. Although the rate and treatment rates are very high and extremely high compared to other counties in the Republic of Croatia. In Karlovac County, as much as 60% reduction. Those counties that have an increase in the number of drug users treated for drug abuse are exactly the county of Slavonia and Baranja. Here we have a small stagnation in Vukovar-Srijemska but all these other 4 counties, Virovitica-Podravska, Požega-slavonska, Brod-Posavina and Osijek-Baranja have an increase in the number treated in 2012 compared to 2011. The report is full of tables and I say the data extensively and extensively and the HDSSB club will accept it as such, and it is also warning and we have to turn to situations, that is, to prevent family, to teach parents to see changes in children or situations before the change itself, and then at the school age here came a few days of reporting about landings and we watched TV landings if, today, there is no more. No one's practicing landings, no one's practicing anything. And children, especially in the environments in which they are more developed compared to Slavonia and Baranja, have a lot of opportunities for active leisure from sports, culture, ballet, music, drawing and I don't know what. Unfortunately, there's not too much in Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69700	Thank you, too. We're going to the replicas, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69701	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, in fact, I'm going to start my replica with an incorrect assumption. You mentioned Hungarian experiences and Orban Viktor is not the president but the prime minister, therefore, the prime minister. Maybe that's why you got it all mixed up. But not only you but also other colleagues in this regard, in this debate they debated a lot about addiction as such. However, we are now talking about drug abuses, independence as such, even though addictions are actually a subject that deserves all the attention and attention of this House and the legislator as such. You were saying something about the motivation that young people, not only resort to drug abuse, and you mentioned poor, rich, how rich they might do it more often, I'm not a psychologist, but I can tell you that rich and poor have reasons, though they're different. The poor may seek escape from the harsh reality, the rich may have said to boast in their own, in having things and then resorting to some new experiences. And many great authors wrote about it that I said I wasn't a psychologist, but I know something about literature, and I would suggest maybe ReMarca who wrote a lot about the addictions between the two world wars, so some time of depression, something similar to what we're experiencing today. And a methodology like that can be misleading. There are many elements that enter, so the number of inhabitants, availability of drugs, number of tourists, etc. The comparisons are mentioned in Bjelovar-Bilogor County. It has 119 thousand inhabitants, Istria has 208 so almost twice as many. Also the gross domestic product of the Istrian County is 6% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, Bjelovar-Bilogorska is nowhere near it. And you mentioned at the beginning of your exhibition of practical art, so-called. And you mentioned drinking coffee. I would agree with you here that this is unfortunately a trend, but coffee is not a problem, but the problem is when that coffee replaces alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69702	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69703	Thank you. If you didn't have anything better to say, you didn't have to say it either. Namely, Prime Minister of Hungary, do you know who the president of Hungary is, do you know his name? You know, you don't have a chance to say it now, but I know you don't. So, Prime Minister Orban and I also pointed out that we were talking about drug abuse but I also emphasized and apostrophe of this addiction that is very, very current and that destroys Croatian society, destroys Croatian society entirely. So, I'm not unless Mr. Leco warned me as president of the Parliament to leave the topic, then I see no reason for you to warn me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69704	But, Your Honor, you've gone far too far, estimating a colleague as he is, it's not your job, so instead of warning, it's a warning. Let everyone have the right to their position here is to speak on behalf of their representatives, citizens, and not on behalf of your colleague in the Parliament. Take care of that. New replica and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69705	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Grubisic, you were talking about one non-respect in punishment. I will point out here that we have brought amendments to the Penal Code and these amendments to the Penal Code clearly speak, make clear the difference between offense and punishment, prison sentences. Why? It was because the focus was going towards the real problem when it came to drugs, to the real problem. And the problem is manufacturers or dealers. In this way the amendment of the Penal Code tried to protect itself, in fact it is the protection of the victim because if it is a violation of possession for personal consumption, it is not said that the offence is not a punishment because the punishment is prescribed. I think it's from 5-20 thousand kuna, but most importantly, the possibility of treatment because this addict is a victim. I'm not personally for any joints about it. However, we must distinguish ownership for personal use and of course dealing or production. However, the amount you have indicated is decided by the one who decides to commit an offence. So we don't know what happened before that. Whether it was repeated consumption, whether it's one kilo of marijuana, whether it's for personal consumption, we don't know, we don't know what the case is. Here I wanted to explain the amendments to the Penal Code and it will be very interesting to see the 2013 report when it will be killed because since 2013 this law has been introduced, the amendments to the Penal Code. Therefore, this will be the result of the application of the law which we will receive next year's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69706	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69707	My colleague Bonačić, in a particular case, that it was true that it was repeated that I had not been able to say it there and that's how my time ended. Yes, and as far as drug abuse itself is concerned, you and the vast majority of us here know just how much among politicians, celibates, celebrity celebrities from state and local politics and administrations there are people who have problems with their children in this regard. And as long as we're talking here today, and I believe that many of us are holding on to that kind of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69708	Thank you, too. A new replica, the respected representative Ante Babic has.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When you spoke to Grubisic in your report, you said that parents do not recognise drugs in time and that is mostly when it is too late, and then you started talking part of the action plan which made me happy and certainly this action plan in the drug convention brings results and it is not the Croatian Oasis for drug addicts as someone said today, it has already been very much done and the number of addicts in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced. But what perhaps you should have given more emphasis, which I thought when you started speaking, is the correlation between family, Facebook, and consumption, or abuse of what you were saying. I think it's less said about it in society, and it actually needs to be recognised through social policy for young people, I think about politics in the Republic of Croatia because it's very dangerous, actually that parents, or the family has no control over children, and they actually come up with all the information in that way, and what's worse is to get to those who are dealing these drugs over Facebook, so maybe they should talk about it more. But when an addict happens, then it's only about him, and yet the family is neglected, and it actually happens that through addicts and social and social, and also financially, especially today, the family gets hurt, and then you said that maybe the most controversial situation in Slavonia, and that's why there's also great unemployment that we're all going to agree on, and that's actually the hard way, so that's where we all have to work, and in particular, here you are in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69710	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69711	Thank you very much, colleague Babic, for helping me in the debate and for thinking. When we talk and unemployment, then we know that when kids finish high school and wait and wait and wait for, let's say, bureau jobs, then actually in a large part of their day, actually lost, that's what it might be called, and when a man lost, then you know what happens and get in touch easily. As for Facebook, I wouldn't want to, I hope you didn't think that he was almost exclusively guilty of the possibility and availability, actually contact for drug abuse, but this morning, it seems to me that either yesterday morning the laptop or the computer should be standing in the living room, not in the child's room, so that the parent is always able to look at what that child is doing on that laptop. Now, the laptop, or tablet, is carrying a child in a school bag, so when there are no parents in sight, when it's not close, so today it's very difficult to ban the general information era from going to a network where everything can be available. I don't know how to do that, they tried in Turkey, so you see there's a demonstration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69712	Honorable representative Igor Češek, replica club, within the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69713	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Grubisic, in one part of your debate, you spoke about the availability of drugs, and I want to ask you and the entire Croatian public and society in general how can drugs be so available? If I who come from a small community as an ordinary citizen know where the drugs and the sales and the consumption are, I ask the question how do the police not know, or the ones who should be in charge of coping with drug abuse? So we can only conclude that drug sales are not only good drug dealers, but also other stakeholders of our society. Here I couldn't replicate my colleague Hrga, he well detected the problem of poorly developed amateur sports and I agree with him because Minister Jovanovic promised to invest significant funds in the development of amateur sports, but we saw from the budget that there was nothing from that development. So I'm also a witness to a girl who was very successful in handball, but this handball club doesn't have enough means to transport handball players to handball games and when she came to the parents' turn to drive kids to a handball game she simply gave up training because parents didn't have money for fuel. Do you think that girl is a potential addict?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69714	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69715	Thank you very much, fellow Czech. You've detected the problem well, almost every elementary school is waiting around the corner, behind the corner for those who offer children, so at least for the start of this light drug, marijuana, etc. But you've also detected well that in each of these things, that every dealer's chain is actually a food chain, so it's not one person in that chain, but it's a series, starting with that street dealer, so who knows who. So we're watching movies and everything else, and you see as far as the tentacles of that octopus go, so I wouldn't want to reevaluate the matter with us, nor can I blame anyone, nor do I want to, but it's certainly this free movement and free sales across our cities and in our places it's actually about seeing someone through their fingers. Now, that's hard to talk about. And as for this little girl you were talking about, it's a personal matter and it's hard to tell if she's going to go the wrong way or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69716	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69717	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you have rightly mentioned something that is not and cannot actually be the subject of this report or of those before that, and it would be good to do a comprehensive family survey once. So you mentioned the role of family. We all tend to ask questions often when it comes to such a big problem, what does the state do, what the local community does, what schools do, what teachers do, what teachers do? But what do families do, what do parents do, how is it possible that children up to 18 years old, but all of them up to 18 years old are children, how is it possible that, without supervision, they wander at 2, 3, 4, 5 a.m., they return completely from alcohol, from drugs at 6 a.m.? What are your parents doing? How can they sleep if they sleep? They often go through a line of less resistance, often giving kids money for dating, not wondering, because they run away, there is, and that's what I personally encountered running away from the truth. Even when they find something from the object, the spoon in the room pretend they didn't see it. So what's the role of family? For all the most important things about life and relationship with other people we learn in the family and be polite, and be rude, to be violent, or to respect others, or to disrespect them, to respect them, or to disrespect them, or not to respect them. So that's one of the questions that we should be asking at the centre of attention, and right now when the new Family Law is being passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69718	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69719	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, you on one mother's side said it nicely, actually explained what I was going to say but here on the fatherly side, I may not have been clear enough in my statement when I was speaking in my debate. It's true that here I am, my high school teacher, so I went to town at 1, half two, because he didn't come home until 1:00, so I found them there on Korza in Slavonski Brod, and then five of them were classmates, so he told me what you're looking for me when none of these parents are looking for anyone, and only you're looking for me. I even embarrassed him like I embarrassed him if it turned out like that, and I embarrassed him. But, well, I said throw that little cigar away, 'cause I've never seen him smoke till then, and you're coming home with me. What else could I do? But, look, I was rough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69720	The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Grubisic in your discussion, or you referred to an action plan in your opinion that does not bring results, I would say he may not bring the results that we would like to see. However, I will warn you of some relevant data, namely at the end of last year I was in London in the parliament of Great Britain, which was organised by the Seminar on the reform of drug policies for European, Latin America and West Africa, and I must say that our experiences as representatives representing Croatia were very good in relation to these countries that I am talking about. There were several panels, and among other things, new drugs were discussed on new drug routes and Croatia was mentioned in this context only in that famous Balkan route compared to other countries which, of course, cannot be a comfort for Croatia if we can say so, stands well. However, what parliamentarians or the president specifically warned about the change in drug policies, the common view was that drug policy should not be used or should not be used in the context in which it is often used, which is before some elections for daily policy purposes and so on. So drugs are a serious problem and drugs should be seen that way, not used as a political tool. And all parliaments are also there to create a legislative framework, and I personally think that we do not have such a bad legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69722	Thank you, too. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69723	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that your experiences with this seminar in London compared to other European countries were good and your belief about the state of drug abuse in Croatia was relatively satisfactory when you heard everyone else in Europe. But when you look, let's say statistics and says diabetes, diabetes has 10% of people in Croatia, it's relatively not much, but for those who have diabetes is 100%. He's 100% sick. That's how it is. I also talked about those situations mainly in families where such a person who abuses drugs and who are all complications and possibilities and situations happen, it's a simple destruction of that whole family. And then I talked about some other things. Now it's not an election, and I'm not talking about elections at all, and I'm not talking about elections at all, and I'm not talking about politics, and I'm telling the truth in the hope and faith that I'm going to comment on this report together with you and the rest of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69724	Thank you, too. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first I'll give a little croquet if I can call it that. In Croatia, drug addicts mostly live with their parents or themselves, have at least an SS, and they are supplied by order and house, and the price is not particularly an obstacle to the consumption of marijuana that has been available since 50 kuna per gram or one joint that you can buy for 20 kuna. You can get Marijuana within an hour by delivering to the house or in a public place. For heroin you need a little more than 2 to 4 hours, hashish and methadone you will get within the hour, and cocaine that reaches the highest price within 2 to 4 hours at 500 to 700 kuna per gram. If we compare the price of a joint or LSD available for 50 kunas with the price of a drink in a cafe or on a date, one joint can be enough for three people, of course to be high depending on THC in the grass as we like to call it or as recognised by addicts. Over 80% of addicts in Croatia are men, and almost 60% of consumers take drugs for 10 or more years. As for alcohol, I will take an example of students of eight classes where about 4900 were surveyed, and over 80% of respondents said alcohol was consumed. It is a devastating fact that Croats simply like to peek at a cup more than the average of the European Union. Even 70% of the adults in our country drink alcohol, but drinking resistance is interesting because they are generally prone to claim not to get drunk. This is only the shortest summary of the comprehensive report that has been made before us exhaustively, as well as numerous research done in the Republic of Croatia. Although today we are talking about data for 2012 I would especially like to point out that a great research has been done for 2013 on the availability of legal and illegal drugs in the Republic of Croatia. Although the taste of consumables is changing and the market is constantly facing the emerging phenomena of new psychoactive substances, in Croatia are still the most present marijuana, then methadone and heroin. Speaking of methadone, it is worrying that methadone is being administered intravenously as it is being used as you know in the treatment of addiction and should only be given to a doctor, and it is the opposite. 70% of methadone is obtained in drug dealers and only 17% in doctors. Speaking of supply opportunities, we often hear that drugs are easily available. We heard that from previous exhibitors, and yet again I point to the fact that it is devastating that drugs can be delivered more and more to the house in Croatia. Just as you can order a specter, so you can order heroin, marijuana or whatever you need. In public places or in drug dealers personally, the next step is where you can get it. It is not, of course, a site or online shopping, and a small part of the supply of drugs through smart shops, via Facebook, is equally easily available. Ideas for so-called. Design drugs don't stop, they're just design drugs in constant danger because they don't really know what their substances are. It's mostly bath salts, air fresheners, date, crazy cat, and declarations, for example. It's got scented lamp pots in it to make your space smell better. In fact, they'll be used for smoking, and the bath salts will be used for sniffing. Although consumption trends are being monitored, it is impossible to trace the weekly production of new types of drugs. In the last little over two years, 50 new drugs have appeared on the market. New substances already appear on the market. So-called Legal drug use is fortunately slightly less present in Croatia or perhaps unexplored, but it is known that chemical substances by their molecular structure are very similar to illegal, but enough to be out of touch with the law. When it comes to known substances mentioned in the report, according to the Croatian Institute of Public Health in the Register, treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs last year, more than 32000 people were registered. We have heard, huge amounts are spent on their treatment, and equally huge amounts are spent on suppressing addiction. Still, the number of newly registered addicts is down, but there is a slight increase in the number of treated. The most when we talk about treated people were in Zagreb 23000, then in Split-Dalmatia, Istria, Zadar County, etc. It is within these frameworks or order that drug-related crimes or 10% of total crime are related to drugs. New generations, when we talk about teenagers or younger ones, they're also addicted to cigarettes, alcohol, but they're happy to try new ways of relaxing. The girls and the boys drink the same. Infrequent are the phenomena of smoking alcohol, which is popular among teenagers, and instructions if you did not know are easily available on the Internet. You can have them in video. In the case of consumables, legal restrictions do not constitute any obstacle. Most of them consume alcohol children in Croatia above the European average, unfortunately. The world of drugs and other addictions say the world is searching for its own identity, and parents rarely or rarely see, do not understand or want to see problems and their education in this entire chain is equally important. The social structure of the users has been expanded to all layers of society, although we seem to have heard a conflict of exposure here today. Unfortunately, the age limit is already coming down to primary schools, so early intervention, primary intervention or education has been important since kindergarten. Depending on what is less said, I will briefly touch them, is a cube that is, say those who deal with gambling addicts, equally fatal as heroin, cocaine, or maybe marijuana, as well as alcohol. It is known that alcohol is given to people because of depression, anxiety, etc. There are no specific data on the offenders or gambling addicts, and the easy availability of gambling games is not the happiest solution to socially sensitive policy, reduction and accessibility of such places. We're not, of course, talking about games of good luck to these everyday ones, so you don't get it wrong. The dangers are not just for young people, we are witnessing from our environment as much as they are if you look around at the addiction to the cubes of the destroyed families, leading them to the brink of destruction. All sorts of addictions have their beginning and end. The end usually rarely ends when one life is extinguished, when an addict is the cause of domestic violence, the factor of a socially disturbed picture, when no one asks why and how and where it was the beginning, because only the end is known and it is uncommon with mortal consequences. Every drug is dangerous, and drugs, alcohol, and cigarettes call some and three riders of death. I think it's clear to everyone that the fight against drug abuse of a global phenomenon will not be won. But by preventing and existing legal frameworks, at least we can prevent its effects and consequences. I would not agree that Croatia is any drug destination in Croatia. It's just not true. Croatia is a courteous country, Croatia is open to young people, but also Croatia has its legal regulations, which also requires us MPs in the Croatian Parliament to make what it says in the Action Plan to be implemented. We must also act at local level to implement the action plan as it is written. And finally, because of socioeconomic opportunities, unfortunately consumption and tranquilizers are growing, antidepressants are increasingly taken without control and some also lead to addiction. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Report and also everyone who is not invited to visit the Office for Drugs and I think that the Office for Drugs must be more present in the media. I think he's not present enough in the media. Just as it is commonly said that MPs in the Croatian Parliament speak only once a year about drug abuse problems or all other addictions when the report is under discussion in Parliament. So I call on you to be as active as you are, and of course all the representatives here are here to engage as actively as they can and act preventively and in their environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69726	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the replicas. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69727	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague. Everything you said stands, especially when you said that the availability of drugs to minors, to the younger population, is so accessible. And that's what worries, but it was also an alarm to see how we'd fight that evil. If we could have done that when we were and imagined it in 2003 by amending the Penal Code, because your policy was completely different. We start from the premise, every drug is dangerous. That's what we all agree. But the way to fight drugs isn't to point a blade at minors, to younger minors, but just the opposite of what we did by coming to power by amending the Penal Code to hit on manufacturers, traders, drug dealers, drug lords who are usually never drug users, but were often great guests, honorary guests at the gala charity dinners. So today we also see the State's Attorney's report and from this report how much more effective we are in the fight against such most radical criminals who are often connected to criminal organizations. So such one, we must therefore reduce and thus produce good results. We're on our way. I say too bad, we could be on the road for 10 years and have better results now with better Penal Code where repression will be directed against these, and on the other hand, the introduction of civic education, health education, where these taboo drugs topics should be open with children to talk about not being heroes, but being weak. And that's exactly what we're doing by introducing civic and health education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69728	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69729	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Anticevic, I would not agree with you if nothing had been done before. Let's not start our lives from our mandate, because that's simply not true. As far as drug availability is concerned, as far as child education is concerned. So the deviations in society simply bring new moments both in education and in the family if you want, but everything comes from the family. Therefore, I do not agree with you that at once there was enlightenment when the SDP took over and that everything was going to be okay. So Croatia, like all other countries, has a problem with the growing emergence of new drugs. That's what we need to know, the new drugs that appear on the market every day, and no law can stop it, that's what this is about. It's just a prevention that existed before, a prevention that we need to carry out, and this way we can all the way talk about why someone didn't do something. I think the policy is good for now, that it needs to be changed as other EU countries change it or beyond. All over the world, this problem is growing year by year and of course it changes with changes on the market. One more time I'm gonna say every drug is dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69730	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69731	Dear colleague Glavak, I fully agree with you in the conclusion that Croatia is certainly not some El Dorado for drug abuse. I'm afraid of the debate Mr. Cain led in which he presents Istria as an ideal destination in which he waits for drugs less than for pizza. I'm simply in that information to honestly tell you I don't believe it or maybe I'm stubborn so I don't want to believe it. If anyone advertises come to Istria, you'll be served quickly, you buy a gram, you get two. It's all like the EPP. I think we need it here first of all, we can't do it that way, in my opinion. And secondly, I certainly agree with you on this, through this topic must not be politicized, it must not be politicized by who is as much as possible, how to collect political points here. It knocks, every family can knock on the door regardless of party belongings, to the worldview, to the color of the skin, to the faith, to anything. It's a monster we should stay away from, and we can be happy we're not El Dorado for drug abuse. And I quite agree with you, yes, progress has been made and we need to strive and the changes that I can, it's worrying what I'm going to say a little later in the debate, addicts of the old but this problem is contradictory, more and more of the younger ones that in these easier drugs we say try, in alcohol and something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69732	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69733	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, colleague Vuksic you say was this an EPP for Istria? I don't think it was an EPP. We must never speak of our country in such a context. And I do not agree that we are talking about such a context about the stigmatisation of young people who come to parties in Croatia and who come to festival tourism that we want to develop. So it's unacceptable for us to equate them all if someone comes to the party that means that they'll take LSD, ecstasy, anything and that they'll be inadmissible. So that's why I didn't talk about politics, I was talking about facts. I was talking about what's going on, I was talking about the legislative framework. And it's not true that old addicts are already getting older when they first apply for treatment. They're the ones who are getting older. I'll remind you that most in Croatia, registered addicts take drugs for 10 years and more. And on the other hand, we have a younger and younger population that consumes drugs, or at least once, which drugs are interesting and which drugs are a pattern of behavior. And that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69734	Honorable representative of Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69735	Dear Representatives Glavak, you have made an excellent finding of all these facts, diagnosiss, and I see that you are well-versed in this matter and this study that you have been talking about that defines all of this for how long it can come, etc. However, I have not heard much about the action plan, I think the action plan is something crucial to us. Clearly, we need to have an analysis, we need to know what's going on even though I'm shocked by these statements and this so that as pizza, you can get drugs, that such a situation in society is possible. But then we need to have clear strategies. And today, the Action Plan is on the agenda to see how pleased we are with the action plan and what each of us can help with the action plan to get concrete tasks from local administrations, social organisations, policies and all that we can put into the service of fighting the situation that can be so that drugs can be ordered as pizza. And all that knowing it can't justify all of us not to take over each of us's part of the activity. And then we can't determine the fact that we're not going to win the fight against drugs. If that's okay with us, it's bad for society. So, from us here who are passing laws and laws, to the last citizen, it should be clear what needs to be done and not at all reconcile with the fact that we won't win the fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69736	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69737	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Sanader, there's an action plan. I looked at him briefly, perhaps he was not fully implemented, or he has yet to be implemented. So let's take it one step at a time. Prevention has shown some results, but once again I will say it is not enough. We also have a prevention of addiction, let's say, in jobs. Some EU countries or beyond, for example, will test you for drugs when you arrive at work. Is that prevention? But this raises the question of what kind of chance do we then give the treated addicts to get involved in the working environment, to find their place again in society, then what is the way of their resociation? How does society treat them? So there's a lot of questions and once again I'll just say every day something new appears on the market. And here we are in trouble. We make an action plan there, and I've talked about the precursors just briefly I touched it, so put five substances that are banned this month on the list, and 10 new ones appear to you. And while you put these 10 on the list, here's 10 new drugs again and so suddenly. And that's why she's my finding that fighting drugs won't win, unfortunately, that's how it is. Because the industry of death is always stronger than the industry of life if we can call it so vividly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69738	Thank you, too. Dear representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members, when you were speaking in general about drug addiction not only but also about tobacco and alcohol, you also mentioned law enforcement. So, apart from the repression, other than prevention, we have one very important factor, which is whether laws are being implemented. You know that we also have the Law on restricting the use of tobacco products, we also have the Law on Trade, the Law on Hostage, etc. However, we are also familiar with the various studies of the fact that as many as 50% of the students responded that they could freely enter the store and not ask for their ID card, so they do not ask them how old they are. It also happens with the sale of tobacco products. That's where we're actually also losing the battle on that side. You're gonna tell me where the State Inspectorate is in that whole story? However, what happens in smaller areas? In the smaller environments, you know exactly who these people are that go into inspection. It is known that sometimes there are people in front of store who wait when they pass, the action is announced, they wait when they come and then they act according to the law, the order works rather than to actually protect the children. I'll mention here, I don't know if you know the Crime Prevention Council, where in that Prevention Council there are both the State Inspectorate and all those who should be dealing with addictions, or preventing such things. Here I hope next year, I said on the board, that since there will be a council on crime prevention, or in major cities, that we will expect that there will be such a report because I think it is a very valuable multi-sectoral action in the fight against addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69740	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69741	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Bonačić, in this segment you were talking about, I'll tell you no, the laws aren't being implemented as they should. Any child can enter the store, buy alcohol, drink is available to him, any child can buy cigarettes, especially if someone is looking for a ID card they will be able to manage very quickly and find some adult who will do so for them. At least once a month they say eight-grade students are drunk. So we know how old they are. So that's your answer to your question whether the laws are implemented? The laws don't apply? Where they drink, the question of where they drink and how they come to alcohol in a store which I believe every city and, unfortunately, the city from which I come, Čakovec has one store on duty, so there the children gather and drink, of course, the cheapest drinks available to them at that time or drink in cafes or places to go. They also know as well as alcohol and cigarettes where to get drugs, so they know that it is very accessible to them without being misunderstood in the wrong context, for example at Zrće in nightclubs and in Zagreb in the concierge, these are some favorite places where they know exactly what, when and where they can get it. So, inspectors, yes, but another question that is likely to come up when we're going to talk about a police report and that's officers in the community, when you have a neighborhood cop, that he's going to be miserable all over the neighborhood controlling kids. Then you find him sitting in that same bar and he's actually doing nothing, of course, honoring the exceptions. So, what did we do if we saw those kids that someone sold them alcohol did we do something? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69742	Thank you very much. Croatian Labourists, the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic are on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69743	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. Here it was mentioned earlier, someone mentioned the laws, whether they are implemented or not, it is known that in Croatia we do not enforce the laws, that we do not adhere to the law. We have excellent laws passed by the Parliament, and we don't respect them very well. It's known that there's no drug trafficking and there's no state in which drug trafficking isn't involved and the police, or part of the police, are part of those bad cops, and that's what I don't think there's a man who's going to argue with that. When reading the report on drug abuse should be kept in mind, which also led to a less reduced application, the same happened because of a change in the law, the Penal Code. The second is drug abuse treatment. Two things that were said a little bit, two components of this report that were mentioned, that's certainly a relationship to drug dealers, to those who produce drugs, to those who deal drugs, as we say, and now I'm going to go back a little bit to the State's Attorney's Office's work report. I wonder when the news in Croatian media has been slaughtered lately that some big dealers have fallen in Croatia. The second component we talked about is actually a little controversial, we talked about how much parents care about their children. This stagnation or reduction of drug abuse suggests that he cares, that the family is the foundation, that so much does not worry, let's not say a satisfactory situation because there is no increase in drug abuse. I have a few friends, acquaintances who have big problems about gambling, very little is said in the report, very little we talked about. Gambling addicts also have big, big problems. I know a few people who are also known to have committed suicide precisely because of the cubes or debts that have arisen at the stake. We had a few years ago opportunity and read in the media about it, it happens to us and here, so it's a worrying fact and we're meeting her in the report that every other student at least once or more times gambles. It's a very worrying fact and it's an alarm to parents and it's an alarm to schools, an alarm to society. Recently, data came out who drinks the most? Who drinks the most a yearly pure alcohol? The first are Moldovans, behind it are Czechs, then Hungarians, then Russians, Ukrainians. We're in ninth place. You can see we're somewhere high in the ninth place. Moldaves drink 18.2 alcohol per capita, that counts for pure alcohol, we 15.1, we stay home. That's disturbing. The developments in the creation of a drug criminal policy are visible from this report, and that is to be said publicly, to admit, what's done is done well, it's not good enough, we're not rich enough country and we're not well-organised enough so what Mrs Bonačić used to say, the question is how deep are we getting information about this monster, how many experts we have, and how well are we organised in prevention? The national strategy to combat drug abuse for the period 2012 to 2017 is absolutely certain that it is welcome and the results of these facts we read in the report itself are visible. It is good that the plans include parts of the body of the state administration of the local self-government unit and what is very important and several times mentioned in the reports, which are civil society organisations. This research that colleagues and colleagues have mentioned before me, which is the "Health for Five", an alarming research that has shown that even 81% of students have tasted, tried alcohol once or more, and even 11% have encountered consumption or consumed marijuana or hashish and when it comes to gambling, which is why we need to be very concerned. The Ruđer Boškovic Institute determined by analysis of waste water that the consumption of marijuana in Zagreb has increased steadily compared to 2009, 2012 the rate of marijuana use has increased by 2 times and 200% respectively. It encourages the fact that the heroin consumption rate has fallen and this could already be seen from the 2011 report. But what she used to say before her colleague Glavak, the price of synthetic drugs falls and is in constant decline and synthetic drugs are increasingly available, and therefore these expensive drugs are certainly in the decline of the consumption of these drugs. Looks like heroin and cocaine are too expensive because we're too poor for company. Previously, colleagues and colleagues mentioned an alarming increase in the rate of methadone abuse in Zagreb, and this abuse of methadone is on a continuous rise. Part of the addicts are being treated in the health or non-governmental sector while part of the addict remains undetectable and is in fact the largest questionnaire in the entire report, as many as there are unidentified addicts in Croatia, those addicts who do not dare to apply to treatment because of what we are, we are becoming less and less Stigmatizing drug addicts, yet we are still an intolerant society. A total of 7855 treated persons in 2012 showed that 6477 were men, and only 1300, or fortunately only 1378 women, which shows that men seem more unstable. The proportion of new people in the treatment system of addicts in 2012 was 14.3% less than in previous years. Addictionary, the report says, I don't know. My colleague Glavak said that it is not so that I am in the wrong, addictive population in Croatia more and more old, the report said. Oh, God, that's the way it falls, addict. And it's exactly at the first treatment drug addicts come getting older. The mean first-time treatment is about 25 years, and hospital treatment comes at almost 33 years of age. Although drugs in society are increasingly available and cheaper, there is no significant increase in addicts back several years. In Croatia, a very important low rate of HIV infection is less and less hepatitis B and hepatitis C. As previously said, but should be repeated, 165 people died in 2012 from the causes of psychoactive drug abuse. The heroin overdose has been steadily reduced since 2007. What I said earlier is a very important prevention. Croatian Red Cross and civil society organisations continue to continuously share injections and condoms. It is important to collect infectious waste, clean the environment from discarded equipment, distribute educational material, advise on harmful drug influences, advise on how to protect against blood and sexually transmitted diseases. We said if we knew the causes of drug abuse, we'd be sure to protect ourselves. The report states that there are two basic reasons for the social exclusion of young people, and this is also the cause for the abuse of young people, which is giving up education which can be more of a reason for this, not caring, lack of property, environmental impact. And secondly, it's an inability to hire. And we know that we're high here too, we're third in the unemployment of young people behind Spain and Greece, and that's an alarming piece of information that we don't take care of enough, and it's absolutely certain that these statistics will deteriorate when it comes to drug abuse if we don't solve youth employment. Before it was asked,... sports courts will certainly enable young people who come from high schools, colleges to work, and we know that more than 50% of young people in Croatia are unemployed and have no chance of being employed in such a short time in a few months or years. Very important for this topic is the project to resociate addicts and it starts to be implemented more intensively. I repeat, they are very important to prevent exactly the activity of the NGO, the activities of many numerous organisations, and it is very important to spread tolerance in Croatian society because in a tolerance society there will be a much easier life of addicts and much easier treatment of addicts than in an intolerant society. All in all when it comes to the report itself Croatian Labourists will support the report but some of this data should be taken seriously, but should not present them in a way that we would tell all those from other counties from other cities or other countries that Croatia or parts of Croatia are El Dorado for drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69744	Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69745	Well, a colleague might agree with you on everything you've been saying. You spoke objectively, in addition to having to react to what you said the police didn't have such a drug trade without being involved by the police in some way you said so. Maybe we could say that about some other stores but with drugs, no. If our police are anywhere in the entire environment, and even in Europe, they're ahead of the drug trade. You'll see if you Google you'll find all the headlines of almost every little media report, the police found 219kg of drugs on the border, the police found 7kg of marijuana, etc., etc. This is now the latest news since the end of last year and the beginning of this year. Therefore, not only is training and preparedness, and if there are doubts about any kind of hearings, it may at least seem in this particular drug trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69746	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69747	Dear colleague Anticevic, I disagree with you. There's no hard crime in any state that doesn't involve parts of the police, cops. Police inspectors called in when the raids were going to take place. And we know that from the cases from the media trials and we'd be an ideal society when our officers, some of the police officers as we know it, say the bad cops they have in all the systems in the most democratic societies, the most orderly societies in Croatia, are unfortunately not the ones in which those bad cops don't participate. Anyway, from talking to some inspectors when I asked the good question, let's just say the boss, which is why you're going into interrogation, because I don't trust some people in the police. That's what it was and that's what it's going to be, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69748	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69749	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you spoke of prevention as a very important factor in the fight against addiction, and we all agree here today. I must stress that the preventive programmes were very many and there are musts of preventive programmes, but in this respect one shift was made. In fact, the preventive program is the question of which is good, the question is whether an evaluation has been made, which we will choose, which will be the most effective for this fight. The Committee for the Monitoring and Coordination of the Youth Prevention Programme has been established at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, in the system of social care. As far as I know the office has begun, I don't know if the database on preventive programs has been completed, which is one big step forward. Now it follows that the waist tells its own, that such preventive programmes are being evaluated because I think that's how we're going to channel funds to the real problem. I'll tell you just one local community, you know that the city is the founder of school, you have 6 schools and 6 different preventive programs, everyone praises theirs, now it's up to us to do the evaluation of these programs, or to choose one because at least one city can go to a preventive program by school. So here's what I think a big step is being made, that we're going to have a base of preventive programs where the waist will say again what's important. Because when you look at the very definition of addiction, it's a self-destructive habit that interferes with the functioning of a person. Thus, we need to change lifestyles in this way, we need to teach these young people habits to say no. This is why preventive programmes, or those most effective after evaluation, are very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69750	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69751	Dear colleagues, Šimac-Bonačić, certainly prevention is the most important and a step forward and a big step forward. After all, the data on this, statistics show that we have made progress in this, and that is what we should be proud of, and that should be pointed out. That's why I said I was against this propaganda part. If we were the opposite, we weren't. There may be a crisis in Istria at this point, but we need a slightly different approach. And certainly, experts need to talk about what prevention is best, which is good, which is worse prevention, certainly not us in the Parliament, especially us who are not doctors. You doctors certainly have far greater knowledge of this and you can assess more professionally. But it's very important what I was saying about the atmosphere, tolerance is very important to people just self-destructive, so we accept them, to influence them as a society, it's very important. Because what Mrs. Glavak said when she talked about testing, means a sword with two blades, on the one hand, a good test of people coming to work, on the other hand how you're going to be tolerated, actually where the limit is between those two things. And prevention is one anti-depression in society. We have become a depressed society, and it is certain that these indicators are still when we compare how depressed we are as society and in what state the situation is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69752	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69753	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you spoke of gambling among others, said you knew and knew about suicide cases, exactly, but you should always point out the fact that gamblers actually kill, so much for their own family, so they don't literally, but they do figure out how to say it in the area where I was born, and the house and the property and everything that gets their hands and actually kill both women and children. They're mostly men. You also mentioned drinking, so alcohol addiction. The data that is presented at the beginning of nearly five surveys conducted, a survey of nearly 5,000 children, so eighth grade students, first and second secondary schools, shows that 81% of them actually drank. I wonder how it's possible that, we've banned alcohol advertising, but how is it possible that you know well that on all our televisions it's advertising for example beer that's not as common as alcohol, and through these ads it's actually sending a message that the one who drinks beer is great, that it'll be great, that he'll be a good friend, a friend, that he'll enjoy society, that everything will be great and everything will get better. Children of that age, and of course students of seven, six classes, etc., who drink a bottle of beer are drunk and thus gain addiction and thus enter the world of alcoholism. So we would have to answer these questions as advocates to this debate. Of course there will be those who will immediately say you're trying to kill that industry, that production, but now we're talking about the problem of alcoholism as an addiction and we need to give some answers to these questions as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69754	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69755	Dear colleague Kosor, who drank five or more beers knows that beer isn't just food, he felt that beer wasn't just food. Now that you're talking about addiction and when you're talking about gambling there's actually very little time to talk about it, the fantastic example is Dostoyevsky, one of the biggest, in my opinion the greatest writer and his works and the way he wrote works and which is why some works were created, and they were created because he was in great debt. They'd lock him up in the rooms and he'd have to finish his novels in time to pay back his gambling debts. It's this positive side that certainly not everyone else has. I had in the evening list of one associate who came to me and told me when I was transferred to another job, says I'm an addict, don't lend me money, don't trust me, but try to protect me from yourself. None of the editors, none, very few editors wanted to work with him at all in the Evening List, in any other working environment so that our relationship with people who are addicts should be far more humane, far away and perhaps even more professional, and then you need to consult how to work with them, how to communicate with them, how much trust you have, etc. What you said about advertising, I'm sure we'll get opponents of those beer manufacturers along with these other opponents. Beer, it's a make-up that beer is food. Beer is alcohol, because if it weren't for alcohol, it wouldn't have written how many percentages of alcohol there are. And you have beers that are stronger than wine, those who beer well know that they have more percentages of alcohol than they have wine. We have very little in the specialized shops of these beers that have 13-14% alcohol, therefore the food that drinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69756	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69757	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Vuksic, I'm going to go for a beer, I don't think we're gonna end up here in the middle of a drink alone. There's soft beer, too, but I don't think it's very popular, or maybe spending is very small. But you were talking about an action plan. It's exactly what I partly said in my presentation and said, however, based on the National Strategy. So prevention selective, initiated universal, prevention of workplace addiction. So it's all something that exists in the Action Plan. But let's see and give him a chance to spend it. Speaking of that part about the police, I'm going to tell you just some new trends, so that's what your colleagues said at the conference. So, one panel was money laundering and online trends in drug trafficking, so they focus on international anti-drug efforts, so money laundering and problem solving, so-called. fake companies, drug cartels. The panel presented the panel with legislation on the fight against money laundering and bank managers working in practice to actually address the complexity of the whole problem that is happening in the online market that is just waiting for us. So, the police will have more to do, not just the one we expect from them on the street, the arrests, the interception of so-called. Balkan routes, seized quantities of marijuana or other drugs or opiates. And therefore, criminals are very innovative, and they are rarely connected, involved in banking systems because this huge money that comes from drug trafficking, and we know it's really a huge amount of money and serious amounts that have to be washed somewhere. I guess that's clear to everyone, but that's what's waiting for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69758	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69759	My colleagues, Glavak, drug dealers or drug dealers are very innovative, so we know that there are those methods when they say how much drugs have dropped that their tactics exist, the strategy that some drugs have to fall, that they themselves are working in such a way that the police are satisfied. There are countless examples of that. Their imagination can be seen and in practice itself, in practice I don't really know what's going on. I can see what the reports say, what I hear from others, because I'm not one of those who's had the chance to consume anything or be in direct contact with either drug dealers or with that world. I'm not one of those politicians who brags about "I'm a rehearsal." I'm not and I don't think I'm denied anything. But I agree with you that preventions never enough, on job prevention, should be well thought out in what way, by which approach and that people who work, who fight drug trafficking, against drug abuse should be increasingly imaginative, increasingly educated, increasingly informed in order to actually get to that monster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69760	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69761	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy, representatives of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. I will begin to point out again that we are discussing, so that the report is ahead of us and that we are discussing phenomena in the prevention of drug abuse, everything that has been done at the state and local community level in 2012, I would say to too far in 2012. And that's why I appeal that, in fact, with all the reports, and especially so important, so sensitive that they talk about trends where in a year and a half, a lot of things can change, talk and discuss on time. So, we now have no data in this report, no relevant data on what the trend is after the amendment of the Penal Code. This is what we have to deal with, so after the amendments to the Penal Code that came into force at the beginning of last year and of course I think that these reports must, they must have influence through the conclusions that Parliament would make about what laws we will make, what budget we will make for the next year and of course what decisions we will generally make. So, when we talk so late about what happened in 2012, what were these phenomena, what was going on, what direction did it go I think we were late. So my suggestion is that we get all the reports and discuss them in time, especially once again, a report that tells us about how this hell of a drug affects our children and young people. I will also mention something that is recorded at the beginning of this study about how many young people, how many children at such a sensitive early age as eighth grade elementary school or first, second grade high school as we see drinking 81% is and consider the fact that children are absolutely reluctant, regardless of what it is, they probably admit that they consumed alcohol, so they drank. However, it seems even more frightening to me that a little less than 4,000 children among whom this poll was conducted almost every other or every other student had gambled at least once or more times. Gambling is a dangerous addiction. I had a chance in the community led by Mrs Bernardica Juretic to meet young people who are there because of gambling addiction. That's scary. So, the stories of these young people, almost children about how they got into this world of addiction and how they're trying to get out of it is terrifying. So almost at the same level as the impact of drugs. So we should pay more attention to that. So I suggest that the next report concentrates specifically on this kind of addiction. By the way, I forgot to say the report is very well-assembled, very well-conceived with the brilliant and consistent data listed. And the report is for whoever wants and wants to read provides plenty, countless information on which all state institutions and institutions at local level should make decisions. This is also the information on expenditure, so on funding, on budgets, on money that has been allocated in order to deal with drug abuse in a timely and effective manner. So last year, I'm sorry, I'd like to talk about last year, so in 2012, that was 622 million, less 120 million than the year before 2011 and less than 2010. This certainly doesn't have to mean much, but we certainly have to realize that in 2012, state-level funds fell in the fight against drug abuse. What is visible from this report on state-level financing of state institutions and local levels is that we rely mainly on what the state will do. Because that also tells us that at local level, so in the county, there are just over 12 million kunas, and 622 at the state level. And that's where I would agree with the debate, part of the debate, Mr. Caine, who mentioned and pointed out particularly the Istrian County. It is important to compare the data on how much has been sent to all forms and preventions and the fight against drug abuse, 500 thousand kuna, and when you look at the number of people treated with addiction, it is 840 in Istria County. In the Primorje-Gorski County, 758, while the Primorje-Gorski County singled out more than 4 million and 600 thousand kuna. However, there is yet another piece of information that no one has pointed out. Vukovar-Srijem County in 2012. 148 people were treated, reportedly treated with addiction, a year before 68. But there's no record of funding for that county. So, in the section of the funds that have been allocated, a line is written from which I conclude that the county, although it has an increase of 100% and more than 100% of the addicts treated, has not singled out a single lip. And this is the data of course which we have the right to debate here and of course to ask how it is possible that in that county I repeat had 148 people who were treated jump with 68 2011 that no lip was invested. Or maybe it's a misunderstanding. If this is a misunderstanding, I would like to ask the same representatives of the government who put together or participated in drawing up this report to tell us what this is about. Because it's impossible, the state can single out billions of dollars to stop drug abuse if the local level where young people live, where they go to school does nothing, if they don't react and if they think it must always return to the government, any government being, at the Ministry of Youth, Family, etc. Of course, I'm also relying on a replica from a moment ago where we talked about the role of family. The role of family is inevitable. It all starts in the family, and it all ends. It is impossible for the family to be completely bypassed when we talk about preventing drug abuse and addiction in young people. I'm talking mostly about young people, and of course there are more and more of those who are older and are still consumers. But it just shows that over the years society, the state, the community, the family failed in some cases and that these addicts are slowly getting old but still still spinning in the same hellish circle. Mortality, 165 people died due to drug abuse. It is important, and it is good, to compare 2007 and 2012. It means 2007. 236 persons, 2012. 165. So, let's have one piece of information that says that at least mortality is going down. However, it absolutely cannot calm us down, nor should it distract us from fighting with the same intensity against those who deal, those who produce, those who protect them and those who do absolutely nothing. When you look at where the highest mortality is, it is the largest in Zagreb, 54 people in 2012 unfortunately died. After that, Split-Dalmatia County, 18, Osijek-Baranja with 12 and interesting and good Bjelovar-Bilogor County in which no one died because of drugs or as a consequence of drugs. This is an important information no matter what it is and so far there has been a debate on why there is more, why somewhere less where people more and better or better live it is a data that is relevant and should be commended. As it is especially necessary at local level to highlight those who do nothing and think that they can observe everything and that there are much, much more important things because these data on addiction are of course reflected in both the economy and that they are important, absolutely important in this context because it is about young people who should be educated and working. So, our main goals must be to prevent, of course, education and not just young people, but certainly their families, to suppress availability, so this is one of our important goals, treatment and rehabilitation. So no young life should be left to itself. Unfortunately, those who have fallen into the world of drugs, who often end up in prisons, must be accepted by society. Society has to take care of them and if we save one such life and if we manage to get the young or the girl back on the path where there is no addiction then we have really done a lot. So, resociation which means both education and employment, there were such projects I don't know if they're in effect today, so they are, great in the prison system it's important because it's for many end times and it seems like the end of the road to end up in prison after all. There it is necessary that we deal with this person and try to train him to get out of prison and be expelled from prejudice, contempt, insults not to give up but to remain on what we call the right path. And for the very end, since there have been a lot of words about how sport is important tools in the fight against addiction, the practice of young people prevents sports from the world of drugs, etc. On the other hand, we are aware that there are people today and very important in the world of sports, those who are often masters of many who are involved in sports, who we know to be addicts and who we know to be bitter in this evil but are still respected members of society. So, as long as the conviction is not equal to everyone, no matter what anyone's name is and who's important to us, we won't move further away from these results we have in the report. Of course we'll accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69762	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac Bonačić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69763	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, you mentioned alcohol. We are aware that this is a major problem when we talk about addictions and, of course, that it should be kept in mind and that such major problems should be made aware. I'll tell you, one research my colleague was doing among the graduates is doing a screening test on drinking alcohol. Also a terrible fact that these young people, graduates, are already 15% after that screening test that they have a real problem with alcohol, imagine 15% of graduates have a drinking problem. So, what is it? It's a video of the situation when you look at it, what about next? The question is how to early discover, or raise the public, on the feet and on the parents, and that is what we should be working on problematizing this drink. But with these commercials going, with the beer commercials we've heard today, I think we're losing that battle. That's what you really need to work on. Another problem with drinking occurs when a child comes to the ER, you know, you heard, we see from the media pumping very often. However, there is no protocol to come forward, nor to the child’s competent doctor, parents eventually call, parents then, and that remains, there is no further working with those children even though they have experienced it at very few years of age and in the end when you said that we should worry. I'm saying that our government is already worried about amending the Penal Code because by amending the Penal Code that way, we've actually directed the punishment against the guilty and we're protecting the victim because every addict is a victim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69764	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69765	Thank you very much. Well, yes, on that subject you touched, we could really run a special debate and do it. Maybe it's not a bad idea to actually make a round table in Parliament just on the subject of drinking, to invite experts, to see what we as parliament could still decide, in which direction we could change some laws. A lot of times we talked about family law, I said he's changing now, so that one provision still in effect, that a child up to 16 years without a parent's escort or a person whose parents trust can't be on the street, street or a bar, etc. Of course, neither does anyone performs it, and occasionally the police may react, so ask young people and girls how old they are to be identified. It's over and I'm back again and always on the family. So, very often in many cases that I personally know about when young people were breaking into this horrible world of drugs from which it was terribly difficult to get out, the family was indifferent or the family relationship was abandoned or it was about families where there was no love or understanding where no one was talking to him. So this should also be devoted to school because it is certainly not enough just to learn mathematics, physics, Croatian language, to learn how to live with other people. At the end of the KZ, I said, the Penal Code has been amended. We should really know today what the results of the law that came into force on January 1st, 2013 because now it will be a year before we discuss it, so my appeal is to hurry it up and see which direction we may need to change some....
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69766	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69767	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Kosor, you have well noticed that the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Istria, together, are, in fact, looking at the number of drugs treated for drug abuse, account for 25% of all Croatia, which is 1600 people out of 6500, and these two counties in the total population of the Republic of Croatia are 12.5%, so there is a double rate of treatment compared to the number of inhabitants of Croatia or the rest of the county. You were also talking about gambling. We know that many mothers who go to work, and where now, at shopping malls, they give their children 10 kunas for breakfast, buns, gables, whatever you want, and the first 100 meters when they get to school at the bookies, they spend it in a bookie. That they don't know it at all, so these mothers, these parents, they don't have any knowledge of it. And secondly, in fact the third thing I wanted to look back is that you talked about it, so resociation of the procedure after staying in communals, etc. and about the resociation of Croatian society. Here, I would just repeat one thing, come on a Christian saying, no one was born alone, and no one is dying alone, so we're all parents and society, first of all, responsible for those cases that come from the commune and still go to the commune. So no one was born alone and no one dies alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69768	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69769	Just so I can change this last one a little bit. So no one was born alone, but unfortunately there are those who die alone, abandoned and forgotten. Yeah, he's got them, he's got them, and there's not so few of them. You mentioned malls where parents actually get rid of, let's wake up, kids, not to bother them there, give them 10 or I don't know how many kunas. It's also like, one phenomenon that I don't personally understand. Many families spend days, weekends, I've heard about strangers, and I've been amazed, so there's a weekend at some big mall, there's a walk there all day, kids are given this, then they're eating pizza, then I don't know what. So that's another argument we had about the controversy earlier, the family. Isn't it better to stay home, get the kids into cooking lunch, tell them stories, read? Yes, yes, but it requires engagement. When we're tired, when we're tired of everything, when we're mad at the boss, when we're angry at our wife or wife, when everything gets on our nerves, then devote yourself to the kids, of course, looking for additional engagement. So, let's remember some other times, it's not regrettable of other times, but it's the fact that families must have been getting more together. The family that spends a day at the mall for me and in my opinion has a problem because whether money is being spent or not, the fact is that there is actually a consumer society, something that certainly does not support any family.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69770	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69771	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I am a supporter of the fact that times have changed a little bit. The more modern the way of life, the greater the dangers, the challenges for both families and children of the family. But there's often talk of young troubled people here, young people going out in late nights, having fun, drinking, and taking drugs. I was particularly opposed to that amendment of the law, Penalty, when the use of easy drugs went into the sphere of offense, because it's already one time towards that so-called. The trendy way of life where it is actually treated as a positive, and Croatia is unfortunately not the Netherlands so that you can afford it, that culture is completely different. As far as responsibility is concerned, it's a very important question for my parents. You know, a lot of cases are when parents completely neglect their children, they have a lot of them, the more social the situation is, in some cases the number of children is bigger. I personally know one example where a young girl when she was 18 has become pregnant, and by now she has four children, all four are in a home, social care has taken those children, and she has given herself up to drugs, alcohol, and the like. So society should, apart from protecting marriage as a community of men and women, protect the family in a way that parents should be responsible in a society in which they live for their children because no local chief, mayor or mayor can do anything if their families are resting on unhealthy foundations. And what's most important and saddest, at this point in our lives, is the economic crisis, which is less money in our wallet, you know when someone can't pay the direction, then comfort finds something to drink and people like that don't mind. The state needs to ensure better living conditions, ensure jobs to reduce the number of unemployed, and to increase the number of employees, then there would be less booze and less concern in these families, I am 100% sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69772	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69773	Well, I resent anyone who drinks a little more because I think it's people of weak will who can't master themselves. So, I think that's bad. You mentioned easy drugs, so no easy drugs. Every drug is dangerous, every drug is absolutely dangerous because every drug in some way can act on the development of children who often try marijuana at that age, so every drug is a very, very dangerous drug and I didn't agree with the amendments to the Penal Code as well because we'll see when the results come that we don't have yet in which direction it went. Public condemnation is society's condemnation, it has to be permanent. For the fourth time, if we say that there are some light drugs, then that condemnation seems to be being removed from a particular section of that vicious circle. And you mentioned the family, yes, the family is at the heart of everything but it is absolutely and completely in all our discussions, did you mention the Constitution and the provision of protection and sanctity of marriage in the Constitution, however, in the Constitution of course there is a provision that says that the state in a special way protects family and family values, youth and children. Only the Constitution is one thing and the letter in the Constitution is one thing, and practice is often quite unfortunately something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69774	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69775	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues, Kosor, two things moved me to a replica of you. First of all, I think you've detected very well that everyone should be involved in the prevention of drug abuse not only by the state but also by all other institutions that are not always state-owned but all other institutions of society. So I speak from family, teachers, schools, churches, and various other forms of organization that work with young people, but not only young people, but also those older ones who can often fall under the temptation of drug abuse. The other thing I wanted to replicate to you is, you are so I believe in the Croatian Parliament is a unique phenomenon in terms of the wealth of your political résumé. And that's why I think names like Orban Victor.. Gordon, Fenec Gyuresany means something to you like to me or to say... Janos, Schmitt Pool, so these are the names of the Hungarian politics that I am extremely following. I believe that you also mean some things that are curient in Hungarian politics, for example, a reduction in the number of representatives in Orszagyules, excuse me not to use foreign words but I think that illustrations are necessary, changes in the cost of Hungarian then let's say the restructuring of the MAV in MAV-START or changes in the name from... to the Magjarozag. And that's why if you think I'm banging nonsense or saying it by heart, I'll accept your court for your political CV, but I won't have any other colleagues' flat-rates like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69776	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69777	Thank you very much. I certainly think that I belong to those who think politics is the same business as any other business that we change through time and that it is a very important experience, so politics in one part is as crafty as any other and in politics should be constantly learning, and that's where I agree. Of course, both colleagues Orban and Bajami and these were prime ministers in my prime time, I worked with them, of course, and Gyuresany before that, etc. but I wouldn't talk much about Hungarian experiences right now because I would always go back to Croatian experiences and argue that when it comes to such sensitive and important issues, because this is an important issue for the state, that as little politicizing as possible, and the more we talk about concrete data, results and the more we propose to be active. We can also suggest something that may not be quite right at that moment, but the one that suggests looks into the future and thinks actively.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69778	Vanya Posavac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69779	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Kosor, here I agree with you that not all states can do but that in this identification of addiction is important and local community but also parents. In fact, local community institutions can very well identify which places are and what is the time where and when certain funds can be reached, but we also have another problem, namely sometimes local institutions do react but parents do not respond to the call. We have a case here recently in Bjelovar where the police call their parents because the child is in an alcoholic state and still used drugs, parents literally respond to what you are harassing us by morning will sober up and unfortunately do not want to come for the child. I'm particularly attached to one of the problems that you've highlighted is gambling and especially betting. I have to point out as a long-term classroom and a school employee that gambling becomes one of the biggest problems in high schools, especially because it's hard to identify where the child is and what he spends money on. Parents even consider it a game from the beginning until the problem of stealing from their parents gold, jewelry, money, and so on. And I, as a classroom, literally on the last with the welfare center, was walking into these gambling houses where you don't even have the legal authority to get that kid without a parent out, so to speak. And there's one problem that's not highlighted enough, but it's getting bigger. Today, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County was mentioned, and you mentioned that drug addiction is not a problem for us, but I am not running away from the problem another problem exists in Bjelovar-Bilogor County, which is alcoholism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69780	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69781	That alcoholism is a terrible problem, it's a real addiction, and unfortunately we're not always willing to condemn it very much because it's part of tradition and it can't be celebrated or marked, nor end often times a day without a little drinking. You mentioned parents, parents very often ignore the problem. I personally know of a case where the police told their parents that their son, age 18, 19, was in a bad alcoholic state with some I don't know two passed by there and that it would be good for them to come and get him. It was in some early hours, and the parents were literally answering not to disturb them because now they need to get some sleep because tomorrow they're going to work, so let the boy be there, he's safe and warm so let him get sober there. So this clearly speaks of what we've done as a little bit of a topic, a family relationship, a relationship between society, a state, a state, is expected to do everything. We didn't mention the media, so that's where the media is. I was talking about a beer commercial. It seems that we are the people, or that we are the society most likely to drink beer, and that's something great, that's something great. But I repeat, a 14-15-year-old kid who drinks a bottle or two beers, I believe he can't get off the table. So let's look at the programs, and let's look at the programs on all our televisions, from local to national, fighting in politics, arguing, insults, but I'm sure today's debate on this report will be minimal, and in some media absolutely not one single second, not one second.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69782	Thank you. Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69783	Thank you. My colleague Kosor, it's no secret that it's a drug use, that it's a drug abuse, that it's an addiction of this kind of escape, so some kind of escapism from reality, and it seems to me that in principle we're methodologically wrong to approach when we're talking not drugs, that we should say yes, what, and not what. Yes to life, to what's the opposite of drugs. With this very approach methodologically looking at it is negative, certainly negative in a valuable sense, I don't think it's enough to point out what's for, which is, what can one methodologically get closer to young people. To talk about family, that family is the center of a drug universe or a point that will cure it, I don't think so, family is in crisis, not in Croatia, in general, it needs to be redefined and told what the modern family is at all. After all, there are no Robinsons, we live in a global universal society, we're part of the world's movements, it's our homeland. Our country is the world, this globe, and let us forget that Croatia will be something of a Robinsonian, some kind of island of happiness, flowers and beautiful breezes. Not the other way around, they smoke these sad south, they smoke various... and unpleasant climates, from social to these time-consuming words. And let's forget, he says that family will solve everything if she gets better and stuff like that. Well, the old Incas have brought you laws if you rape a priestess who was a virgin, etc. You kill your parents first, then the whole place, etc. It didn't solve the matter, although none of them were raped there, but it doesn't solve it today. And secondly, it's really a big business, and unfortunately, we're the victims of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69784	Thank you very much. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69785	Yes, colleague Jurjevic, it's an interesting replica of yours. I didn't, and I hope you didn't figure it out in any way, idealized the family in that sense that it would be like you said the point of the drug universe, so the family is all-powerful and all-powerful and we're isolated. Of course, there's a lot of stuff opening up, this horrible South, big waves coming up, opening up... Of course, kids who have been on the Internet since the early days, of course, come into contact with everything, but I'm still asking where the parents are to control it. It is the duty of parents, it is their constitutional and legal duty to control them. I don't idealize my family, and it doesn't have supernatural power, but you also know that families where parents are violent, very often or most often, children become violent themselves. So families where there is no love and no respect and where you don't learn to respect and respect others is a family where there will be more frequent occurrences of this evil that we are talking about today, where a parent has to ask a question if the child is 4 hours on the Internet wait for what you were doing, what you followed, what you were doing. If he does not have insight or if he does not care what is also often the case, then he should ask if this family really has a problem. So I'm not idealizing but we can't skip it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69786	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69787	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, you've talked a lot about local self-government should play a stronger role in this, and that's absolutely correct. We just need to be aware of one fact, one reality we're talking about. So in order to do something like this at local level, regional self-government needs first funds, and today we are exposed to a rough one to say so to a system that daily reduces funds for local self-government, reduces resources for schools, for other institutions that need to work, and today we have come into a situation that we actually have to worry about how to get the students out of the way, how to pay for the heating, and it's very difficult to find in that system some new funds that are needed to upgrade. But an absolute local self-government should participate more, but it especially requires funds. And what my colleague Bonačić was saying is, you need that system from the top down. He must be connected and elaborated. We have today as anyone remembers, as anyone succeeds, as anyone applies for a contest, and then some program goes by, that program takes a month, two, three days, and then nothing happens. That's one big problem. So I say, funds, systems, and after that, activity and demand. You also said that as far as sports are concerned, there are people in sports that could be spoken of as drugs as bad, probably in terms of a bad example. And I'm asking a question, and what about the people in politics? So what about those politicians who are in election campaigns, they often say to voters that I've consumed easy drugs. Where's the message? Let's get a little bit out of it and then go back to the family and everything else that stands and what we certainly need to cultivate, build, strengthen so that the system can develop better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69788	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69789	I agree with you. So, all of them, all the people who are public, who by their behavior, can by their actions be a role model to young people and athletes and sports workers are most often just you. So people are interested, young people are interested in football, they're interested in basketball, they're interested in other sports. That's what they're following, and that's where they see some patterns. But I certainly don't think a lot of politicians are a role model for young people. But I agree that anyone who stands out as something important and good and as a recommendation to voters that he was on drugs during some period, that he should be absolutely convicted. However, it is much more important to say that there are those who have never said it publicly and who hide it and who are hypocritical and I think that those who advocate one value live a different life are even more dangerous when we talk about politicians than those who speak honestly. As for the local level. Yes, I agree with you. There's got to be money. The state gave 622 million, the local community, means 12 Countys, and there are those counties I talked about that gave zero. That's impossible. So that's where you should see the reasons and the causes. It is impossible for any county in Croatia to single out any kuna to prevent or fight addiction. It's impossible no matter what difficulties some county has found itself in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69790	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Damir Cain is gone, so he loses his right to debate on this point. Domagoj Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69791	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with my colleague Kosor when she says this is an extremely important and serious topic for Croatian society, that this should not be a place of politics, nor politicising, and therefore I will focus my debate on several points that I consider extremely important about this issue. First of all, let me also begin my debate to begin thanking Mr. Petkovic the principal of the office and his associates who gave me some more insight into other additional materials especially about the problem I was interested in. Very spotlessly, very quickly, and I believe that it has also helped my debate to be as professional as possible and as high-quality as a small contribution to a general debate in this House of Commons. In their discussions before their colleagues and colleagues, they often referred to the National Action Plan and the Strategy to combat drug abuse, and they often highlighted certain segments of the plan. But I don't think anyone has listed it, so individually, all of these six fundamental areas, and I find it extremely important. First of all, coordination. So, counterpart Šimac-Bonacic also spoke first of all that the fight against drug abuse must be co-ordinated among several ministries, among several offices, among several institutions. That's what my colleague Kosor was talking about. So the wider segments of society, not just the state, although we are discussing state measures here, should be involved in this fight. The reduction in supply and demand of drugs is of course one of the essential areas, then monitoring, information system, research and evaluation as well as international co-operation. I'd like to put a special emphasis on my debate right now. That's also mentioned. But the simple fact is that one kuna that is invested in prevention is 4 saved in treatment. So, I'm only talking here about the means that the state has later set aside for people who are being treated for addiction, and not to say how much it is, so by preventing how many young people are actually prevented, that is, deterred in order to destroy life forever and not just themselves, but most often to their environment. So, to your family, to your loved ones, friends and so forth. I would also stress the importance of the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in Educational Institutions. So through existing objects but also through some extra curricular activities. Children and young people are informed and educated about drug harmfulness. So, first of all, I mean physical and health culture, nature, or biology, class class class class, etc. This will, of course, also play a role in health, or civic education. So, education and informing young and public children about drug harmfulness is extremely important. Last year, when we discussed this report for the previous year, a discussion about how much information can actually deter potential users from drug abuse, namely the fact that information sometimes has a opposite effect. So that young people and children know what drugs are available, what their actions are and how to get to them. However, on one occasion and I would dare say even a banal example, we still agreed that such measures yield results. For example, it's just one funny case I mentioned last time, but I believe that it would be useful to mention it and this time they're warning on cigarette boxes. Tobacco cigarettes do not belong to intoxicating drugs, but we will all agree that they are also one big health gambling in Croatia and not only in Croatian society, and consumption of the same. It was these warnings that deterred some people from, that is, eating tobacco. I'll just tell you an example of my friend who when he buys cigarettes, if he gets a pack of cigarettes that says tobacco smoke or tobacco consumption reduces sperm mobility, then he says please give me the pregnancy thing. So, it's a bit of a funny example, but still people read it, people notice it, and I believe that the new EU regulation that prescribes even bigger inscriptions even photographicly, means pictures of the lungs and the brain of smokers will have further effects. Treatment programmes and resociation of addicts are also extremely important. In fact, addiction can be treated, addiction is curable, and it is extremely important for a person who wants to be treated and, unfortunately, there are some who never even get to this stage but also those who have any possible help in the same. Also, in the resociation and re-entry of society not only because of individuals and their environment but also because of society as a whole, because they can also be the only ones that will contribute to this society later. So the Croatian average is 272 addicts to 100,000 inhabitants. Some will say it's a bit, some will say it's a lot, I'd bring a personal assessment that would be much happier if it were less. But if we're talking about some world averages, we're not at the top, thank God at least yet. I would also specifically refer to a burning problem, which is the emergence of new drugs. New drugs so-called are an extremely big threat for a number of reasons. First of all, rapid market occurrences are not controlled most often when they occur, have drug-like effects but are also most often synthetically produced drugs that have a much more destructive impact on the organism of the consumer. I'm going to give you just one example that's still relatively fresh, and that's a dezomorphine, or popularly called crocodile. I believe you've all heard of the destructive action of this drug that thank God there is not in Croatia. Therefore, it is limited only to the Russian Federation market, i.e. only in those areas where there are no other intoxicating drugs in the offer. And we even witnessed some kind of panic when some cases of abuse so-called abuse were discovered in neighbouring Serbia. "the crocodile," however, it can also be traced through Russian immigrants who brought these drugs. Fortunately, there's no demand for such drugs on our market, so it's not even available. I hope it doesn't. In 2012, 73 new compounds were discovered in the EU, so drugs that have just emerged on the market. 2009 comparisons for 24. So the trend is increasing. Trends are slightly lower in the Republic of Croatia where 5 new market compounds were discovered in 2012, and in 2013. 12. In the last three years, 33. So these are relatively large numbers, and we need to worry about that because often institutions so either prosecution or prevention cannot detect the occurrence of such compounds in time and engage in its prevention. So that's where I think about the police, but also all those who work in education. Of course, we don't just limit ourselves to this famous crocodile that I say thank God he's not so present with us. They're here, for example. and phenylamines, triptamines, piperazines, for example, used in veterinary medicine, and then you can imagine what effect they have on human organism, cathinones, synthetic cannabinoids etc., etc. For example, there is a mephedron that is still popular even after being under legal control and despite numerous negative side effects. The illustrations, according to the results of the availability of illegal drugs, mean investigating the availability of illegal drugs among the users of the 570-stakeholders programme 17% said that it consumed amphetamines once in a lifetime and consumes 0.9% daily. Once in a life of methamphetamine 9.2% and 0.3% daily and 7.3% once in life and 0.2% daily. Even 7.5% of respondents consumed new drugs, so I'm talking about synthetic cannabinoids and mephedron. In 2013 which is not the subject of this report, the number increased to 14%. So although the percentages are relatively small, especially those who enjoy the mentioned drugs on a daily basis, they are still worrying because they show a trend of growth. Also, there are old drugs on the market, or I would dare say the variations on the subject of old drugs that are often popularized and, above all, repressive institutions cannot detect or reduce their availability on the market in time. In any case, the great challenge not only for the state and its institutions but also for society as a whole will be to prevent the growth of this monster but also to jump to the challenges that represent these so-called. new drugs, synthetic drugs that have an extremely destructive impact on the human organism and that are much harder to control. As such, I call, of course, for all of us to accept it, and I hope that for 2013 it will show further declines in drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69792	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69793	Just for a little while, since we haven't really mentioned cigarettes in this debate very much, you've rightly mentioned the addiction to smoking and I'm going to turn to kids again naturally, actually young, kids, right? How is it possible that a 14, 15 - year - old child smokes and smokes it all the time, smokes often? It means he's already a smoker. The question is, who sold him the cigarettes, could he have bought it somewhere? Yes, despite the ban. So the laws are really to hang on to a wedge. It means nothing to anyone or to anyone. If they didn't buy it, someone gave it to them. Did they get their parents? There's that, too. I'm coming back all the time, now I'm going to be scolded by Mr. Jurevic. I'm going back to my family all the time. Yes, there is, and you probably know some examples that parents, especially fathers, offer their children a cigarette and say better to smoke at home than to smoke outside and steal. It's also all one vicious circle. So back to the laws, we have laws that prohibit the sale of tobacco products to children. We want information on how many and how often these laws are broken and who violates them and how they are punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69794	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69795	Thank you very much. Well, Comrade Kosor, I agree with you. So, kids and smoking is an extremely big problem. And here's a colleague before me, Posavac mentioned, so anyone who worked in an educational institution can tell you that we often face this particular problem, so children and young adolescents consume not only tobacco cigarettes but also alcohol, and it's always a question of how they got to him, who sold them. Unfortunately, it's often the case that like you said, they get it at home. Now the reason why, we can get into it, whether it's a lack of parental education, whether it's a neglect of parents, or whether it's another reason often, and culturally, I would dare tell nature. For example, smoking is extremely present among the young Roma population. So I've also worked with class departments where Roma were, so that's also a problem. But the problem is alcohol. But you also have irresponsible individuals who will buy a child alcohol or cigarettes, so everything will be legal and bring it to them outside of the store or the place where it is sold. But also the problem is the gray market, so I'm talking about those popularly known smugglers, of which it's also possible to buy cigarettes illegally that don't have the RS tax stamps, and I don't think they care about who they're selling to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69796	Marin Jurevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69797	My colleague Hajdukovic mentioned how you said new drugs, so I agree with you that in fact new drugs can be called all synthetic drugs when they appeared, when LSD appeared in the 1960s, some theorists like Simon Fritz thought it wasn't an accident, they were produced in military laboratories and there are theories that at the time of the great rebellions of the 60s, there was a intentional narcoticisation to so say this "revolutional relationship" to the existing reality. It is a time when Eastern philosophy is penetrated in the West, the Beatles are recording a song called Revolutions in which they say that they need to change themselves and not society enters a Ravis Card and all that comes with it and there is a series of drugs that are artificial, so that are produced by the will of people in some laboratories that need knowledge and these people were not drug dealers, but it was about the drug industry that was bound by the great dominant systems of the world. It's a normal thing to take control of it in its own way, if that theory that smells like conspiracy theory holds water, but today you have these drastic situations to what's going on in Mexico every day that we watch on TV and the truth is that if we talk about Mexico, they're involved in it, starting in the '80s, by a famous police chief named Duraso Negro, Black Duraso, he was a general police officer and I think he's holding the thesis that often the system is involved in a drug business and that this so much power is strong that sometimes the fight against drugs is just hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69798	Reply to the replica Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69799	Thank you. So, colleague, you've touched a very interesting subject that we could discuss anyway. One phenomenal thing or I would say maybe culturally as you mentioned changes in society only 60 years ago is similar to that philosophy to change the world itself first. I'm a supporter of maybe that, though not using drugs to change myself because changing yourself is always the hardest thing to do, and if we go from ourselves, we can change the world. But I also think that drugs like this are primarily synthetic, which are easily produced, which are cheap consequences of what you said in the end, where the only goal is only profit, regardless of what the acquisition of that profit is, is to destroy people's lives, even the lives of others, or families and societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69800	My colleague Mile Horvat is not present, so he loses his right to debate on this wheel. And finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69801	Thank you very much, dear vice president of our Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard that in Croatia we have a whole series of laws, we have special units for detoxification, the office for the control of drug abuse, hospital departments, public health institutions, NGOs, etc., and the economic institute in Zagreb estimates that public expenditures for the control of drug abuse and those specified and they have not been specified, in the last four years amounted to nearly three billion kuna, three billion kuna. And we rightly wonder how effective this effort is, or what results it produces, whether we are successful in the fight against addiction, whether we are in the fight against drug abuse. Many claim that success is the very fact that the number of new users or addicts does not increase. If we do so, the implementation of the strategy or action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2012 is also a success. Because the report shows that in discussions, many colleagues and colleagues have pointed out that there is no or no increase in this share in the system of treatment for addicts. But various types of drugs, alcohol, and tobacco are still easily available to all and to our youngest citizens. She was right to speak of it earlier, and an esteemed colleague, Kosor, because despite our young people’s ban on selling a pack of cigarettes or a bottle of alcohol is literally within reach and as far as the financial aspect or cost is concerned, one ecstasy is cheaper than a pack of cigarettes or a bottle of alcohol or even a glass of an alcoholic drink. Through various social actions, the fact is that at all levels healthy lifestyles are promoted, but when we talk to our children about drug harm, it is hypocritical and counterproductive in holding a cigarette or a glass of alcoholic beverages and we often do so unfortunately. For adults, we also need additional and continuous education on the harmfulness of all forms of addiction, and the key to introducing healthier life habits for healthier and independent life generations that come to see also in introducing health education in schools and as we always appeal to the media to present projects that aim at preventing all forms of addiction. We know that drug trafficking is one of the most profitable businesses in the world, and our officers are exhausting themselves on catching consumers, and in fact, drug dealers, smugglers and drug traffickers are our main enemies. Enemies who have huge resources and have nothing to lose. In that field, on that battlefield, to express ourselves, we need to strengthen our army. Strengthen resources and concentrate on the use of new communication technologies in illicit production and drug trafficking, strengthen regional and cross-border cooperation, strengthen the fight against money laundering and disable illicit illegal laboratories and certainly improve the seizure, as it is estimated that only about 10% of the total quantities of drugs produced are seized. So, with the need to strengthen the co-ordination role of the Government Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and, in our opinion, more concentration on dealers and smugglers, and less on consummations and the CNS club accepts the proposed report because the fight against all forms of addiction, we know Sisif's job, but any effort to prevent this social problem should be supported, and if so, and we believe that at least one life has been saved, no kuna invested in that struggle is too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69802	Thank you very much. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69803	My colleague, you're right to wonder, so we have drug-fighting institutions, we've spent so much money, what are the effects of this, and how effective are we in the fight against this monster of modern times? You also apostrophe, so that the criminal repression is removed from the consummation, which we have done, we also introduce education. However, what is most important, which is to hire young people and therefore glad that we are in this guarantee, an initiative, a guarantee for young EU youth, Croatia, ahead of us, withdrawing the largest amount from the EU funds precisely for youth employment. It's our orientation, to hire young people so it's not just some message of young people and their destiny basically to work on black and spend on white.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69804	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69805	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, and colleague Ingrid actually said something that I wanted to say, when you asked yourself if we were successful? There's a lot of work to be done, and you can see it from the report. It's also a finding that it's hard to fight and there are always criminals ahead of us, when you look at only an example of the drugs that come into existence, or the means of addiction because these new drugs kill give an addict for life and there's no treatment there. That's how they work. The individual will certainly lose the battle, so I think we should get a good network and coordinate to be stronger in all of this, but in the end one proposal in view of just a moment ago, my colleague Jurjevic said something that I imagined was very good, which is that usually we talk negatively about prevention, we say, "To say drugs no". However, it may be necessary to approach this as well as affirmatively. It's aphimatively easier to accept, so we have to go to prevention with the "health" and get us up to health, not drugs. So even in the prevention itself, here's what I suggest we go to that affirmative part, throw out that negative, not drugs, I don't know what it is, but go to those healthy lifestyles and then transform into some kind of affirmative message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69806	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69807	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, colleagues of König, you talked about the legislative framework, you talked about prevention, but you may have forgotten to mention the abolition of family centres that were for many communities or for many families that had problems with addiction, places of counseling, places of help, so also places for prevention of addiction among young people. So, I think once again, we talked about this and when the abolition of family centers happened, or how it was explained at the time, the attachment of family centers, that we had denied a good opportunity or denied families, a place where children would be able to talk openly about their problems because family centers were often teachers and educators and could be discussed about what parents might have no place to ask elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69808	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69809	Dear colleagues, in your presentation, you referred to this, so that the policy is a criminal that must be conducted in this area to go after dealers, not to persecute themselves consumers who use certain substances for their personal use. I would absolutely agree with you, and I must point out that the amendments to the Penal Code that last year were precisely aimed at not achieving this in order to say the eagle hunts flies, so that the state's attorneys and police were really focusing on what was important, on the perpetrators of serious forms of this crime, and that only possession of certain substances for personal use had been moved into the criminal sphere and it was seen from the State's Attorney's report that it had had had any effect that the State's attorney and police could be more committed to precisely serious cases and to the prevention and prevention of serious cases of drug abuse because they had been released from a large part of the work with essentially benign forms. I would say that self-consummation of intoxicating drugs is basically also a victim throughout this story and I agree with them in the first paper should be prevention, in some ways perhaps even to a certain extent you would advocate a sharper approach when we talk about them still having to provide information on where they obtained certain substances, especially those that fall under their description in the weight of drugs. He would even suggest that it be considered not to give out information from where you get a certain weightier drug being also a crime of sui generis but I say it is already... at the Ministry of Justice and for higher consistent co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69810	And Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69811	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, fellow König, you've listed the institutional framework in your final address in these five minutes and in fact all those involved in drug prevention. However, you forgot to mention, and this was heard today and during the debate that perhaps the church should be more involved in this prevention of the fight against addiction, but should not be distracted from the mind, do not forget that thousands of parish offices in the Republic of Croatia are involved in this prevention because their parents most often address them. You are witnessing that those centers, or communities involved, come from these church lines. So maybe it would be good here now at the end of this report to give and highlight the special role of the church, I think of all the church communities in the Republic of Croatia in solving the problem of addiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69812	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69813	Report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2012 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was adopted unanimously with 107 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69814	We move to: - Annual report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2012 The report is submitted by the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, based on Article 19. Law on the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. You received the material by mail. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by Mr Goran Matesic, president of the board of directors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69815	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. You have before you a third report on the work of an independent regulatory body that regulates the rail market, an area of activity burdened with monopoly and therefore there are specific provisions and there is an independent regulator that should help to ensure that, in the absence of self-regulatory measures based on supply and demand, the opening of the market is ensured in principle. This report follows a series that has been established since the beginning, so it can also see trends. In a substantive sense, it has provisions on human potential, on the financial business of the agency, on the public work. We should say that one of the principles of opening the market liberalisation is transparency and then not discrimination about it and the agency's policy which almost all its activities exposed on the website and thus made available policies and trends and what its task is. This report also contains general indicators on the rail market and this future 2012 report is in some way no longer current, especially in this section concerning the legal framework. Much of the remarks on the legal framework governing the rail market have been highlighted but not all, have been corrected by the adoption of new legislation, hence the new Law on Railways, which has reflected the EU's Parliament and Council directives. So these remarks on the legal framework served the legislator as well as the basis. The second feature of this report is the process of restructuring the HH system, which is set on one principle by an independent infrastructure manager and two for the time being, the only railway operators who are monopolists and hence, when we read in the paper that the task of the Agency is to protect HZ from HZ is quite nonsense, because it is right now that the agency must protect the market or must contribute to the development of the market and enable, in addition to the existing monopolies, to the equal principles of the market and others but not as monopolies. Railway infrastructure and transport indicators show a decline, as well as the number of passengers transported. They're here to give you some reasons for that. From the very core activity of the regulatory body here can be divided into two groups, one activity by party initiative. In principle, they were complaints from the carrier. These complaints showed a lack of legal framework, which may not have been fully resolved by the new legislation, and then it was actually evident that some carriers were making a complaint after the deadline which was rather inadmissible. Through the appeal proceedings, even when the agency rejected an emergency complaint, if it was a matter of key issues, it was in doing so in an official capacity. In fact, the regulatory body decides on complaints and can also, on official duty, monitor the market and react at the time when it finds that there are some obstacles. In this respect, this procedure, either by appeal or by formal action, was in some way bound, so even when the appeals were dismissed, the procedure continued under official duty. The basic instrument of the infrastructure manager is the network report. These are the general operating conditions for which infrastructure managers announce how they will operate on the network. A considerable effort was made by the agencies in the direction of repairing the network report in order to simply be market-oriented as an act aimed at greater information and reliability and predictability of business. If I am not stealing your time, the procedure in which the methodology for calculating the fees for the use of railway services has been controlled may need to be mentioned. Some conclusions have been reached and they are quite positive and are in line with what is also European legislation, since the rail market is a European market. So our rail market is part of the single European market. It is a long-term process that will require years of work, however the current economic situation and the fact that in the '12s The infrastructure manager has not charged a single kuna for the use of infrastructure, says that everything the agency could do in this direction is falling on this fact whether the fee is real according to direct costs, whether it stimulates the arrival of new carriers, whether it stimulates the transition of transport from road to rail, which is more economically, falls into the water in this situation. It should also be stated that the Agency is one of the founders and a rather noticeable member of the Group of the Independent Regulatory Authorities of the European Union, as well as a member of the Regulatory Authorities Working Group of the European Commission and that it has had rather significant bilateral cooperation with other regulatory bodies, which is also a legal obligation. So I would repeat that this report is given in light of three essential facts. One is the restructuring of the integrated rail system, the other are the conditions for the fall of all transport and business in the railway sector in terms of the economic crisis, and the third is a very important fact for us that the compensation for the use of railway infrastructure in that year is not charged at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69816	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69817	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. The Honorable President of the Board of Directors and Associates is yours. Well, I agree with this opening statement of yours that it's a little declassified to talk about the 2012 report since we're already in 2014. If this were the right debate then it would happen, it would happen before the state budget for this year. Then it would have some effect and it would have some meaning and it would have been known, in some ways we could say that these would be guidelines for that part too, but well now, what it is, we're already kind of used to doing this kind of work. What this report says, the first thing that came into my eyes was that it was significantly reduced in relation to the previous report and I welcome it since that previous report contained a lot of data that were frankly and irrelevant and were just a copy-pass from some other documents. What's definitely disturbing is the fact that we can read here, this agency has received 7 cases, 7 appeals are initiated by the operator, or the participant. Of these 7, the agency itself was declared incompetent, and 2 were not able to resolve in that year, which is not a direct objection to the agency since these two were also admitted at that time when it was not actually possible to resolve. But the fact that one agency receives 7 items in a year, of those 7 cases for 5, is declared incompetent, and 2 are not solved, is, in my opinion, enough evidence that we have a lot of these agencies, and we have them and it is questionable whether we really need those agencies. In a conversation with the minister, let's say I learned the information that two agencies are still planning, among other things this agency is with one more time. I think it's a good idea, just what kind of realization it's going to be, which is really what it's really about to achieve. On the board I asked a question about what the gentleman here said legal indetermination, so we have so little to say to quote shortcomings within the existing legal framework, so the concept of the railway services market is not defined, so many important institutes are not sufficiently normised, so the general rules on the protection of competition are insufficient, so there are significant legal gaps in domestic legislation, so the opportunity for 2014 to have an act that would be better suited to market conditions, so this can result in various problems, this is an overall lack of this legal certainty. And now I'm asking this same agency. Is there any idea of your proposal, and how much I understand one of the main obligations of the agency, among other things, to participate in legal, legal frameworks, or in defining those problems they face during their work and to suggest which would be a better quality solution than the existing ones. But there is no such thing. I therefore believe that with full right I can say that you have a good part of the responsibility for this situation in the rail market. I'm not saying that you're the main culprit, that you're a responsible person, but that your reaction was missing, which, in your position, had to be expected. You mentioned here non-discrimination, that it's the Agency's task to monitor the market as we have, in fact, that we have only two operators per one in each mode of traffic. It's kind of questionable how much you can focus on it, but I'm going to ask you a specific question. Whether the occurrence of any other operator, either in any form or in any way whether the passenger or freight transport, whether or not our carrier who buys the fuel price must pay a contribution to the railway infrastructure, must pay a contribution to the roads, i.e. in the form of excise duty. A foreign railway operator has no need at all, for such a thing can tank outside our space. Did you react to that in a law that was not long ago about the distribution of those funds? Have you responded before that? Our operators certainly can't be competitive. It's a very important item. On the other hand, the prison and the railroad. I wish I'd missed it, but I didn't come across your reaction anywhere the way you reacted, the way you pointed out the problem that it was. It's a systematic destruction of national operators both by our country and by another system within it, although you mentioned earlier that, I don't know what term you used, but that it's about stupidity that it's pointless to talk about protecting HZ from HZ. Well, I'm telling you, we really need to talk about it. Last year, I apologize to you, in 2012 in January 4 ships were in the port of Bakar, the fifth ship was returned from Otrant and rerouted to Constanto. All the ships that were loaded onto the wagons were, all that load was standing by because HZ Infrastructure was closing the tracks for 72 hours and then missing out on speed what to do, we were paying rent for foreign wagons, we were paying for the boat's deck. There's nothing we didn't pay for, not us, but HZ Cargo. Whether it's discrimination against our national operator, whether it's participation in, in some way, destroying that operator of ours. You mentioned here the fall of one of the great problems of the fall in freight and passenger traffic. Well, the fall in freight and passenger traffic occurred primarily for that reason. All transport users were looking for an alternative, because HZ any Cargo, any Traveler was simply unable to provide them with a service for which he signed the contract, i.e. to assume the obligation. HZ infrastructure has simply blocked, and both are our national property. Isn't that knowingly destroying? We can close our eyes in front of that, but that's the fact that it is. Someone can say it, but look, we need to rebuild the infrastructure. Yes, we can. We can agree to that and I absolutely agree with that. But if you close all the railways around Zagreb and remain only the railway towards Slovenia, according to Dobova, whether it is possible to do any transport, whether anything can be done, transported, transited and transited and one of the more important things is simply not possible. That is why I stress that you are responsible for the state in which both our operators are unfortunately. You mentioned the importance of the Network Report. Since I have been actively involved in this myself, I know and I confirm that your statement that the Network Report is really one of the important things, but what if HZ infrastructure or the infrastructure manager violates his own network report, that is, when he closes certain railways past the plan? Did you react? I'm not sure. As mentioned, you also mentioned fees for the use of the route and as a disputed part, among other things, last year is not charged, for 2012, I apologize, I will correct it, but not in full amount it is. Now the question will be asked, at least according to my information, what with the VAT which is not paid, many more questions will be asked, but I will remind you that here from this pay phone I have shown the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which has freed national operators for domestic transport. So, it's not unusual, it's a normal way for the state to help its own property, its own companies. He's looking for a way to save us. We're fighting it with all our powers, I don't know why, and I'm saying it's certainly not without the devil. That there's something about it. Is it realistic to ask institutions that should do their job I think it's really pointless because they've had a chance so far so it's proved that it's mostly all about political functioning. You mentioned an organisational restructuring within the HH which is in line with the EU Directive. Well, I'll tell who knows which time I'm talking from this pay phone that it's just a lie. The EU directive has not prescribed any organisational separation, financial separation, yes, organisationally. And that's what we've been under, and we've passed the HH-separation Act on the basis of such a prank. Why don't we have an Austrian model that's more appropriate to us because we're a small country, a small railroad? No, he was interested, I talked about that interest many times from here, but apparently there's no hearing. I'm going to look back on something that doesn't say in the report, which applies to this agency. I still think we don't need an agency like this. I therefore welcome the initiative, if true, by the minister to bring the two agencies together. But, let's say, on your pages, I looked up some data and, among other things, for the year 2012, I flew 69500 kuna. Other, accommodation, transport is 50,000 kuna, language course 56 000 kuna, rent space here in Jurisic near 206,000 kuna. There's more and more, there's even art items and things like that. But let's say the rent of space in 2013, that same space, as far as I know you didn't move in any part, is 196 600 kuna. Well, quite a difference, I don't know what based on what, probably the most model has shown great understanding for the problems in which this country and the state budget are based on this item saved some 15 thousand kuna. We have space, and HH has space, and there's no state space where they're not. Are we really so rich that we have to single out 206,000 kunas even for renting space? Not to say that everything goes well with all these accompanying costs that are the direct cost of the state budget. What effect did this agency receive for the quality of our operators, for the quality of rail services? I'd like one single example so let's make it the tiniest, most bizarre, but I'd like to see it. You mentioned yours, not yours personally, but your agency's cooperation with other agencies in Europe. It's commendable, but it seems to me it was a tourist trip at the expense of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69818	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69819	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Novak, I fully accept your debate and I think it fits in with a vision presented by the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Hajdash-Doncic in 2012. He says that in his mandate Croatian trains will be transported, that we will have a strong air carrier, that we will have modern ships and quality roads. It's his vision, and then in one daily list it came out the same day I'm going to share 10,000 layoffs in my portfolio, we remember that big cover. And it kind of corresponds to this report. Because you yourself have brought this agency into question whether it should be in this form of this state? And then you listed seven complaints. Out of all seven, all of them are rejected, and that's two very important reasons, for some we're incompetent, and some of us are out of time. That's a fundamental question. Because when we read more and that sentence that all the contracts were supposed to be signed, but they weren't, but things were happening on HH as if they were, we're in some kind of theater of absurdity. Really, what the agency does then is if everything in that space is going to happen in accordance with some kind of inert or some kind of prime minister thing and you're not doing anything about it, something's going to happen. It is a fundamental question and a question of what we are doing today, whether this agency, with all its powers with HZ, can be a lever of Croatia's development or, together with the whole system, lead us in that it becomes a burden that drags us into the abyss, the entire Croatian economy knowing what is happening today at the port of Ploče but I will talk more about it in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69820	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69821	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Boric, you started with the minister's statements. I don't know if it's necessary to comment on them since we have his statements that without a bite, HZ CARGO will send them into bankruptcy, so we have a fact that we've read in the media that the same time, it shrinks to lunch 10 thousand kunas probably the same without remorse. So we have the latest statement that also belongs to that category whether or not the minister says so let them jump off the bridge those who have received high wages before, so where's his responsibility for that resort. And you asked, you opened another question perhaps even unconsciously contracts and the realisation of those contracts, or the consequences of those contracts. So here's what I'm asking is also the question of whether it's accurate information that HH signed for a private company contract on the lease of two locomotives with the possibility of extending the contract to eight locomotives and that it was a prerequisite for a license to be granted by that privateer in the area of the Republic of Croatia or on the network of HH. If that information is correct I believe that it is, or by my sources it is, I would like to know what your opinion of it as an agency that should be interested in it, I would like to hear the minister as a congregation whether he knows about this information and can't be that he doesn't know if the information is true, but I would also like someone to tell me, whether it's really conscious of destroying our operators or maybe something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69822	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69823	Thank you very much. My colleague Novak, I know you and I know a lot about the railroad, and I think we're getting along almost completely. When you talked about the budget plan, so the agency then you pointed out many items about, look at the lease. But look at that same budget of the intellectual and other services agency of 2 million and 480 thousand total achievement of the agency in 2012 is 144 thousand or 6%. And when we look at ha, let's say what services they are, then it says this, to the art, or the agency to short-list the issues that were asked her, and that's four questions, one is the office of the Prime Minister, one is the request by Mr. Nikola North Sheni, journalist of the Morning List, the third is Mr. Tom Bačić's request on tow vehicles, information, whether and the fourth is the request again from the Prime Minister's office. These are four questions that the agency has been very determined to resolve. About the other complaints of HZ CARGO and HZ passenger services there are seven in total throughout 2012 the Agency's replies are that they are not competent, that it is not a timely complaint, etc., so I am not clear from the intellectual services that it cost so much and when you talk about alone and why so much money was spent on rail transport, then it is quite clear that from Table 9 that in 2010, rail transport was in thousands, so in millions of tonnes, 69, almost 70 million tonnes. 2012 27 million tons. It's a reduction of more than 50%. 50% in two years is less transport by more than 50%. At the same time, road, plane, and others do not experience such a debacle of other carriers, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69824	Thank you. The answer to the line of Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69825	Thank you very much. As far as these financial items are concerned, which you have stated would not further spread by it I am still standing at the point where the first agency certainly has space, there may be some of the existing spaces owned or owned by the HZ, hs infrastructure now but it is very easy to solve because we have seen how this is solved or this country still has space where it could accommodate this agency. I'm not sure that the centre of the city of Zagreb is the only place that fits and Jurisic's street which is really narrow center can't even be. I would mention you've given me the opportunity to know about the famous Romanian case that was here with us, how it went infamously, but I'm interested in whether the agency followed that part too, whether the exact information that can be obtained that the Romanian firm has received on all the contracts. If it is a he seems to have given it is not a discriminatory form towards our operator. Now, honestly, the Grampet group gave up, but now I'm asking the question, but what they needed. I didn't even say that they really needed it, if it's the right information and we read it in all the media, no one has denied it, it's likely that they have such a rolling stock as they have, the only thing they need is quality information about what kind of contracts a domestic carrier has. They don't need anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69826	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69827	Dear counterpart Novak, it should be repeated, perhaps 20 times that the agency received 7 cases, for 5 it was not competent, declared incompetent, 2 failed to resolve, and after that information, the question arises whether the agencies are independent regulators, whether the agencies are controllers or are para-government bodies, in fact an extended government arm to conceal what the government is doing badly? The agency reminds me of another agency that also deals with the railways, which is for the safety of transport, which has declared unsuitable for the transport of trains along the track. Well, then I don't understand what those agencies are for. 150 of us have these paravalda bodies, and to this day we haven't received an answer from the government of the Republic of Croatia what to do with these agencies with hundreds or thousands, probably thousands of employees of people who receive high wages without doing their job?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69828	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69829	Thank you. Well, look, I guess I'm in the gentleman's seat right now, I'd say look, but the operators didn't complain, I have nothing to answer to, and on the other hand what they were complaining about was really missed. That would probably be my answer to sit down. However, the fact is that I have contacts with these operators, or people who work there, and the fact is that I've worked in that system for 30 years and I can take that freedom to do something and I know about it, not that I know everything, but that I know something. The fact is also that these operators have an attitude to complain to the agency, it's a waste of time. Now it's also a fact that some complaints and complaints have been written in good time, so if I remember correctly, there's some logo for some law firm upstairs. So I mentioned that these letters that were stacked in HZ, which were written by people inside HZ, were only given the logo of the lawyer's house, and it was very, very well charged, normally by that law firm, not the agency, but the operators. Why aren't the operators complaining? Because they've come to realize that it's just not worth complaining about, it's not worth complaining about because everything's been rejected or even the more they've been brought into a situation that, don't be ridiculous and complain when you know that whatever you write and no matter how right you are, we're going to say no. We protect, the only thing we protect, our only task here is to protect our infrastructure manager, and we do it in a very good way. But what about the report on the network, which is the basic document, when it is violated by the infrastructure manager? What's going on? Nothing at all. How can you define that only, and you know it well, only the first train is carrying damage. What about 20 trains and 40 cars?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69830	Thank you. Thank you very much. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69831	Well, colleague Novak, you and I could talk about the railroad for hours. It's not a minute to talk about them. But I fully agree that this agency, when you're reading this report, is completely unnecessary. 10 employees, 2 million and 755 according to plan, 2 million 483 thousand spent funds, that's one unit of local self-government with about 20 employees, spending so much annually on resolved issues. But what I got up to say and what I wanted to say, and you and I were on the board when the only time Minister Doncic was on that board, he made it clear and loud that the final target was 2200 employees in the entire railway area. Now we ask ourselves why, since 2001, the railroad has been breaking systematically, and these indicators in the report show a constant decline in freight transport and a constant fall from year to year in passenger transport. The situation with the rolling stock is well known. You also mentioned ships from the Bakar port that had to be returned because the railroad couldn't take that burden at that time to transport it to its final destination. The problems are huge and this is not leading to anything like this, and we are still talking after the change in the system of electrode from Rijeka, completenoga, to Zagreb by a new flat-rate track designed in the same strip with small adjustments, although the final variant is some kind of plain line of Vinodol Valley. All this time, with all the work being done on the railroad with the waste of several daughters' companies, the railroad has been destroyed and brought into such a situation now that simply no extension of this kind... will be able to tell the railways to come into this situation to be against... and to cut costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69832	Thank you. Thank you very much. Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69833	Thank you. Well, my colleague, you mentioned this reduction in transportation. I would like to remind the EU guidelines that all Member States have instructed that transport should be rerouted as much as possible from road to rail. However, we obviously do a little bit differently from those guidelines and all of what you said about HH's waste, I totally agree. I warned from here when we went with the amendment of the Law on the division of Croatian railways that before that, the former government, not to go, it is only them or only them, systematically destroying even from, we can say maybe even since the 1980s the railway system in Croatia. But then we warned it was bad. Let's make the railway the way the organisational form is suitable for Croatian railways, i.e. the need of the Croatian state. That's when we said that there should be one carrier and that there could be two suits in that carrier that one deals with Cargo, one transport of passengers, that tow trains should be unique. What did we get with the cost hike? Does anyone bear responsibility for this only from the basis of increasing the costs of pulling trains where they have grown one and the other? Maintenance for each other. Now it's standing here, even the minister said we'll privatize all of it, which is not a basic activity. We can privatize everything, we can sell everything out, but the fact is, I'm interested in what motive? What initiatives do those who make these decisions lead? I say there is no good intentions in this, no good intentions and unfortunately there are no state institutions that should check for what and why this is done. Because we saw for ourselves the other day and the state auditor and the state prosecutor, but unfortunately, the state auditor didn't do anything about the division of HH.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69834	I am setting a break until 15.00 hours, and then the first one will be the club of representatives of HDZ and colleagues Josip Boric. It's 1:00.38.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69835	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] It is up to HDZ club and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69836	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honored director with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. So here's the HDZ Club saying something about this report by the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2012. This is an ideal opportunity to have this report, regardless of what the 2012 issue is, and some questions, so let's also talk about problems that plague not only the agency but also the market that they monitor, which is the rail market. The first and basic question that is being imposed is certainly today and asked whether we need this agency in this form or whether it should be attached to someone else as proposed to HACOM or should be completely abolished because listening to the vision of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, which I already said today, and he said in 2012, that he wants modern trains, that he wants nice and quality roads, that he wants a successful air carrier and that he wants modern and good ships. Indeed, the question is, what is this relationship and what has been achieved in the past two years of the mandate, given what the Agency has written in its 2012 report. It is known that the Agency is a regulator on the rail market and is tasked to ensure that market conditions are not non-discriminatory and not biased with respect to market laws. The Agency shall do so by providing legal protection through the appeal procedure and through continuous monitoring and monitoring of the situation and occurrences which will ensure the transparency and equality of all participants in the rail market. What are the human potentials? He employs 10 employees, the report's director says needs to fill the seat of members of the board of directors to permanent employees as well as hire an accounting manager. Another wish is further harmonisation of national regulations on regulation of the rail market, which should lead to an increase in the competence of the regulatory authority, and thus to the scope of the operations. Now that this is in line with what is happening because it is evident that the agency has become an independent beneficiary of state budget funds, which is some assumption of independence and independence, but when we see what is done, the question is whether the agency is independent in its work. Because the procedure for the consolidation of the Governing Council has not been completed, and it was spent in 2012 after saving 2 million 481 thousand 347 kuna as it stands here in the report. In view of the fact that only two carriers exist in the Republic of Croatia, one of which is a historical monopolist for passenger transport, and another historical monopoly for freight transport, this regulatory body did not have a number of complaints which could be changed by the entry of new carriers into the market of the Republic of Croatia. In 2012, we heard the agency received 7 complaints of which 5 were resolved in 2012, and two were transferred to resolution in 2013. And they all complained about who? Everyone inside HH. And, of course, it is justified that this agency was actually founded to protect HH from HH itself because 4 complaints went from HH Carg against HH Infrastructure, and three went from HH Travel Transport also against HH Infrastructure. And we come to being the problem itself. How were those complaints solved? The report says that most of the complaints were not metrically resolved but had to be rejected for procedural reasons. The complainants made complaints about whose resolution the agency was not in charge. The accession, damages compensation contract or no procedural assumption has been reached for the handling of the complaint. That's where we think of the timing. So we have an agency that we're complaining about, but when the appeal comes, the agency determines that it's not in charge or that it's out of service for a while. And then the report said its role as a regulatory body was carried out in a way that, in communication with the infrastructure manager, expressed its legal views on the interpretation of the rules on the rail market. This regulatory body has proposed measures to eliminate potential discrimination. That was settled in conversations, I hope it's not on the phone. But the question is, what are the responsibilities of such agencies? And then what is most tragic is what creates the problem, despite everything mentioned in 2012 the infrastructure access contracts until early 2013 were not accepted and signed by the carrier although it is considered to have been concluded and implemented. So we don't have contracts but we acted like contracts were in force and they had their own legal and any other effect. As a reason for refusing to sign the contract, the carriers state that prices are unacceptable and too high, and the agency, within its jurisdiction, considers that the signing of the contract has legal implications and in that case they intervened with regard to the functioning of the market and the application of the rules on traffic safety in order to encourage the resolution of this dispute, however without success. It's about the agency's work. If that is enough for us today to determine that this agency needs us to continue, then such a decision should be accepted in some way by accepting the report. If we consider this bad, then the executive authority must propose to solve this kind of, let's say, legal vacuum in which the agency exists, and there's no jurisdiction, spending taxpayers' money, and it doesn't solve what it's set for. Because what is our current state of the Croatian Railways and why the Government lost two years without any movement in the Croatian Railways. Today we have heard a lot about the organisational structure, but I will point out here that we are in the HDZ Club, but I also remember the Labourists warning of all the shortcomings of the then proposed new model of organisational structure where the status changes occurred in a way that HZ-Wolch trains joined HZ-Pustic Transport and HZ-Carg, and HZ-Holding HZ-Infrastructure, and at that time in November 2012, we were aware of what would happen at the end of 2013. Unfortunately, this is what we are witnessing today. We heard about the traffic situation today. The number of passengers transported is reduced by 44% compared to 2011. The quantity of goods transported is lower by 7% compared to the previous year. HZ-Infrastructure operates with 2722 km of normal track track, of which international traffic 1460, regional 600, local traffic 661 km. There are 2468 or 90% of the total length of the mono-colossal stripes, and we have only 254 km or 9.3% of the bi-colossal stripes. In 2012, there were 326 thousand 676 trains, and in 2011 326 thousand 821. The number of related passengers, I said, 44% lower than in 2011, the number of passenger kilometres by 35% compared to 2011, the quantity of goods 7%, the number of net tonne-kms by 5% compared to 2011. Delays are measured in minutes. In 2012, train delays of 106 minutes were recorded in freight transport, while passenger transport recorded a delay of only 3 minutes, although this is also questionable. How much money did they get from the state budget? In 2012 In order to maintain rail infrastructure and traffic regulation, the Republic of Croatia singled out 855 million kuna, which is 222 million kuna less than in 2011 when there were a billion and 77 million kuna for the infrastructure. It certainly includes the funds for investments that amounted to 333 million kuna in 2012. Then a third question arises after what we heard about the agency, which we heard about the condition of the HH itself. Could HH be a lever of development or would such a policy become a hindrance to the economic development of Croatia? Why do I say that? Because in his performance interview, the minister said I'd fire 10,000 people in my vault. These days we witness the first major resignations of 800 people in HZ-Carg, another 1100 are announced by the end of the year. There's no capacity to carry a load. The port of Ploce is the largest freight port, acting as another state, BiH. We're witnessing today that this port that transfers about 2 million tons of cargo annually, that's a quarter of the total HZ-Carga job, is being blocked. We hear cries from the director of the port administration himself, ships are... 200 000 tons, not 2000, not 200 tons, 200 000 tons of coal waiting for transport to Zenica. Thousands of tons of clay await transport to Mostar, not to mention all other burdens. What did that port fall on? She's asleep. HZ-Cargo as part of that space at one correct locomotive age 30 and two in very poor condition. After the war ended, there were a dozen locomotives, five electric and five diesels that were transferred to the rest of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and today everything that I have listed there depends on a single correction, and we see the amount of cargo that stands, and we see the possibilities that this port can provide in economic development, and what revenue there HZ-Cargo can achieve. There, at the 12th month last year, you abolished and traffic to Sarajevo, from Ploč to Sarajevo. It's not a long track, but it was important anyway. Is it possible that BiH's economy depends on a locomotive that HZ-Cargo is jealous of and what we have today is happening to us, that also there are 140 employees in the company who are threatening to quit, i.e. that they were announced that out of those 140, 50 of them would go home in this first wave of layoffs. Well, it's really something that can contribute to the development of not only these republics, but I'm also saying those that depend on the port of Ploche. The question arises who to build infrastructure and spend their own money and money on European funds when it is the biggest project, which is Rijeka-Zagreb-Botovo came to a dead end. From what has been announced, something else is drawn, and a third is performed. Will the technical characteristics of what the current government has now taken on some partial resolutions and resolution of critical points from Zagreb to Rijeka satisfy the conditions that the railways should have in order to obtain EU funds. What are the cuts, what are the widths, what are the bridges and everything else about it, so we can safely say that we're going to get the means for what we're doing. Why did it give up the finally drawn route of the new railway line and move towards some kind of improvisation with the recovery itself and where, I say, it will bring the entire HZ system to the Republic of Croatia at all. I can't say in all this that I see the great guilt of the director of the agency himself, because he's here to respect what the law says. He wrote it the way he thinks it should look. But here is the responsibility and basic question where and what blind street the minister has brought the entire railway system to in the Republic of Croatia. Because if the vision is what he said, what I read at the beginning of modern trains we still don't have, the railroad is no good. If it's a high-quality highway, we're not gonna give what we've done to a lot of trouble, and I'm talking about highways, some kind of concession. If it's a powerful air carrier that's already tried to privatize and failed, then we have to say that part of the vision isn't accomplished. And in the end, there were other modern ships. We had a program that in eight years gave 12 new ships, two catamarans. Now I hear we've ordered four new ferrys. Perhaps some of that vision is realized in at least one segment. But given the state of HZ and everything that's written here in this Agency Report, unfortunately we can't support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69837	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague, Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69838	Thank you very much. So, fellow Boric, you mentioned the conclusion of a contract, or operators with the Infrastructure Manager. Which is why it's come to try a little bit from the point of view of someone who hasn't worked for a long time in that part. The fact is that the contract, the contracts were made and the procedure itself was taken or left by the system. If you don't have a job, it's just impossible and the state will force you. Therefore, you must take what you have. And the same contracts provide that if Infrastructure managers close traffic on a specific track, if their closure occurs, they bear the costs of only the first train, only the first train. So, all the other 30, 40, 50 trains that goes to the operator's cargo. That's why there was a difficulty, or operators were trying to convince someone that it was something that was normal that it was really normal. You mentioned a reduction in the number of passengers, passengers and cargo. I'll remind you that this government is very boastful of huge investment in infrastructure. But we now have a situation to say precisely because of this investment in infrastructure, there's this escape and passengers and cargo going on, but we have a situation on the track from which I'm traveling to Sisak, that it's being remounted to 100, 120 km/h, and a few months after that, they're starting a slow ride. A mile and something we're driving at 20. The agency that would have anything to say about that, because it also affects the operator's situation I don't know you ever called about it. And you mentioned the delays that were calculated in minutes. Thank you. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Just for reasons of objectivity, I'll tell you that the canceled trains are not shown here, which is why such amounts are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69839	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69840	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Novak, I said what it actually says in this report itself, which is that operators have refused to sign contracts and that their prices are unacceptable and too high. But that didn't stop them from using the infrastructure. And that's why it puts the real point of this agency's existence at risk. If you as an independent regulatory body have certain rights and obligations to warn, to do, to direct why this is happening that no matter how non-existent contracts are all doing what they want and then what's happening here today is as something we should look at. And I'm assessing from the director's side that it's correct that he wrote it and I don't see his great responsibility. And so I keep saying, the minister's responsibility because whatever we're talking about, the Transport Development Strategy of this Croatia has come down to the fact that we all have to live in big cities. Rural areas are particularly cut off on land by rail, and then we do not have to wonder why we have 44% less passengers in 2012 compared to 2011. The simple number of frequencies has decreased, and the transport itself has obviously accumulated something. Such a strategy as well as a strategy to abolish the laws set out for assisted areas, PPDS, mountain-mounted areas. We're seeing what that means these days. Suddenly, a story in the Regional Development Act becomes different because we have an elemental accident that has been said to stop all the railway traffic from Zagreb to Luci Rijeka for several days. And as long as it doesn't, in politics, the executive government doesn't determine what she thinks and who she is who she needs to be, and that's certainly not the agency we won't know where we're going in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69841	New replica and respected Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69842	Dear counterpart Boris, you have asked some questions in your presentation whether we need an agency, and then in the last part of the speech, after I raised the replica, you have explained the work of the current minister of traffic and connections. But you didn't ask whether or not we needed a minister like that. You mentioned the road situation, you mentioned the train transport situation, you mentioned the boat situation. I don't know how you dropped Zagreb Airport and everything that happens with Zagreb Airport is more than 1,000 workers simply cheated by the Minister and by the Government because they were promised rights as well as other workers in other Croatian companies who had the right to buy up to 9% of the shares of the new company. The previous government has reached a conclusion that this government has not even annulled but simply ignored it and that conclusion has disappeared. Of course there'll be a series of lawsuits, it'll probably be paid by some other government. But when you mentioned some other problems related to the same ministry, you could also say what kind of reactions caused the new Law on Maritime Good and Public Discussion and in Rijeka and in other places, and in fact the real question is this right place to ask the real question whether we need such a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69843	Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69844	Thank you very much. I told my colleague Mesic at the beginning of my presentation to the Minister's vision. He said it himself, I didn't force him, no one forced him. These are modern trains, a strong air carrier, modern ships and quality roads. It's a programme of work by one minister for a period of 3.5 years because unfortunately one of the others had to leave. But after that, he said I'd share 10,000 layoffs in my vault. And now how it corresponds with its vision we see these days, and we see in general with regard to all kinds of traffic in the Republic of Croatia. Because when two years go by, there's just no excuse anymore. For an illustration alone, we've been looking for the thematic session for two years, and in two years, we've managed to see the minister once at half a session because after two hours he left because he was in a hurry, he said. And we can't have the right insight or the right picture of everything that's going on in those vaults. Because looking at the situation in the Croatian Post Office, Jadrolinija, HZ, Croatian highways are all just not ideal and everything is just not what the minister drew as his vision. From that vision, only this second part is realized, and it refers to what he said at the outset, I'm going to share 10,000 layoffs in my portfolio. It certainly cannot save any of these companies and it will be funny indeed at some point to watch what will be saved by HZ if all these plans are realized which will then in a total number of employees have less than Jadrolini on their 50 ships. So if it can maintain transport policy in the rail system in this country, then the question is, what kind of system are we building?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69845	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69846	Dear counterpart Boris, you asked yourself at the very beginning of your presentation on whether we needed this agency? We've discussed agencies here several times, and we've touched dozens of times the agency's work. I remember when we discussed whether we needed an Investment and Competitiveness Agency. At that time, the government's argument was that the agency would contribute to Croatia's investments, find investors and that without that agency there was no investment in Croatia. As you have noticed, investment is so much so that we have hired all the workers unemployed, that all the baggers, all the construction machines are employed, the money is on all sides, and remember which pump is then and today's director and agency Damir Novinic came from HRT where he should have gone from. And so this agency is one of the 150 agencies, absolutely certain that it's too high and because it doesn't do its job and it doesn't really make sense to actually work for it, and instead of the government rationalizing the business of those agencies, to reduce them from 150 to 50, to leave it necessary or less or I don't know maybe we're acting like drunk millionaires anymore, we simply pay people who don't do their job and thus irritate citizens who barely make ends meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69847	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69848	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, no matter what, I think we need an agency like this because it was created for a reason. The problem is that the minister obviously didn't realize anything from his vision and it happens to us that our HZ is collapsing, and then it turns out that this agency is tracking and regulating what's collapsing but not by the agency's fault. Because their instruments are also problematic in all of this. At least the director himself wrote it honestly. There were amendments to the Law on Railways, so something slightly improved. We'll see in the 2013 report what they've now done. Because if they write to us again that they've received 10 complaints and they're not suitable for either one or they've come at the wrong time, then it's really coming to an end and it needs to be said what's going on. Because we hear that this agency needs to join the HAC now. What do Croatian railways and telecommunications and mail markets have to do with anything? I don't think so. How does that even work? What's that principal gonna do? Are we going to have two principals? What happens to those who are employed here? Will you continue to do what has been done so far? 'Cause if everything's gonna work out the same way then let's keep it the way it is. Because the problem is what we keep saying is that after 2 years and more of our own system hasn't been set up yet. Now again through the new law, we get another agency, the Maritime Welfare Agency. We recently received the Agency for Unsolved Objects in Legalization of Unlawful Construction. Now we see that these agencies have started taking jobs in the county, in cities to survive at all, to put all these people who are coming there and everyone says they have nothing to do with any politics. That must be said by the executive authority, but clearly everyone understands, and not so little we'll be here, we'll be there for a while. We're watching on TV that this very agency is being very exposed as something this country doesn't need. But then let everyone say it, let them say whether or not it exists out there and who will be the operator on these broken tracks and on this rail system in the Republic of Croatia if they are not Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69849	New replica and respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69850	Well, fellow Boric, we've all been through discussions, replicas, in a way, picking up on this report and the agency itself, but I think the agency has just written in its text what is the problem and where is the minister leading us. Namely, if you look at this point 326 in the competence of the Agency to monitor the quality of the supply of rail services, the railway carrier and you copied, you quoted the statistics. But they point out precisely this report that the law on them, therefore on the agency, are not regulated issues and ways to monitor the quality of supply of rail services, the railway carrier. Although no article of the law is prescribed what they should do, they did so. They warned of this in their 2011 report, which was adopted in October 2012, and no one acted on it. They continued to collect data as an agency, however, have no jurisdiction to implement measures in relation to the data collected, so the surveillance function is questionable and therefore exactly the debate of counterpart Novak and your debate and all this I am saying is the question of what does this agency serve at all. The law did not regulate the way he would exercise control and must exercise control. And as for your question and your finding that the minister was with us on the board for only 15 minutes, he skipped us a little bit, used a few foreign words and disappeared and it was one time that he was even on his board. It will probably be simpler for you, since you are from Rab, there is a minister of his, Mr. Antesic, he is very professional there and you will be able to examine it more easily with him. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69851	Answer? There's no answer. The new replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69852	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boric, you were talking about the Rijeka-Zagreb railroad. Namely, there's a Bosnian saying when it says "bana tower and a better day." That's how I remember when Austro-Hungarian was building railroads with technical capabilities and achievements in the 19th century. Today, when we look at these statistics and this material writes the length of built railways in Croatia zero, not zero kilometers, zero meters. So there is not a single built new open track in the Republic of Croatia. That's one thing. It's not the agency gentleman's fault, but this time we can't see the totality of the situation on the Croatian railway, so this is an opportunity for both of us to talk about it. Because it's really working, it's connected. And what's interesting is that here we were two weeks ago talking about when it was just negotiated in connection with the purchase of HZ CARGO with a man of suspicious economic credibility and that no one in this country noticed or knew about it and there were other offers and we know that there were them. They also know in HZ CARGO that there were and persistently we were seven days before the closure of Gruio we are told to continue negotiations with Mr Gruia Stoica and then two days before the closure in Romania we are told to interrupt our relations with Georgia. Very interesting setting about this and also about HZ CARGO.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69853	Reply Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69854	President, well, my colleague Grubisic is just the point of everything we need to talk about today, regardless of what the Agency's report and its work is, but the state of HZ is disastrous, and there is a need to make excellent moves because three ports, Rijeka, Sibenik and Ploče are ports in the function of development of the Republic of Croatia, the port of Ploče in the development function and other state of BIH. It's three ports that directly bring profits or carry away their bad work to whoever's connected to them and when you have this information that we have, meaning about the state of the port of Ploche is a great burden, standing, and let anyone translate it. When we have information that we have for the sake of snow and ice six, seven days the mountain section of the river Zagreb railway is being closed, the question really arises whether we are ready for what we are always talking about, effective use of EU funds because knowing what is happening in the reconstruction of this section of the railway line from Rijeka in the part of Gorski Kotar is a question of whether what is going to be done there will be able to pay by EU funds because our information says that it is done in one way that it will not be possible to achieve it, given what profiles it is doing, whether it will be able to transport at the specified speeds, given the state of a certain part of the infrastructure, and when all of this is combined in one question, whether we are going in the opposite direction of what we expect and this is developing the port infrastructure and the Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69855	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Damir Rilje will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69856	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President with associate, colleague and colleague. It is true that this annual report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2012 in which we are now discussing here in the Croatian Parliament in lateness. So it's a little difficult to talk about the same with this long distance of time. However, in short, I would refer to the SDP report in front of the club. As mentioned in the report, it shall contain a set of relevant data relating to the situation on the railway market, with a view to the performance and organisation and business of the Agency. The important task of the railway market regulator is to monitor and monitor the situation and the occurrence of analysis and to influence such conditions to ensure the transparency and equality of participants in rail transport. The rail market on which the Agency acts as a regulator is the market and which includes the relationship between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking, and related to the access to rail infrastructure and the use of all rail services, and does not include the relationship between the railway undertaking and the transport user related to the transport of goods and passengers. The procedures of railway service operators shall be regulated by the Agency in a way that ensures transparent and continuous operation of rail transport. What is seen from the report is that the number of complaints is higher than the previous year, which can be interpreted as an increase in the confidence of rail service users in the function of market regulation, and more importantly as a guideline for the development of legal practice in interpreting regulations in view of many shortcomings in the legal framework. The Republic of Croatia did not implement all the European legislation, which included 4 packages until the end of the year, but most of these normative acts were subsequently implemented by law last year. It is important to note that the rail system is the second largest in the Republic of Croatia, also for citizens, but especially for the economy. Whether its organisation system is the best in terms of current economic development remains a major issue. And it's a little bit perhaps in college with a discussion about the agency, and it's actually not. In fact, the system would have to offer an optimal service at a favourable price with profitable business, while respecting EU regulation on the restructuring and liberalisation of rail transport, as well as national legislation. The task of the Agency should also be addressed in this direction, since the main tasks of the Agency are not only the handling of complaints from railway undertakings on decisions of the infrastructure manager to decide on access to the railway network, whether through the preparation of a report on the network of timetables or the fixing of a fee for the use of railway services, but rather the supervision of the negotiations of the infrastructure manager and the carrier at the level of the fee, the quality of the service provided by railway undertakings, the granting of prior consent to the appointment and resolution of the members of the infrastructure manager's management body, but, of course, the analysis and monitoring of the state of competitiveness in the railway market. In view of the fact that rail transport controls the order of this Railway Market Regulatory Agency, but there are two other agencies, the Agency for the Research of Air and Railway Accidents and the Railway Safety Agency. The question of pre-named agency space over this market is raised, in particular when considering the fact that there are mostly two carriers now in the larger, the smaller or the mercies of the market itself, which is HZ-Cargo and HZ passenger transport. Is the rail market ready to accept new operators? Is there a request on the market? At what cost? It would be very good to know, and what would be the task of this particular agency, such as HACOM on the electronic services and mail market. In fact, the recorded decline in passenger transport of 44% and 7% for the observed period of the report speaks of the need for greater structural incentives and additional efforts precisely to preserve this system. It cannot survive objectively without the help of the state, and the question is how much more efficient it can be in the framework of an existing system, or existing network. The technical description of the railway infrastructure is contained in the Report on the Network, the basic act of the infrastructure manager which is publicly published and speaks about the length and type of railway infrastructure, as well as about the capacities, capabilities and characteristics of its use. HZ infrastructure that he is as the manager of the RH infrastructure manages, as my predecessor has already said from 2722km of normal track track track, 1435mm of rail international traffic, 460 km or 53.65% of rails of regional traffic 600.3 km or 22.05% and rails of local traffic of 661.5 or 24.30%. Of the total length of the RH track, single-colossal stripes have a length of 2468 km or 90.7%, two-way stripes have a length of 254 or 9.3% of the total length of the track in the Republic of Croatia. In 2012, a total of 326 thousand 676 trains were transported by passenger plus freight, in 2011, so the line was transported by 326,821 while in 2010, 335,261 transported by train. But the question arises, what are our real capacities? What are real network capacities and what are entire infrastructures? And is it optimal and can the optimal values of the network and the entire infrastructure be expected to develop the current economic situation of the Republic of Croatia? Otherwise, without it, we'll hardly have any more serious markets. The task of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency is that I have already stated, therefore by means of procedures either by initiative or by official duty, it affects changing the conditions of the rail service market in terms of removing obstacles and achieving greater transparency. Therefore, the party's action involves giving prior consent and resolving members of the management body of the infrastructure manager, supervision of the negotiations of the manager and railway undertaking at the level of the fee and the resolution of complaints by railway undertakings on decisions of the infrastructure manager. In 2012, as already stated here several times and this agency received 7 complaints from railway undertakings, 5 of which were resolved, and 2 were received in the second half of December and resolved in 2013. The complaints made showed all the weaknesses and shortcomings in the legal framework that should be the basis for a decision by appeal, so they had to be rejected for procedural reasons. The complainants declared complaints for whose resolution the agency was not in charge, the access contract, compensation for damages or some procedural assumption for the handling of the complaint was not reached. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services analysis and monitoring of the state of competition, in the rail market, implies a permanent monitoring of all the conditions, phenomena and indicators in the rail market, and a response to additional data and evidence, a request to clarify consular meetings and to take and impose measures aimed at removing obstacles to the functioning of the rail market. The procedures under official duty which had special importance are the procedure of analysis, the methodology of the fee for the use of rail services and its compliance with the principles and scheme for calculating the fee, the procedure of analysis and the opinion of the Agency on the draft network report 2014, is also one of the primary procedures under official duty conditioned by the importance of that act which determines the operating conditions of the railway market. El. energy needed to tow trains is a segment of the market that required special attention. The regulatory financial reports monitor the essential element of the functioning of the market, the independence of the basic functions of the infrastructure manager. The Agency for the Regulatory of the Market for Railway Services achieves the public and transparency of work through the publication of data on the website through the right of all interested in access to information and through the annual report on the work submitted to the Croatian Assembly. But we are all aware that the only way of functioning of this agency as well as rail transport will be only in a logically optimal and efficient rail transport strategy that will allow the flow of passengers and economic content or goods to be made available to our rail network, provided that this rail network we are reflecting, expanding, making it more flow, faster and more efficient. Finally, the SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Agency's report on regulation of the rail market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69857	Thank you. The replicas Mladen Novak and Boro Grubisic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69858	Thank you very much. A fellow Rilje you said at the very beginning an increase in the number of complaints is probably the result of trust. Well, the pure truth is to say it isn't, I don't want to challenge your good faith in it. The fact is that operators are simply forced because they were told a year before that you didn't complain about it all right. And they didn't complain a year before that because they were rejected at the beginning and there's no way they could get away with anything. It's simply the consequence of that. What I object to this agency is the lack of that proactive approach. None of the taxes listed on half the page or a little more than half the pages of several irregularities in the laws, indeterminateness, insufficient normity but there is no quality proposal by the agency, and make sure that the agency is Croatian and the operators are Croatian and one and the other regardless of this development of what was, there is no long, and the infrastructure manager is Croatian. Hence, it was of interest to include all those who could make some contribution in making their contribution. You asked what was the real possibility of other operators. I'll tell you honestly, very big. But why? Because of the insiders, because of the bad contracts, because of the contracts that suit those people, but some of them are also former inside, and that's not an accident. The minister's reaction, his goodwill, was lagging behind, but I believe more and more that the situation is being properly resolved even if it is painful but to be resolved in quality. But these moves all made by the minister, we heard today is not just in this segment of rail traffic. A lot of things that are in his resor, unfortunately, are all condemned in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69859	The replica matches Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69860	Dear colleague Novak, you come from the system and I believe what you're saying and I believe it and that's why I said that the unity of the system, the existing system that should be and is not only in the network but in the beginning when we're starting to actually matter everything. Infrastructure but also the entire network of rails and everything we have that we can link if and how we can connect. So I agree with you in principle but the fact that I can't answer your question is there a possibility of entering the insider or not at what cost for the optimality of the system. There are other systems and it's happened anyway, and that's why there's agencies, and that's why there's this agency. I noted that here three agencies regulate this area, which might be different in some other markets or in the markets of some other services. In any case, I agree with you that we should keep the strategy, and we are here now in a situation where when we talk about the agency we also need to talk about the strategy, and the strategy is the one that decides actually about the fate of the management of some kind of resources. In this case, the entire resource seems to me to be the second or third in the state the second one seems to me the size of the state and very important, which is the system of rail transport. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69861	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69862	Thank you very much. A colleague of Rilje, yes, is working to ensure that there is no way, not only that there is no other means of rail transport and rail transport in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, I would say that the government here is actually between the minister and the three railway organisations, so HZ-Infrastructure, HZ-Road Transport and HZ-Cargo are actually the people's "toss and rule". And then there's a complaint being made by this agency that you've been talking about. Of those 7 complaints, 5 were resolved in 2012 and you know why these complaints failed? It is beautifully written, because of the inequitableness or ineligibleness of the agency, and you know that the division of three parts of Croatian railways employs many people who have a much higher salary than you, and even ministers and presidents of the Government in the Croatian Railways, both in Cargo and in Travel Transport, and especially in Infrastructure. And such people do not know that their complaint will not, therefore, be responsible for the complaint and the success of the complaint, and they will bear a complaint that does not go away, and that which is the cause, the inadequacy and the iniquities, and look at the wages on the railway, and you will see what it is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69863	The replica matches Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69864	Dear fellow Grubisic, I trust your word, except for what I did not look at. For what I've looked at, I know it myself. Unfortunately, this is another system that came from an old system that should be restructured as a whole because we actually live in capitalism. What we can pull to make it a healthy story, that's another pair of shoes. And we're going back to the strategy, you know that yourself, because now for a while we're actually going to talk in this discussion about what's guilty and what we can talk about now about the Agency's work, and we're actually going to talk about the strategy all the time because it's the only thing that matters. I agree with you that it should and that it is national importance to preserve the unity of the system, but also the system must be able to pay itself, it must function, it must be sustainable at least with some help from the state, but sustainable. When it starts to be unsustainable, when it starts to be expensive and we have to pay it all together, then it's a problem, and it's happened to us over the years, not only to this system, but to be generated in many systems and so on in the railways, especially to leave the economy, we come back only from what it represented before, not just ports and the system of cargo and freight and transport of cargo and passengers, and what it really means today. We've always coughed in something. Well, that may be closer to me, from telecommunications, mail and something else, but the fact is, the same thing happened around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69865	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club, the distinguished vice president of Dom Milorad Batinic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, President of the Board of Directors with an associate. We at the HNS club, the Liberal Democrats don't see any reason why we can't support this report, the more content it is and on the trail of itself and content and what we have been able to read from this report, the more we will support this report. In my debate, I will concentrate more on the table that this report gives us, but it may not be burning all together to remember the very beginning of the Agency's work. On 18 July 2007, a law was adopted establishing the Agency for the Regulation of the Railway Markets, and it began to operate exactly two years later by forming the Governing Council and after the adoption of the statutes of the Agency, conditions were created for its smooth functioning. Just a report in terms of concept and content, as I have said well, is acceptable to us, especially laymen who may not have had too much information about the railway system itself, its organisation and the history itself of Croatia's independence gives a little more and more complete insight, and it also gives a single cross-section of the state and HZ infrastructure and now according to the new structure of Croatian passenger transport and HZ-Carg. This agency worked on two basiss in 2012. The first quarter as reported in the report and the next three quarters as an independent agency, but also with organisational different conditions. So it is not worse to remember that in early 2012 there were four daughters who formed a new three independent companies. What is also very interesting, which is the very technical description of the existing infrastructure, i.e. the indicator of the state of the railway infrastructure and the tax data listed, but above all the traffic from which indicators can be read a lot. What I would like to commend is point 326-Controlling the quality of rail services provided by railway undertakings. I believe that this is something that is primarily interested in both economics and citizens, means the level of service provided by the Croatian railways themselves. So it also means a series of opportunities, i.e. what is still ahead of us, and what is above all on the resolution ministry, as well as on the administrations of independent companies and infrastructures and transport of freight, i.e. carg and passenger transport, which is particularly important in the coming years. What I'd like to point out, I'm saying I'm a layman, so I'd like to pray if I've spoken wrong. Namely, the table picture speaks very clearly of the state itself, which has given us great interest in talking about the number of trains in passenger traffic, so when you see how many in millions of passengers transported, you simply come by math to get 106 passengers per year on the train. I think it's about the level of two cars that I remember from high school days when we were still driving to high school with our partner, how profitable it is. Furthermore, when you look at the same statistical data, the number of trains in freight, so when you say transported goods in millions of tons, it turns out that five wagons pull one freight train. Furthermore, when you look at the review, it means comparative rail transport, road transport, maritime, air transport, and when you see that the share of passengers transported by type of railway transport is 29%, road 55, sea and coastal 13, air 2%. When you put this also in the context of the transported goods rail transport 11%, road transport 64%, maritime coastal 25, air 0 I think it's a very short cut and a concept of the state itself in the railway. There were many questions why and what does this government do to improve the situation in the railways? So I think the first steps that were taken were during December of last year, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways where 20 lipes from means excise income is paid to HZ Infrastructure. At the beginning, I said that nothing begins or ends with this government. It's also the same thing to remember one thing. On 17 July 2003, at an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament, this is the period of the coalition government's decision, meaning the declaration of the Law on Railways, where the Article 31, which defines the financing of the railway infrastructure in paragraph 2 of the asset from the sale of the price of oil derivatives is EUR 0,60 per litre for the maintenance of railway infrastructure. So it took 10 years to start doing something about the railway infrastructure and the functioning of the Croatian Railways themselves again. However, on February 25, 2004, the government of Ivo Sanader abolished that article of the law with a brother-in-law explanation which I certainly don't think the biggest macroeconomicists, businessmen, people who are out of business can't understand, I can't understand. Hypothetically, if it had not been for the abolition of that paragraph of Article 2. 31. We're talking about 11 billion kunas in 8 years that would be collected from these bases, 11 billion kunas. In fact, you'll find it in the presses of that time, as well as the current dates. It says 60 limes per litre of fuel, I draw parallels with Croatian highways and Croatian roads was introduced in 2002. And now on in one report, it says, it's about 15 billion. About 35 billion have invested in Croatian highways. Of course, of these 35 billion are also mentioned some controversial 8 billion at the time of Sanader's government. If this were to be reduced either by those 8 billion lost or, as some billions say here, to invest by some chance, that the HDZ government at the time invested in railways, I think today's debate would be quite different. And to avoid these questions from fellow Boric, unfortunately he's not here right now, I have to mention him. That the government lost two years without any movement in the railroad. That's just not true. "Where and what blind street did the minister bring the railroad to?", I quote you fellow Boric. 11 billion, so in 2004, your government, led by Ivo Sanader, abolished Article 2 of Article 31 that Racan's government defined as sources of revenue for the railways. My colleagues and colleagues, of course, I may have come out of the debate on the Agency's own report. However, I think it was necessary to mention it. Did the agency have five requests for arbitration, did she have seven? Well, I don't think it's that important right now. I am convinced that the rest of the government's policy on Racan's Government's railways in 2003 has accepted the proposals at that time, that it has accepted a complete plan for the development of the restructuring of Croatian railways I think today the agency would have far more to do, so that it would not only discuss between HHI Infrastructure, Cargo or Travel Transport than there would be far more entities whose problem would have to be manifested by the agency. I note once again that the Croatian People's Party supports the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69867	Thank you. Now we move on to the replicas that are 6. Young Novak is first in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69868	Thank you very much. I'm going to keep in mind what your opening statement is so that I don't say an apology that you're not too professional at it, that you're a layman, so I won't go denying any of your exposure, and there would be a lot of it. You mentioned rentability. Your profitability is a very relative concept when it comes to railways because among other things you need to look at both environmental and energy efficiency and the mass of what goes with that part, I believe you know what I'm talking about. And I don't think it's right to mention rentability in that part. As far as the same rentability is concerned, you once mentioned the filling of trains or timetables and what kind of timetable it is, so I'll show you just to remind you that you have on benches, we got before day, two, the minister's answer to my question about the organisation of the transport on the Sisak track and on the Lonjska railway so-called. it is Zagreb-Long Village-Novinska which is more than a disgrace. This would bring a far better answer to children from grade 5 through 8, and I know the minister didn't write it, I don't expect the minister to write answers, but at least someone could look at who has at least some basic knowledge of the railroad. This is a shame! The law on the distribution of finances you mentioned earlier, excise fees, I asked the question in the debate whether when a foreign operator comes in here and has no obligation to spend, tank the fuel here, will you ask him to stand out for rail infrastructure and roads? How are you going to separate it? Why didn't she comply with our operators' request a few years ago to allow them to tank the blue elevator? And not all the time they have to finance the competition and falsely display funds that are separate from the railways, which is simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69869	Time. Thank you. The replica corresponds to the vice president of Dom Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely colleague Novak, rentability why not? If societies are as organisational as they are, it does not mean that this excludes the support of the state because we are aware that without the support of the state, the question of how many railways rarely work in the world. However, I agree that I may have chosen the wrong word. I would first of all say sustainability, sustainability of the railway system. And that says, you've just partially responded as far as the timetable itself is concerned. One rail that passes through my place, we've all been to hold back and it's going to stay, it's going to stay. However, there is a lot of illogicality and inability to define the timetable itself. However, it does not depend solely on the will as it was written to agree with the units of the area, or regional (local) self-government, to try to define even I got an offer to co-finance something simple that does not come to mind. We simply have to leave some things to the market for sustainability. However, what bothers me very much in that part of the response I received from the passenger transport authorities that they cannot, that the union requires them to define the timetable. That was the first time. I don't know if it's still like that. Furthermore, that I can't, the train that can't leave one station at 20.20 because then the driver of the locomotive has no way to get back to the place of the apartment. If we're talking about the answers that I got, I think there's any interpretation of why not rentability and sustainability at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69871	A new replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69872	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, you spoke about the restructuring of Croatian railways. That sounds nice. And you were talking about how in that restructuring, let's not say that I'm guilty in some way, but that the responsibility is equally borne by the former government. The former government restructured the Croatian railway so that it abolished the Najice-Pleternica and Sirac-Daruvar railway. These are their contributions to the restructuring of HH. So we didn't build anything and we lifted about 70km of railroad during the term of office of the former government. That actually encouraged the road lobby and it went hand-to-hand, the lobby not to tell the bus lobby is in the area. And as for Croatia is a railway and its sustainability, so we know that no railway nor German, therefore deutschebahn does not go without therefore state support and support from the German state. But you in Germany have a train station in every village and train to a bigger place, and I'll talk about it when I'm up for debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69873	A new replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69874	Thank you very much. My colleague Batinić, you spoke of some times behind us, but it is not a waste to mention that you haven't said everything. The government, when it left in 2003, gave Croatian railways a guarantee of billions and 400 million kuna at the time of the 6th month, the government leaving. It took over 600 million kuna guarantees from then on from 2001 and 2002 at Raiffeisen and Zagreb Bank, and in the course of the construction of highways that were built intensively for 8 years, HZ is a large part of its assets by comparing HZ budgets from 2004 to 2011 which were twice as high as today. No one can argue with that. Today you're having the lowest level of exposure. And what does the government do? The government is giving them a guarantee again, recently 220m euros in a way that avoids the state deficit. It'll come sooner or later on someone's checkout and somebody's gonna book it. These are the ways we think today. Will this allocation of this highway fee and what we had for roads help HZ will show time. And if it will help someone else and it will show time but the fact that a year has been lost in negotiating with some partner who eventually gave up has brought HZ into a state that nothing has been done for almost a year and that situation, now we will transfer it to you in such a form now will break on the back of the workers. The first part is already leaving, and this is the minister's failure, it's nobody's failure, it's the minister and this government, not some 2004 or 2008 government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69875	The replica corresponds to Vice President Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. However, if you had heard of it, Racan's government left the programme, Racan's government had by law ensured the financing and return of these guarantees. You said the railroads in those eight years of the government's mandate got out of the budget. So we see how much she got what we have today, what condition in the railroad, how much, what our condition in the railroad is. So I think if that was enough that the two mandates at the time gave me today we should discuss what I say should be in the future. Unfortunately, it turned out to be a failure, it turned out to be the wrong policy, it turned out to be the wrong move. On the contrary, that is the data; that is the argument. What you're saying is it's been a year, yeah, why not. what can be placed on the market, in which part should be placed on the market, but according to the rentability and sustainability model.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69877	Replica Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69878	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad you reminded me of those excise duties. But I'm surprised that you're surprised that in the government of Ivo Sanader, they abolished those excise duties, they stopped all the positive reforms that the government has initiated, and I have to tell you I'm extremely pleased that these excise duties have been lifted because these 11 billion kunas are an excellent income that would have ended well in the black bags of FINIA and similar agencies. About the shipyard and the way they were saving the shipyard, I won't, but that's how they saved the railroad and now they educate us about how it's been a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69879	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69880	Dear Vice President Stazic, dear Vice President Batinić, I will only refer to one of your sentences with which I fully agree. You said a little I got out of the debate box. You had to come out, it's context just please the second time we come out of the debate don't stop us and warn us, you see that it's human.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69881	Vice President Batinic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I told my colleague Vuksic in the introduction that we do not see any reason not to support the report and that my debate would be not so much about the agency's work but about what was contained in this report and, of course, if we could. And I also said that when we discuss the agency's work, it means something the agency sees, what the agency reads. And believe me, I don't think I did, and I believe that Vice President Stazic listened very carefully, that I went too outside the box to warn me he was.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69883	The last replica of Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69884	Thank you. Comrade Batinić, you said in one part of your ten-year exposure. Well, just have a brief summary. In preparation for the 2004 budget, this Law on Railways was adopted where a permanent source of excise income should be provided for the development of infrastructure. At the same time, negotiations were held for a more favourable European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 11 billion kunas of investment investments in railways and gasification were planned. It should be recalled that this is the time when GDP in Croatia grew between 5.6 and 6%. Why, for the budget after the decision on temporary financing and the 2004 budget, the new government first abolished this permanent source of revenues for the railway and, at the same time, said counterpart Boris, significantly increased support for railways from the budget. The State Audit Office also gave us regular reports when he audited the Croatian railways so that they did not generate income or cover salaries and support should go for investments, restructuring, and one part for transport support to increase transport, transport subsidies and not pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69885	The replica matches, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in part here, I'm going to quote my colleague, Tomic, that by any chance I hope that it wouldn't have been so that it went to those 11 billion that I was talking about a quick calculation, for those eight years to be singled out, it might have ended up as well as these eight billion that were at stake with total investment during HDZ in the construction of the highway. Here's because it wasn't like that now. This might be a little bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69887	On behalf of the HDSSB Club, the debate will be held by respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. from the agency of the regulation of the rail market, colleagues and colleagues. When someone talks about great roads, about fast trains, bending, bending, others, about a safe airline carrying passengers like Ryanair all the way to New York, etc. Or to Tokyo when it comes to great planes connecting our islands instead of bridges, then I have to say that it's demagogy when they drag you into a tunnel and then they tell you about the light at the end of the tunnel. And so this report that we have actually started this debate about our Croatian railway about the three companies that were mentioned here, which the agency gentleman has done absolutely nothing to do with, but there's some kind of regulatory factor or factor that doesn't correspond because it's also seen in the complaints that were filed in 2012, there are as many as 7 of which 5 were even solved and so that the agency is declared to be incompetent or the deadlines are exceeded, complaints under the general administrative procedure under which the agency acted as each of the 180 agencies there are, and in Germany there is one agency, as the minister says, so he will now associate with another agency and this agency, so that there is a reduction from 180 to 179 agencies in the Republic. This will save us the work and the paying for the work of those agencies. Someone here mentioned the Air Safety Agency, the Telecommunications Agency, etc. So I guess we're going to put it together, I don't know which one, but it's going to do the same job as it's done so far, so it's going to solve seven appeal procedures a year, and it's going to solve four of those external factors that they've asked for, for example. The morning journalist's question, referring to the Law on the Right of Information, so Nikola North Sheni asked about cooperation with Sobola's companies and King ITC. I would like to hear or perhaps have not read what this collaboration between this agency and Sobli looked like, it would be very interesting to read and whether there is or whether there is a transfer of money between the agency or these companies. It would be good to hear that because we also know the owners of certain companies in this country. So I'm not talking about the agency. I'm talking about these companies. The other two requests for information were set up by the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, which was by then the Kukuriku coalition in power was obviously the Office of Prime Minister Milanovic. And the 4th is Mr. Tom Bačić's request by a correspondent in the Gazete International magazine in connection with the tow procedure. That we have more tow trucks. In fact, when we look at the word and study the word restructuring and modernisation, then increase traffic, then invest in HZ. We must remember the time when those same words were used to restructure, modernise and invest in Viktor Lenc from 2000 to 2003 and then later in other shipyards. But there we don't mention as if we're... The high priest is all here not supreme in the sense of the worse than the one who called himself that. So we're not talking about it today. About the bottomless bag starting from the shipyard, and it became the HZ because those to whom the state administration said Boric had given, touched a billion and 400 million kuna, so the administration of these railways, which was set up by a party like now, could not manage that money and did not modernise, has not restructured, has not improved the rail network, nor has it increased the number of passengers, nor has it increased the burden on those railways. Well, then we have the kind of report we have that says that the number of passengers in just two years has been halved, the number of passengers on HH. So when we look at that statistic, then we see this finely, it says that in 2010, I guess it's 69, it says in thousands, so it's 70 million passengers, and it's 2012. 27 million and 660. No 50% or reduction is greater than 50% of passengers. Today, from Slavonski Brod or from Osijek, it travels 30 percent more time, we're talking about time than it did 40 years ago when they were litigators yet. Who knows who's older knows steam locomotives? Where it is and whether or not we have talked about the restoration, here is Jasen Mesic knows there and the edges of the Unske railway, which was electrified, connected Split and Zagreb in 5 hours as well as the highway today, Marijanexpress was driving. We have no idea about that. Today it is driven to Volinje, so Zagreb does not know Volinja it goes traffic so, here and there. The modernisation of HZ is under way, and we're talking about a two-wheel rail, here we have a report, a two-way track is only 10% of the total mileage of HZ 2700km around 2560, 260km is a two-way track. One is from Novska to Tovarnik, to the border with Serbia, and the other is Botovo-Zagreb. These are the only two track tracks that can have fast flow just because they're two tracks. We no longer have two-wheel rails anywhere, and we are talking about 5B, 5C, 10 Pan-European corridor heading east towards Belgrade, Sofia, Athens, Thessaloniki, in Thessaloniki, we are talking about 10 corridors. Today, Europe has established a new network of pan-European rail routes. And do you know how many of these pan-European directions Croatia has? None. The main traffic route south goes Greece-Bulgaria-Romania-Austria-Austria-Germany to Denmark. No, Croatia is bypassed, even Serbia is bypassed unlike the southern stream where it allegedly goes. The Pan-European railway route bypasses the countries of the former Yugoslavia. That's what we keep quiet and don't talk about here. Today is the turn of this agency's report, and I have nothing to say about it because the gentleman and the agency listed all the data, they listed the costs of this agency costing 2.5 million kuna, and when we look at some of the costs spent by this country, it doesn't seem like much, but if we're in the savings phase, if we're in the maximum cost-cutting phase, then it's actually this agency that brought us this report to some extent I'm not going to say unnecessary, but here it is, it can be connected, it can exist, and it doesn't have to. The railway in the Republic of Croatia during the rule of the former HDZ government has reduced the number of km of the railway because two railways have been lifted. Here it is now reportedly encouraged to take action to reconstruct the Našice-Pleternica track, sometimes the vessels of the housewives at the time of the Slavonia war, mainly this part of the middle and western Slavonia, the vessels of the house that connected the Podravina with the Posavina across the north-South direction, because the other railways on that 5C corridor were actually available to the artillery of Serb gangs or under occupation. Look, as a child, I stayed very often at a train crossing in Slavonski Brod, which to this day is a railway crossing, and there are no underpasses, where I liked to watch trains pass and then I was counting cars. Almost no freight train was without 50 or more wagons. Today it stands on the ramp, on that same mustache, as you would like to say, however Croatian, stands 300 cars, 150 on one side and 150 on the other to pass the train with two passenger cars on the Vinkovci-Slavonski Brod. In these two wagons sits three or four men together with the conductor. As long as Croatia's railway with poor administration and poor ministry collapsed, that's terrible. It's unpredictable, and it can really happen that this resource Bismarck told us that without a strong railway, there's no strong state, so he put all the villages in Germany on the railroad. If you see from Worms via Frankenthal to Mannheim you have a third-class train, so in Mannheim you catch I Centralization E for Muenchen, and in Muenchen you catch a train for Jesenice and for Slovenia and for Croatia, and that's all waiting for 5 minutes. So it's set up to drive order that you only have five minutes. And leave today from Slavonski Brod at 9:15 if a regular train to Zagreb, and a train to Rijeka, so our workers who work in Rijeka mass because they have no business in Slavonia, the train to Rijeka left at 15 to 9, half an hour before the train arrived from Slavonia. And what do these people do? What the agency does, does she say to that passenger traffic, so wait till he sets up that order of driving as God commands so that people from Slavonia can catch a train to Rijeka. I would expect by the name of this agency that it falls under the work of that agency and that order of driving, but it's obvious to someone to take these people on a bus to Rijeka. It's someone's purpose. So it's actually how you react, replicas, and it's working on destroying the Croatian Railways, and that's either the main goal or the sale of giving to foreigners here as was Gruio Stoica who ended up as he ended up, and a day or two before his arrest, the minister happily announced that he finally interrupted negotiations with this respective gentleman of suspected economic and economic credibility. In fact, it seems to me that we are slowly putting, or not us, but this government, the nail in the coffin of Croatian railways for which all the governments that have ruled in the Republic of Croatia are responsible for this case and for its construction, because when we look at the railways in the 1990s, so before the war and today, then we see an incomparable difference but on the worse rather than the better. The fact that the agency, as someone said here, is to quote the paravalda's body and to be placed neutrally in these complaints of HZ-Carg and Travel Traffic, so that's quite clear. Therefore, the general administrative procedure was respected and such a decision was made that the complaints were not timely, were not valid and thus nothing can be resolved. See only chart or picture 4 on page 14 so you will see how this is compared, writes here comparatively, could be written a parallel display, Croatian would say a comparative display rather than a comparative display, the number of passengers transported. So you will see that Croatia's railway has a steep drop in passenger transport, and everyone else, even air transport along with a carrier like we have and then sea coastal transport and road transport have an approximately stable curve, quite stable. It's the only rail traffic that's going down. And if we are talking here about guidelines and directives of the European Union, which one of the main reasons state environmental reasons, we know that the railroad pollutes quite certainly less air than road transport, but despite all this, we persistently, persistently, simply as if deliberately destroying our Croatian railway, i.e. the companies that are now three, were four in HZ-Holding, before it was Infrastructure, Traveling Transport, Cargo and Wolf Trains. Train tow's gone. And another thing, about our railway, first of all, about HZ-Carg depends not only on the development of Croatia's railways but also on many companies from Luka Rijeka, as said Boris Luke Ploče, from Gredelj, Đura Djakovic, Končar and many others. Here's Novak to give me a replica and tell me which other companies. So it's not only three and a half thousand HZ-Carg employees that depend on HZ-Carg, it's another 20,000 people who are busy in Croatia today. When HZ-Cargo kneels and lays down what the minister thinks, and these people are going to lose their jobs in large part and lose their jobs. Are they aware of that in this government? Report as a report, I wouldn't even comment on it. But the situation on the railroads is very, very serious, not to say dramatically. Now that it's time, I won't talk anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69889	We have six replicas, first Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69890	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic, just to correct one of your inaccuracies. It is not true that the Republic of Croatia is not on any corridor. It is known that there are 9 corridors of the EU's basic transport network, and that two are determined according to Croatia. They are a railway-road corridor that goes on about Rijeka – Zagreb to Budapest, so-called 5B corridor or part of Mediterranean corridor. And there's this river corridor popularly called the 7th, and it's about the Rivers. It goes from Rayna, Danube to the Black Sea. This is an overall EU policy aimed at connecting 94 ports, 38 airports, aimed at developing a road and rail network, and for which there is already already set out in the 26 billion-euro fund to finance all projects on those corridors. This is true and our problem is that another corridor of the Adriatic-Ionian has failed to become one of these basic EU corridors and cannot be financed by the continuation of the highway to Dubrovnik, etc. And here these two corridors will depend on the success of the Croatian government as well as how to withdraw funds to develop these corridors. The way it started, we're saying it's not gonna be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69891	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69892	Dear fellow Boric, you are obviously not well informed. I must tell you that I was at a meeting of the Committee on Transport of the European Parliament, which is called TRAN, which is how it is used to be, is the transport where the presentation of the new railway corridor was the most communicable which could be, from the north, from Denmark to the south, which is exactly how I described its routes to say, so it goes and bypasses all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. This gave them a much shorter route, and already look at the Internet and you will see the construction of a new bridge on the Danube which is the second largest bridge even across any river in Europe. Maybe it's just that Istanbul over the Bosporus that's a long bridge. Its construction ends just in connection, it's a railway bridge in connection with that corridor. So this 5B, 5C and 10th is what it is. Sub corridors like you have from the southern flow of the collateral, so these corridors that you call corridors are actually sub, below the corridors, side-by-side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69893	Replica, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69894	Thank you very much. Here I am reluctant to replicate my colleague at the club, but Mr Grubisic mentions the bending and detachable trains. In fact, we for Slavonia had this IC train that almost two hours ago got to Osijek faster than these current trains. Well, we didn't have a colleague, Grubisic, according to Slavonia, any deaths. But when it comes to being on time, then we can say that on average, at least an hour late to Osijek. Thus, usually the path does not last more than 3 times, but it can take 6 hours. So I ask you, is this a new punishment for Slavonia and Baranja, and does the minister have to apologize for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69895	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69896	This government colleague Bubalo, who has the same omen as her since 2000, should apologize for something else. In fact, at the time these purchased trains were so tilty that they were for U-Bahn and S-Bahn, so-called. The fast trains in Berlin are going. So there are U-Bahn and S-Bahn that are not suitable. That is why they may be suitable for Slavonia because we do not, and in the Rudins we have experienced what we have experienced. So, he was really dying back then. So on those trains it was supposed to be so-called. The kitchen and there were supposed to be appliances and so on and stewardesses etc. which would provide one comfort on those trains. Unfortunately, these machines have been paid, and they've never been installed. So perhaps even in today's government, you should ask one of the ministers where these kitchens and these instruments that were supposed to be installed in the so-called. The car to the restaurant. And as far as Slavonia is concerned, it's for us to expect to be cut off wherever they can, it's a normal phenomenon, we've Googled it so it's nothing weird to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69897	The line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69898	Thank you very much. Well, now I've been listening to this debate between my colleagues, Boric, and you about the corridor, and at the same time I've been looking that way, and I've seen from the comments that we're going to get the right answer that are corridors, which they're not. According to some of my information corridors no longer exist as such but we use them in daily speech, and it's called a trans-European network if I'm well informed, but I believe from these trips and meetings of the internationals that you certainly have better quality information than we do. As for what I was reacting to. As for the fall of transport, there's one detail that goes by that people are probably not even aware of it. The transport organization during the railway prison is likely to tell, and why it keeps closing the tracks. Unfortunately, we have them every day and on all the tracks. The organisation of transport is within the scope of the infrastructure manager. And now we have a situation that I have personally experienced on several occasions, that between you and Velika Gorica and Turopolje are transporting buses. However, an electric train has 236 seats and has some 170 passengers. And there's two buses. Those two buses carry 100 and some passengers standing on each other, so they have to come back to do the same again. Is it within the Agency's domain, is it conscious of the collapse and reputation and gain? Because those passengers who try it once won't travel anymore, then they'd rather get on the bus and bring Sisak-Zagreb in a piece, but double-sit, he doesn't know what he's waiting for. Is this in the Agency's domain because it definitely affects the work and competitiveness of our operators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69899	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69900	Comrade Novak, two buses for 170 passengers, you say. I wish there was one train heading east, and according to the Vinkovs, I see 170 passengers, and I haven't seen it in a long time. But if it is already necessary to translate from Turopolje to Gorica 170 passengers, and it might be good for the agency to prescribe that, as in India, you will be placed on the roof as the Indians travel, then you should no longer return, so they would take these passengers to one of their own, in their dwarves and over.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69901	Next replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69902	Dear fellow Grubisic, you have fought every honour for outside the context status which is good, is there no Mr Batinić to comment on. And second, I'm glad you admitted that something before the 1990s was better than it was today. It was a railroad or a lot of things, like a relationship to workers, etc. You were talking about how many trains are driving today and you said the number of passengers has been cut in half, they've been driving for a long time. Well, probably less passengers spend the same time as before. Now it is clear to me why Mr. Lesar, when he goes from Čakovec to Zagreb, is carrying a bag of food because it takes hours for his ride, and it is quite certain that the abundant diet is good, hanging out on the train because it takes a long time. Friendships are being made, and maybe that's how the Labourists will get more members.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69903	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69904	Comrade Vuksic, your club president, Mr. Lesar, he's on a train because he doesn't have a driver's license, so that's why. And she's carrying food with her, so it's an old Međimurje-Zagorian custom. Oh, yeah. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69905	Last line, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69906	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague you spoke in your replica about sticking nails into the coffin of the Croatian Railways. Yeah, you were talking in the replica about sticking, so nails in the coffin. I would not agree with this finding because it is a clear strategic commitment from this government to, therefore, the railways are precisely strategic and bearer and to invest strategically both through European funds and through budget funds, and primarily through European funds. And that what they were highways in the past period to be railways in the next period. In times past, it seems to me that he's overly insistent on these highways and that the railroads have been ignored. I don't want to be held accountable right now, but it was such a strategic commitment, and now it seems the opposite to me. When I talk about things that are happening now, it's of course about restructuring that is always difficult. I'd like to compare it to a situation in shipbuilding where we've put billions of them through all these years and kept some jobs. Some people have also earned pensions there, but the question is that we put these billions in the economy towards those healthy foundations, so to healthy organisations in the economy, would they actually make better use of these money, generate more jobs and preserve the number of those that were preserved in this way at a high price in shipbuilding. I know it's always popular to talk about keeping jobs, but no company is public, either private or private can be a social institution. It is difficult to say this, but a clear social policy must be conducted within the Ministry of Social Policy and Social Welfare, not within any company or any economic operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69907	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69908	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague, for this good question and for modernising the Croatian Railways, not sticking nails into the coffin, the last nail, the last. Namely, it's convenient to point out the replica on the replica. So, for example, to drive from Osijek 2 hours longer than 10 years ago. That the map costs 50 kuna. From Slavonski Brod the bus has been driving for 2 and a half hours, and train 3 and a half hours today and in the middle of modernization and reconstruction of Croatian railways, which is being carried out by your government. As far as EU funds are concerned, why don't you tell me if you know if there is a Croatian railway, and there are so many managers of perspective, capable, alike, whether there is one project for Europe? Does that ring a bell? And I'll tell you then there are no completed projects for the EU, no projects available. And how are you talking about EU projects when there are no projects? Here, ask your minister what he will tell you. If the project is to fire 1100 workers from the railroad, well done. Well, they'd say these...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69909	The closing statement will be given by the chairman of the Administrative Council of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, Mr Goran Matešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for all the criticisms, remarks and rare commendations. The amount of your remarks above all refers to a hot chestnut called the Croatian Railways and the Railway System, so there is so much one part of your remarks, criticism and debate is not related to the Agency's jurisdiction and neither is this Report. It could only be a cause in so many of your comments regarding the relationship of the owner to the railway system, the agency is not the owner, and it cannot even be responsible for what the owner does in relation to the system concerns the organisation, the organisation of the carrier and at all the implementation of a system called the rail market. And now, specifically on the remarks, a small number of complaints the complainants believe the agency will reject them, complaints dismissed. In our report, we could be a little more categorical, say that operators who have made five complaints that have been rejected do not have a quality legal service so that they can be legally protected, protect their rights. This is definitely true because all these decisions, which have been rejected because of malpractice or inadequacy, show that those who have become powerful and show that those who have gone through legal protection are not so qualified as to be able to make a valid complaint. At the end of the year, these two complaints, which were not resolved in that year, were resolved later. These are complaints which have basically been raised on similar issues but were technically acceptable that the agency could discuss them. The two complaints we will discuss next year's report but can now be said are adopted and the regulator has annulled one part of the provisions of the network report and ordered the infrastructure managers to correct them. A small number of complaints, even in other systems, there are no excessive number of complaints in other regulators, even where there are a large number of new and private operators they rarely decide to make a complaint as part of some culture. However, any complaint made by the infrastructure manager shall be subject to its control without appeal. It is logical that in our system where there are two monopolies one in freight transport and the other in passenger transport where all under quotes problems were solved inside the house at a meeting probably politically motivated but not market-based, they do not have a culture of complaints. The legal framework is insufficient whether the agency was giving the Government of the Republic of Croatia a suggestion, whether it was doing something to change the law, so this report is the one, this report is a key act of the Agency. This report is being discussed by the government, the parliamentary committees, whether adopted or not. Once adopted by the Parliament, it becomes a state document. So what we've been doing in the last few years in the report is that it's also in this report, and that's the answer to your question whether we're talking about whether the legal framework isn't enough, is, and in part, the legal framework has been changed and on these grounds. Is discrimination when domestic transporters in the price of fuel if I understand you well they pay and contribute to the construction of the railways and it is not paid by the parties. This is not discriminatory because it applies in the field of the Republic of Croatia to all equally those buying fuel outside either foreign carriers or domestic carriers pay that fuel at the prices applicable in the country where they purchase it. The closure of the railway, whether it is within the authority of the agency, is within the scope of the law and the basis of the EU principle in the domain of the infrastructure manager. The infrastructure manager shall conclude with the owner of a contract of the type of concession contract which undertakes to manage the infrastructure. It must manage not discriminatoryly, transparently, it must make decisions in a manner which is partly prescribed by law and in the other part is controlled by the regulatory body. This principle applies in all European countries. The infrastructure manager is a natural monopoliest. The term of natural monopolies is the term of European directives, so there is no competition, there is no other infrastructure, there is only because it is in a specific situation. Therefore, it must be his conduct laid down by law and supervised by the regulatory body. Rentability, whether or not he can cover some railways with these costs to a significant extent in his autonomy. When we talk about passenger transport that is in another mode than freight transport, passenger transport can be subsidized and it is generally in all European countries subsidized... the contracts are then a different situation but there is another concept that has not yet been implemented by us, which is that the local community, that there are bodies that actually regulate railways in relation to the real needs of citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point, the timetable is determined on the basis of the reporting of the need of the only passenger carrier, so you have cases that the train is leaving, say, this may not be quite accurate, but as an example in two hours and people end up working at three o'clock. So that train can't get people out of work and it's meant to carry people out of work. At the moment when the timetable is formed exclusively on the basis of the requirements of the sole passenger carrier and without the influence of the local community and other aspects, it is possible or whether this is the present situation. Whether ARTZUP followed negotiations with the Romanians on the sale of HZ CARGO is the issue of the owner's conduct over one of the carriers. It's in the full autonomy of the owner of the state. Is HZ system organisation in accordance with the directives? Well, it is. The Directives speak of the independence of the infrastructure manager in basic functions. Since due to a certain historical burden and the situation in the rail systems in EU countries, you have a situation where this compromise solution has been drawn up, with no conditional independence for everyone. You have full independence or you have no independence. In this regard, the infrastructure manager has been reached by some typical European consensus on the conditional dependence of the infrastructure manager or independence in terms of the allocation of the route and the charge. Our legislator took a step forward and made one concept of complete independence for the infrastructure manager. Time will tell if it's right. Is the contract for renting HZ Cargo's locomotive, if I understand correctly, of renting a locomotive to a company, is that how a new carrier is introduced? The rules on the acquisition of licences and licences are not within the authority of the Agency, these are within the competence of the Agency for the Safety of Transport. So I can't give you an answer to that question. As far as this question is concerned, it seems illogical to me why HZ Cargo would create competition for himself. HZ Cargo is used to the monopoly position. So if that's exactly what you're saying then, but I'm saying it's not in the Agency's jurisdiction. No accession agreements were signed in 2012? Yeah. Is that the Agency's jurisdiction? Not too much. No one signed the contract. Is it discriminatory? If they're all in the same situation, no. But you have a situation where you have a drastic or extreme situation in which no one has signed a contract wanting to put pressure on Holding, which then, as in the earlier year, by administrative means, reduced the amount of compensation and then these carriers signed a retroactive contract. In that case, when the Agency found out about this, it launched an initiative and called for an inspection, the Ministry, the Railways Administration and the Security Agency, stating that the problem was partly related to security because the safety rules did not apply until the contract was signed. Trying to tell the ministry so the Railway Authority should put pressure on carriers whose owners are also on inspection. That's all we could do. The result of this initiative was not that the contract was signed. We didn't have the authority to order anyone to sign a contract because signing a contract isn't in the jurisdiction of this agency. The report you have on your desk is not too late because it was submitted on 19.7.2013, it is being discussed late, but not with our guilt. The paravalda's body was said, the agency is not a paravalda's body, the agency corresponds to the Croatian Assembly. You've established it by law, and you've named me, so it's not the paravalda's body, and I think I'm pretty much the answer to all your remarks. Once again, thank you for your comments and criticism, I hope our annual report will be even more successful by the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69911	Thank you very much. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69912	Thank you very much. I've got a full piece of paper. You've been saying about 15 minutes if I'm not mistaken, I'm not gonna be able to do this. Monopolies, not monopolies as soon as they depend on the infrastructure manager's monopoly and cannot influence it. So the infrastructure manager is destroying both operators with his monopoly. The function of the agency isn't just a regulatory body, so what you said, we filed a report, it's a legal document. Look, it's an alibi. We did, and now everyone's got a chance to say it. What's your job? So isn't it yours to participate actively in finding a solution especially in this situation as we are? I think this is extremely unserious, and that's why I was in the middle of keeping us on this report, but because of this attitude of yours, we'll be against it. Is this really amazing that you're saying we filed a report and we took it off, everyone's getting to know each other. Well, that's embarrassing, so yours is also actively involved in telling people but there are legal holes, there are problems, maybe a proposal for a solution. I think this is extremely unserious. As for fuel, how can you say it's not discriminatory if none of our operators can pour fuel beyond our borders, it is. Shutting down the tracks, you've found that you've virtually alluded to the network report. Such cases abroad, they're gone. There are no advance reports in the German railway network three years in advance where there will be a railway prison, regular maintenance. We've got a network report coming out on Monday on Wednesday, a new railroad prison that's not there. Well, isn't that destroying our operators with your consent because you're not responding. And your rejected complaints, why don't people write anymore or you said they don't have a culture of appeal proceedings. They don't have it because they're writing pro-forms because they know that whatever they're writing was rejected before it came to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69913	Thank you very much. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69914	Thank you very much. So I have to say at the end after the completion of the exhibition that I'm a little surprised because the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has other agencies for visions of transport and for maritime transport and for air etc. But none of them have this kind of status to control everything, and I'm not responsible for anything. I cite an example of the agency for occasional coastal transport in Split. It is an agency without which a ferry line cannot be lifted towards an island or a catamaran high-speed line without the agency telling its own court about it. It must be announced, they report neatly to the ministry as well, and we know what happens in maritime transport. Well, you can't say tomorrow you don't drive a catamaran for that island and that island anymore, as someone says here from tomorrow I don't know what place or less place on a railroad anymore. Well, that agency has to be able to control that this kind of thing doesn't happen. Now, what did you do to make it so, and that's the question. I say, there are examples, and I'm sorry that after our debate, we really doubt whether we need an agency like this or not, and that we have to conclude in addition to what we already said in the statement that we need, that now we don't really need it because we can, everyone does what they want, historical monopolies and do what they want, they don't need to have contracts. If they complain, let them complain, we'll determine what it is and move on, but it's not the citizens' interest, it's not the interest of people who live in this country and we can't, I repeat, for the hundredth time, to live in big cities. Our rural areas have relaxed, and the railways are the best capillaries in these areas, and now we're cutting their lines. Well, of course traffic is falling, of course it's falling everything and profit and everything else, but the agency has to be able to say it can or can't, there are excuses for that, no. That's what one agency says neatly and nicely, this one for maritime traffic. I think they should and are in the same status, whatever anyone here is telling me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69915	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69916	Annual report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2012. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2012 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that with 80 votes in favour, 28 against and 1 abstention has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69917	We will now move to - A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2012 The report is submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on the basis of Article 31. The law on the protection of personal data. You took the materials into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will explain the Deputy Director of the Agency, Mrs Dubravka Dolenc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69918	Thank you, Madam Vice President Zgrebec. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. A nice greeting from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and, in accordance with the legal authority, I submit a report on the work of the Agency for 2012. I'll try to be brief and concrete. I would refer to the analysis of the state of data protection in 2012, and I would also like to show some comparisons of statistical data with 2011 from which we can see some shifts in this area. In fact, when we analyse the implementation of the protection of the Agency's personal data for 2012, there was an increase in the requirements for protection of rights, asking citizens, asking journalists, and the number of supervisory activities was also increased, thereby increasing the Agency's engagement and, of course, certain shifts and results were observed. In fact, if we just look at surveillance activities during 2012, the agency carried out a total of 322 personal data protection controls compared to 2011 when there was 188 surveillance increases of 71.28%. I note that this percentage refers to both direct and indirect supervisions, namely the agency, in its own experiences, but also to the recommendations of twing experts as well as to experts from other competent authorities implementing personal data protection in EU Member States, has focused therefore on sectoral and indirect surveillance since, during this reporting period, which has achieved the desired objective and is certainly their advantage and economics faster and simpler implementation. As I said, the number of rights claims was increased, so 187 requests were received in 2012, while the number was 105, indicating an increase of about 78.09%. In 2012 the Agency resolved 149 requests, while 20% of the requests remained unresolved, however, we say that some of the outstanding requests were received at the end of the year and for these reasons it was not possible to resolve them during the reporting period, and in addition some more complex cases where direct controls were to be carried out in order to further determine the fact-finding situation. Likewise, as regards the citizens' inquiry and here, an increased number of these questions has been seen. So 2012. The Agency received 599 items, of which 19 were transferred from the previous period, so they were received during December 2011 and therefore the total number of cases for 2012 accounted for 618 irregular cases with an increase of 49% compared to 2011. This recorded increase in the number and requirements for the protection of rights and questions indicates the fact that in its work the agency has opened up to the public, primarily through numerous media performances, thus participating in radio shows, television, and has also implemented systematic education in collaboration with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce throughout Croatia in all major cities where it has actually presented two important human rights which are within its jurisdiction: protection of personal data and the right to access to information. Moreover, it should be noted that the agency and its websites regularly publish their opinions, more important solutions, and thus also seek to introduce citizens to the legal processing of personal data. As regards when we are actually carrying out an analysis of the requests submitted during this reporting period, it is important to note that a large number of requests related to the processing of personal data in the Telecommunications Sector, then a large number of requests were related to the illegal processing of personal data in marketing. But what is particularly worrying is the fact that there has been a significant increase in the number of requests relating to the unauthorized processing of personal data on the Internet. This was primarily about the fact that citizens complained and submitted requests for breaking into social networks, breaking into Facebook, creating fake Facebook profiles, creating fake blogs, and other cyber-bulling cases where it was, in fact, published by such content, the perpetrators obviously sought to harm the reputation of those persons against whom these actions were directed. In all these cases, given the dangers of these abuses, and given the power of this media such as the Internet, where the content of such a harsh invasion of privacy is suddenly becoming known to the world public, and given the inability or significant difficulties in removing such content from the Internet, the agencies have indeed made significant efforts in working with relevant state bodies both domestic and foreign. Also, and of course all of this for the purpose of helping citizens to remove their data from the Internet. Part of the request also relates to the processing of personal data in the procedure of enforcement due to the misapplication of the OIB of citizens. This found that there was a change in identity, then publication of data on taxpayers by unauthorized persons, and part of the request also concerned the processing of personal data by new technologies such as video surveillance and biometric data. The Agency adopted 63 administrative acts, solutions, 67 opinions, 4 recommendations, 4 warnings for the purpose of removing irregularities, acting on those requirements. Of these 34 solutions is a request for protection of rights adopted. In 7 resolutions, the requests have been rejected, and in the other part rejected because of the failure to provide relevant evidence or have been suspended. As regards the Agency's solutions, it should be noted that no appeal is allowed against the Agency's solution, but it is possible to initiate an administrative dispute which is actually a legal means of reviewing the Agency's decisions. During 2012, 5 administrative suits were filed, of which a total of 7 rulings were made with two rulings being made in the context of administrative disputes initiated in the previous reporting period. In particular, it should be noted from all these judgments that 6 of the Agency’s rulings were actually accepted, i.e. the applicants were rejected while only one of the Agency’s resolutions was annulled, which actually indicates a high level of legal action by the Agency under its jurisdiction. Now regarding the case where the case has been brought and the case has been returned to the Agency's re-trial, that, in this particular case, the right to protection and that the Agency's decision was legally and justly, since the request requested protection of the name and last name of the person who can be identified on the basis of his name and last name, because of the specificity of the name and last name, and for these reasons, therefore, we have provided protection here as well. As regards work on projects, I would mention a project which was successfully completed by the Agency in 2012 which is to strengthen the Agency's capacity under the IPA 2007 total value of 2 million and 80 000 euros consisting of the purchase of equipment and twing. As part of this project, a whole series of activities have been done, the revision of the Personal Data Protection Act above all, and it is in line with the EU acquis. Furthermore, certification has been carried out in accordance with ISO 27001 information security. A series of promotional materials for children, including the promotional video of the Agency, has also been made, which, therefore, shows in a picturesque and very populist way the Agency, its activities, its role and two rights which were therefore in its jurisdiction. It should also be noted that what I mentioned was the abuse of personal data on the Internet, that the Agency pays particular attention to this, especially bearing in mind children and young people as the most vulnerable group. It also seeks them through various educations and workshops in some way familiar with the responsible service of the Internet and social networks, so in this sense the Agency also organised a whole series of workshops and lectures related to the protection of data of children and young people when it comes to internet use. And I say these workshops were also held in collaboration with the libraries of the city of Zagreb. I would just like to mention one important item, which is that during 2012, the Strategic Partnership Agreement was signed at the establishment of a Centre for Safer Internet, etc. CSI where the Agency signed this with partners, MUP, CARNET, Technical University in Zagreb, Association of Associates in Learning and Other Partners. The aim is to promote computer and information security in the Republic of Croatia. As part of this agreement there is also a website www.secureinternet.hr which is intended for children and parents, teachers in which, therefore, there is a pooled material of partners, advices, brochures on the dangers of the Internet,... advice is on secure behaviour on social networks, familiarity with the cyber crime, and what the AZOP particularly welcomes is the initiative of the MUP in forming the so-called order booten on line registration, so it is an application that is therefore located in the north of the MUP and where anyone can therefore, in the form of a simple application, report all forms of child and youth abuse, so all forms of violence, of course, also online violence. Here's what I'd really like to finish the report, and I'd like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69919	Thank you very much. Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69920	Thank you very much. In fact, in your presentation, you used a lot of foreign words but it bothered me anyway because we are not in the European Parliament but in the Croatian Parliament, but the word that is very important to us in politics is a facebook. I have to admit that I had a big problem at the time of the electoral company that I had a fake facebook profile and I have to admit that I reported it to the police but they never referred me to the Personal Data Protection Agency that would probably help me but I think you should present it to the media. But I would like to congratulate the police on this occasion who, three months later, discovered who was doing my fake profile. So, congratulations to the police but not to the Agency, you mentioned a lot in the facebook report but I think the protection of personal data is important, and so does the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a facebook or we don't have a facebook and that our pages are not being used by someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69921	Replication response, Mrs. Dolentz. From where you're standing, just get in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69922	Here's my thanks for asking. I wanted to say that basically breaking into a facebook and creating a fake facebook profile except, of course, it's a violation of the Personal Data Protection Act is also a criminal offence and it's definitely the police. However, precisely because citizens are complaining to us and we also recognized the dangers of this kind of invasion in privacy, we also took a whole series of measures and we talked about it in numerous radio shows and of course, and during 2012, and also only this now does not apply to the period 2012.With the facebook we did it but only, therefore, does it now not belong to this report to achieve and sort of precisely related to the removal of fake facebook profiles so that I think we really have made the most of it in this respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69923	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party Branko Vukšić, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69924	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Earlier in a previous debate, counterpart Grubisic made one logical remark. He said it was supposed to be in the report that we discussed to write a parallel rather than a comparative one. The reference is fine, but I will see what my colleague Grubisic will say when he reads this report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2012 and that is my first remark, but it is really not just a technical point. I don't know, he used to say to his colleague Bubalo like we're in the European Parliament or the British Parliament. Look at the first few pages of the report. Even every chapter of that report is written in English, in the text is the first English name and in the bracket is possibly Croatian name. I mean forgive that in no Parliament in Europe that report would come to the benches of parliamentarians, not once. I think the Croatian language should be respected. And I don't like this report. We used to always say good is a report but practice is bad and just a report as it's structured, I don't like the report, it's not transparent, there's no analysis. There's a number of activities. However, the report is not only activities, meetings with someone, seminars, but I am interested in the situation in this area, when I read this report I cannot get insight into such a situation or I can get those who are very, very informed. Let's just say when I read Gong's report on that same matter that on the 50.60-page page, I got a very clear review. So that's the basic remark on the report itself. There is a report that also encourages thinking. Personal data protection, as they say, the agency has gained its publicity. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in 2012 was doing an extremely large job, we can say it is still moving and here in the report 8 right to access information, then there was no Commissioner for Information. She was doing all these work agencies. We'll discuss the information commissioner's rule later today. What we know as Croatian citizens about the agency, before Mr. Bubulo spoke about that he did not know and that even the police did not refer him to the work of the personal data protection agency. When we discussed a number of agencies earlier, it should be said that this is one of the most important agencies, that this agency certainly makes sense because access to information, I am now talking about 2012 so that we do not forget what was in the jurisdiction exclusively of the Personal Data Protection Agency. It should be said that it was a basic tool to prevent corruption at all levels from the highest level to the lowest level. And if we see how much the Agency's intervention has been then we can really say that the results are not modest but modest. They're better than the previous years. What Mr. Bubalo said, let's get into the media. The main thing that the agency should do and what should be done by the information commissioner taking over a large part of the agency's work is to be at the service of the citizens and the institutions of Croatia. In 2012, the Agency received a total of 187 rights protection requests or complaints from citizens and third parties. Imagine it's only a tenth, it's not even a thousand of what happens to citizens when it comes to protecting the law. simply citizens do not know that they have one of the 150 agencies, an agency that protects their rights, which also protects their rights and also does not know and will not know except drinking our parliamentary debates that are no longer on TV and which transmits the fourth programme of HRT and its ratings is below 1% and that is what the Croatian Parliament has allowed as a representative of the owners to work as illegal in Partisans 43. Every government is fighting for the fact that as soon as there's a small view of the Assembly's session, and it's known for what reasons, but I won't do too much, Mr Batinic is here, to get out of the context of the debate so as not to be warned. So, as I said to the agency in 2012 it is very important to prevent corruption, that the agency, its activity, is a fundamental tool for preventing corruption. However, how many people know about this tool? How many citizens of the Republic of Croatia know what its right to information is, what everything should be available to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, where this should be available, how it is served, can serve that information. It was the agency's mission in 2012. During the reporting period, the Agency's supervisory activity was divided into direct and indirect controls. During 2012, a total of 434 non-administrative cases and 63 administrative cases were recorded. When we compare this with the practice of EU countries or our first Slovenian neighbours, then we will see that we are very much behind. You must know that in Slovenia, one of the most prominent institutions, the institution that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia believe, the institution they are complaining about, the institution they rightly expect to protect them from is exactly the Commissioner for Information, i.e. 2012 Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. In our case, it is not because the vast majority of citizens do not know about the existence of the agency, the vast majority do not know what rights it has and the vast majority of citizens could certainly not, on the basis of this report, which I also believe on the Internet, conclude what all the agencies were doing in 2012 and what the rights of citizens guaranteeing Croatian laws. Progress is obvious for Croatian institutions, whether they are state-level institutions or local government institutions. No more in recent years, 2013 was probably much better and what we know and the knowledge we have is some research done and we came up with that data. There are no more of those under quotes from local sheriffs who reject journalists, who reject citizens, there are no more institutions that continue all their decisions on the websites. People are still struggling with contracts, with the knowledge of contracts that the state or local institutions have agreed with, because you know why, that's why, the money, there are percentages and there's always someone who can ask the awkward question, why your cousin worked at the firehouse and it didn't go to a public tender. This information is not only at local level but also kept at national level as a snake's feet. Such an analysis with data, with instructions that all citizens have to ask, is precisely necessary from the Agency or in the future of the Commissioner for Information and as regards the protection of citizens' privacy, is also regulated by law, moving but small, too small and basic in the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency is how to get into the media, how to get close to citizens who will certainly send more complaints to the address when they find out about the address and when they find out about the activity of that agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69925	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69926	I don't know how to speak to you about that first sentence you mentioned me in. So I don't know how to ask you to talk to me or what I would say to this vastly excessive use of English in this material. What would I say? Notting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69927	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69928	Here in the Croatian Parliament we have several times, several times I have warned many parliamentary MPs have warned about it and one colleague here warns against speaking nicely in Croatian, no articles are allowed to be written about it. So it is absolutely safe to discuss the level and the debate, but also the level of literacy, or the level of Croatian language used in official reports, and when these official reports are submitted here to the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69929	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69930	Thank you very much. Namely, there have been many words about English, but we have our beautiful Croatian and we will certainly only use my suggestions about the future report to keep everything in Croatian. But what I wanted to say when I had a problem with the facebook I was talking about, when I came to the police to report it then they told me to those 4 addresses outside of Croatia to send a request, but they did not warn me to send a request to the Personal Data Protection Agency. I would ask the question how many people in Croatia have asked for protection when we talk about facebook but also when we talk about other problems that arise especially with the arrival of information technologies? And I think the facebook is very important right now. I also showed you earlier when we were talking about the facebook that it was written in various newspapers from the morning to all the other media exactly the problem I had and where I wanted to highlight it. But no one from the agency has ever expressed a desire to provide any kind of help. So when the police tell you to send a request not to Croatia but to America, send three more addresses, then we have to ask ourselves if we need an agency like this at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69931	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69932	These questions that you have asked with a fake facebook profile will certainly take place in the future and should now be dealt with by the Commissioner for Information. But the problem is that an important institution... I said in Slovenia it certainly has a great reputation was actually established if you look at how much money it received forms for. With the money she received for her activity in 2014, 2015, 2016, it seems she will not be able to employ at least four, five people needed for the work of that agency, and I'm afraid that when there's a report for 2014 next year that there will be thin results that won't be nearly any good results because she can't be a Commissioner or too many employees, and we said that there are thousands in 150 agencies, councils and all other hard ones in most cases of paravaldain bodies, there... and here we're talking about one of the anti-corruption tools being charmed and I think it's a million and 300 thousand kuna allocated to that office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69933	Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69934	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, my colleague Vuksic, in the part where you were saying this is Chapter 8 of the right to access information, informing citizens, just interpreting the law and mentioning the functioning of this institute at the levels of local self-government. I agree entirely on that theme you said. Do the citizens have, are they sufficiently informed about this law itself? Are they sufficiently informed about the work of the agency itself? However, you have probably noticed on that page a total of 709 complaints, 480, 160 speeches, etc. a 319 complaints are 66% due to a failure by the public authority to decide on the applicant's request within the prescribed deadlines. The silence of the administration. It's a worrying piece of information. Is this about the lack of education of officials? Do I say, in public bodies, especially at the level of local units, cities and municipalities of smaller towns, more municipalities, and especially if it coincides with part of the report that says there were only 8 controls in local and regional self-government units? My thinking is that maybe this year should be a year of local education because I think local self-government units are the first and basic contact for citizens to get quality and qualified information. And I wish it could be meant by the State Audit trail that the Agency also directs its forces towards seeing at the level of the unit of local and regional self-government teamwork, quality and qualifications of the people who run that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69935	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69936	Dear counterpart Batinic, we agree essentially. When I talked about it, it was even more devastating before. In 2003, we started working on that field. In previous years, ten years ago, five years ago, local public business administration units were advertised for any right of citizens to information. Today it's much better but not enough. And I completely agree, yes, education should be educated. Citizens need to know what information they can get from a public company, which information must be given to them by the Office of Mayors, mayors, mayors, which they can get because it makes life easier for them in the community, precisely because they pay taxes. But you know yourself, you've done these jobs, you know how many citizens are talking and how unprepared they are even if they speak they don't know which tools are at their disposal. It is certainly not only the agency's fault, that it is the agency that is making efforts, that there are professionals in the agency, but the agency is not teamed. That wall of silence in the agency needs to be breached, there should be enough money, or someone needs to agree with HRT, which is public television that has to make such information or make some shows that will help citizens, which will be, and that's exactly the connection, that bond. HRT is not to broadcast soaps and is not only to compete with RTL and New TV ratings and to perform that function that is not prescribed by law, HRT is to be helped right now. Therefore, this is not, as far as the report itself is concerned, my criticism of what the report looks like, but I know the work of the agency, the agency from before the agencies is working, trying, however, with insufficient number of people, insufficient funds and this wall of silence that is very large in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69937	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Banic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69938	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is independent, independent in its activities, but also responsible for the Croatian Assembly in the protection of two extremely important human rights. It is one right to guarantee every citizen the security and confidentiality of personal data and that, without the consent of the citizens, his personal data cannot either be collected or processed, and that this protection and security is determined and determined by law, as well as by the supervision of the activities of the information services in the state. The second right is also constitutional, which protects this agency is the right to access information. The right to access information owned by public authorities shall be guaranteed. The restrictions on access to information must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case and necessary in a free and democratic society, and prescribed by law. In 2012, the Agency continued its international cooperation with the countries of the European Union and other countries, in particular the countries in the field of SEE Europe and the region. The Commission also cooperated with state and public authorities in the light of the regulation and law and opinion-making and thus strengthened its advisory and supervisory role. There was also the Leonardo DaVinci project aimed at conducting research to discover the degree of knowledge about the protection of personal data and the right to privacy by children and youth. A survey was conducted among children about the perception of data protection and the privacy of children and young people using the Internet, but a partner from Hungary withdrew from the project and the praiseworthy project had to be shut down. As I mentioned at the outset, the agency is responsible for protecting two human rights. If we go to law that guarantees the safety and secrecy of the data first of all, I would refer to the children. I believe that we all agree that it is important to educate children about the importance of personal data and the importance of privacy. Of course, not only is the agency’s contribution expected, but there is a very important role for parents, especially schools. We have also discussed here many times the development of technology, broadband and the dangers that often come out of it. Social networks become a nursery for taking, or stealing, other people's data and photographs, and children are often threatened because of ignorance, which is because of curiosity. When I mention social networks, I want to remind again of the story from Vinkovac where a Facebook group is launched that is organized so that private pictures of girls are posted on the wall of the group, who are mocked and insulted by the users. Also, the question arises who cares about the protection of children and minors' data in the media. Newspapers and portals are full of data on child neglect and child abuse. It is recommended that everyone, most young, or parents teach children not to contact strangers, not to share their private content with the entire online community and remember, that once they publish something on the Internet, it remains forever recorded. However, it is not only children who face the fact that their personal data are often used. Many citizens face the abuse of personal data on a daily basis. For example, there are certainly others among us who have had, for example, a phone call from the insurance company and when they offer insurance for a car, they point out that our registration expires in, say, two or three days. Now, of course, the question is, how did they get that information? Where did they get that information? A total of 187 rights protection applications were submitted in Croatia during 2012, i.e. complaints from citizens and third parties, which is more than 82 requests last year. From this, a large number of complaints related to the public publication of personal data on the website of the company directory.hr. Personal data 43,000 citizens of business owners who reveal the OIB, ID number, birth date and address were found at the end of February of last year on the directory page.hr. After several complaints, the company withdrew the data, but the problem is in this case that the directory could only be punished if one of the citizens reported it to the police. As regards the second right, the right to access information and the very name of the agency itself, it is not clear that the Agency is also concerned about the protection of the right to access information. It should be more visible and clearer that the Agency includes and this important constitutionally guaranteed right. We see through the report that during 2012, the agency received 709 items, which is an increase of as much as 127 compared to 2011. Of the total of 709 cases, there were as many as 480 complaints, of which 161 complaints referred to a decision to refuse access to information, and 319 for failing to decide by the public authority on the applicant's request within the prescribed deadlines, so-called The silence of the administration. Furthermore, 99 written questions by the public authority or other natural or legal persons, 101 of the provision concerned the work of the public authority body and 16 other submissions relating to other communication with the public authority or parties. The majority of complaints referred to requirements addressed to units of local and regional self-government, ministries, judicial bodies, associations and companies. The question is what means a significant increase in complaints about the Law on the right to access information from year to year. Does this mean poor supervision or lack of education of the Personal Data Protection Agency? I wonder how the information officers do it. Croatian legislation on the protection of personal data is in line with international conventions and EU legislation. However, what is particularly important to pay attention to in further work is to introduce citizens specifically to the scope of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which certainly requires greater supervision. During 2012, the Agency conducted seminars, education and workshops for its targeted activities in order to strengthen awareness of the need to protect personal data as well as the right to access information. However, the Croatian public is not sufficiently familiar with these areas, and it is necessary to continue activities in this direction because citizens must be educated on the protection of personal data, i.e. they need to be given information to whom to contact for the protection of their personal data and which procedures and mechanisms are available for their protection. And finally, I find it necessary to point out one fact about the Agency's work, which is that since mid-June last year, there has been no director. We know that the previous director was relieved of his duties on a personal request because he became mayor of a city. But more than eight months have passed since then. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data whose purpose is to ensure the protection of personal data and private life of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and the right to access information still does not have a new director.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69939	Thank you. Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69940	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Banic, you have said that one of the fundamental tasks of this Agency is the protection of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this is obviously so, in addition to Croatian laws, including the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantee the right of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to protect personal data. However, I would like to warn of a case which is obviously a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Agency has practically agreed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry of Croatian Defence make a precedent and publish the Register of Croatian defenders with personal data of 500,000 Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. It is a precedent, because no country has ever done so far, and I fear that no one will ever make such a precedent after Croatia because every country is interested not only in protecting its citizens and their personal data but also in some data that are very important to the security of the country. I am sure that here the Agency and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have made a difficult failure, which I hope the River will say very quickly also by the Constitutional Court. So, I'd say the Agency didn't prove to be what it should be and what the law says it's an independent agency. It is not independent but highly dependent on the influence of politics, and this example I set is an obvious example that the Agency is simply not independent in its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69941	Thank you. Replication response, Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69942	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Ivić, very short. I must tell you that I was surprised when the Agency gave the green light to publish the Croatian Defence Register. Since I worked alone at the Croatian Defence Ministry, there were more initiatives than individuals and some associations to publish the Croatian Defence Register. But then the ministry always acted so that we sent the Agency an inquiry and asked if the Croatian Defence Office could be published if possible. Each time the same answer came from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which was that it could not be without the consent of each individual listed in the Croatian Defence Register, more specifically without every Croatian defender. So in this case, I fully agree with you that the Agency has made a difficult failure, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69943	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69944	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In the first part of your debate, you were really talking about a big problem, which is the problem of violence, Internet violence among children. So this is about child molesters among children. But what's the worst violence is pedophilia. I am sure that one day the Law on the Prevention of Internet Violence will be initiated, of course, in which it could be legal and punishable and that violence especially against children, but of course there is such violence among adults. In part two, you were talking about the protection of personal data and I agree with you, I don't think there's any protection of personal data. Because today if someone, tonight at 9:00, can call you and offer you a set of knives and I don't know what out of pure peace is causing you nothing, and I don't know where your phone number comes from, so we have it. You're calling late. It doesn't matter. We're doing it till 10:00. It's just inadmissible. Let's say we have our OIBs, JMBG. Coming to some institutions, we are obliged to give them either the OIB or that JMBG. And now I'm not clear today it's on the Internet, so through that name and last name, one of them, one of the offers you can get practically a lot of information. However, also some HEP-type institutions and I don't know what they're sending written enquiries again that we're delivering our OIB or your unique birth number. So now I don't understand how that if they send bills, they can't take that OIB, they're simply spending paper and time, money and everything else, completely immaterially, and they're simply using that OIB for all possible and kind purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69945	Reply to the replica Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69946	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade twilight, it's a good thing you're a little bit too, so to speak, deepening this part of the violence on the Internet. Here's today's Safer Internet Day, and I'm going to take the opportunity to say some more information about social networks and violence. Today in Croatia 93% of children aged 11 to 18 have a Facebook profile, even two of the three children before they turn 13 to their Facebook profile even though we know they shouldn't. Almost 50% of children in Croatia review their Facebook status during their classes. Each fifth child several times or often received offensive messages or comments via Facebook. Every other child has experienced it at least once. 18% of children say they might agree to meet with an unknown person they met on the Internet while 8% of children find themselves in such a situation and go to a meeting only. 23.8% of children find it fun to send anonymous disturbing messages. Indeed, violence on the Internet is a really big problem, and I think we should all deal with this issue. When it comes to the use of personal data, I have to say that there's a lot of illogicality. You're the one who listed it, for example. Hep, you've given all the data and they're looking for you again, and let's just say that we can talk about banks. When we get to the bank, we want to open our own account, give some of our data so we can open the account, not to open us up later, for example. I'm not sure how much of a war, a cheaper pill, and stuff like that. So these are all the questions the agency should deal with, but first of all, they should get to know the citizens better about it and know who they can address because we've already heard here in the debates that people don't even know who they're calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69947	On behalf of SDP representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69948	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Director, colleagues and colleagues. According to the clear definition of a legal person with public authority who independently and independently conducts surveillance tasks in the field of the protection of personal data. The basic functions of the Agency as an independent body relate to the protection of the personal data of citizens and their right to access information. It can be said that the agency is acting on the basis of a very important premise, which is to strengthen citizens' awareness of the existence of human right to privacy and the various possibilities of its protection. According to the 2012 report on the work of the Agency and as recommended by the Assembly on the 2011 Work Report, we can conclude that the Agency has made significant progress in its work and has met national requirements on the protection of personal data, the education of the civil and government sectors and targeted groups of citizens, particularly the most vulnerable social groups of children and young people. The basic legal regulation which determines the work of the Agency is the Personal Data Protection Act which enables the Agency to monitor the protection of personal data, then the possibility of indicating the observed abuses of personal data collection, keeping the central register of the personal data collection, giving opinions, recommendations and indications on the possibility of further improving the personal data protection system. The AZOP's work has been targeted at national and transnational levels, so the agency has therefore co-operated with the public sector more precisely with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where co-operation referred to very important issues such as the development of a Schengen action plan and the measures that the Republic of Croatia will have to implement in order to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis. The agency was also very active at national level, co-operated with several ministries, I think of the Ministry of Administration, Internal Affairs, defenders, pension work and pension systems, finances and other working bodies such as HZZ and HZZ. The AZOP is a multi-purpose agency with a wide range of activities related to various aspects of the lives of citizens and for these reasons, the agency has sought to improve and strengthen public relations through various workshops, seminars and education for the private and public sector, as well as targeted age groups. What is real progress in terms of the second important part of the agency is the implementation of a workshop on the right to access information where participants were representatives of public authorities bodies, information officers and businessmen where more than 800 information officers were educated. In a further approach to the public, the agency worked to adapt and refresh its website, then to bring the whole system closer to the public as well as to its own employees. The greatest progress has been made by introducing an information security management system or by introducing an information security system precisely because of activities carried out in the area of strengthening public awareness of the need to protect privacy and the right to access information. The Agency has drawn the attention of citizens, which ultimately resulted in an increased number of requests for the protection of personal data and rights arising from these requirements. What can be negatively tailored or refers to specialised activities of the Agency relating to the conduct of controls on the legality of the processing of personal data and the taking of measures to protect sectors and levels of government national and local, which may not be known to the general public to that extent. For example, the agency is responsible for overseeing the sector of the economy, trade, culture, health care and social care where the emphasis must be placed on older and powerless people who are not familiar or very little know about the new information technologies and advantages and disadvantages that these technologies bring. This is an area where further progress can be made in the development of the AZOP system and activities. The report also shows that the Agency has co-operated with state and public authorities, legal entities in such a way as to give opinions, indications, reports on activities carried out at national level and related to the supranational level through the implementation of EU projects. The Agency has shown through its work that the advisory and supervisory body which, according to all standards, should be inescapable in the Republic of Croatia. This report concludes that the Agency has made significant shifts in 2012 in all areas of work with the aim of responsible behaviour of compliance with legal obligations due to legal and moral imperatives, protection and respect for other people's privacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69949	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Kolega Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69950	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected deputy director, fellow Members and fellow MPs. First of all, I can point out that the 2012 report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is, in the opinion of the HNS Club, a Liberal Democrats exhaustively and comprehensively and will support it as well. What is defined in this report is the task of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data that it is an independent supervisory body with public authority, has legal personality and what is most important for its work corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, so we are also discussing this report here. Of course, the protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia began with the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data in 2003. I would particularly like to point out that one of the Agency's basic tasks as well as the objectives of the strategic plan is to strengthen citizens' awareness of human rights and the right to privacy, which must become a generally accepted principle of work for all who collect and process and transfer personal data. With this, one of the things that may be in conflict with each other is that we all want to be an open society, a democratic society, and we really want to have access to all the information and know everything. So on the one hand, we accept the possibility of having privacy and the principle that these personal data are being protected, and at the same time we want all the data we have to be available as widely as possible. There indeed in this part the Agency's tasks are quite responsible and demanding. So the agency stated in its report the content of its action to point out that part in particular. First of all, it is part of the legislative framework and it includes a whole series of systems, regulations that are either in the draft phase or are adopted. It is also the content of its action in EU accession activities. Most often this was developed with chapter 23 of the judiciary. Of course, international activities are important, they are related to all international agreements and agreements concerning the Republic of Croatia with the EU. In particular, they would mention the realisation and implementation of projects, primarily projects from EU funds, and of all these projects, I would especially mention two, this is the IPARD 2007 project, which primarily serves to strengthen the capacity of the agency, the protection of personal data. It is very important that the agency and its people achieve knowledge, experience, and resources so that they can carry out this very important task. And I would especially like to mention the same project Leonardo Da Vinci called the Perception of Data Protection and the issue of privacy among children and young people using the Internet. This has already been pointed out in a number of discussions, which is the problem of the Internet, social networks, data protection, and what is known in the context of the bonding of privacy between children and youth. We hope that this survey and this implementation of this project have come to concrete conclusions and the work of the agency itself, which will, in particular, contribute to what we are all seeking, and this is to ensure that our children and young people are protected by this part of privacy protection. Of course, there is also important cooperation with all other state bodies, public administration bodies, legal entities, agencies and lists that have been listed over 30 of these agencies and institutions that are very important. What is also pointed out is that the Agency's task of giving its opinion on the rules most often on draft laws, and we want these laws to be, above all, sustainable and enforceable in the sense they are intended for. Of course, the right to access information which is defined that during 2012 the agency received 709 items, which is an increase of 127% compared to 2011. I might wish this report had been tried one analysis, which is why this is in two, three years as much as we're doing that analysis so much of the requirements over a few years. And what is most important, which I would particularly point out, is that the largest number of complaints made refers to the requirements addressed to units of local and regional self-government, ministries, judicial bodies, associations and companies, and perhaps in that part, may come out certain experiences as... that we've really had a rather large demand for access to information lately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now what's the problem? Is it now suddenly a problem in this work that our citizens are much more educated, more informed, aware and want access to information? Is it possible that local units have first and foremost opened up their work and activities towards their citizens, and also citizens see that such information can be obtained, they want to get and, at the same time, the information they receive wants to be very high-quality in the development of the local community itself? Or maybe it's something else. In that part of what I would like to say is that around the complaints concerning local (area) units of regional self-government, I would not say so much that, above all, the context of the silence of the administration is because we have to look at one and the kind of possibility and the very crossing of information and the bringing of information that is so much increase in local self-government units, the request for information or for information collection, and it has the same number of employees who are very concerned with providing information. This ultimately speaks of the Law on Access to Information, then we can also say what we called before here are several sessions in the Assembly that we have a lot of municipalities and cities, on which the municipalities that have fewer employees and there is really hard to have a person who will quality you, in time be able to give that information and give it. Of course, and there's a 15-day deadline since that information has to be given because believe it when you have, and that happens in some way, a series of requests for certain information, that kind of thing is in that part and difficult to realize. What is most important, and this is what the agency that has highlighted is doing very well here, these are public relations, must be organised through seminars, education, workshops, the need to strengthen awareness is the need to protect personal data and the right to access information, and it is particularly an emphasis, as we have already pointed out here in the debate, on activities that contribute to better data protection of children and young people in the protection of their privacy, especially when it comes to internet and social networks. And we mentioned some activities that are highly respected globally, they perceive that we have even a day and that's February 5th, a day of safer Internet, and that's all the things that we like to put together bricks in sequence. To point out once again, it is important that all of this contributes to better data protection for children and young people. Of course, what we would like to point out is that the supervision carried out during 2012 where 434 irregular cases were recorded, 63 administrative cases, and during 2012, a total of 322 controls were carried out and this was classified by sectors, health sector, social care, state administration, local and regional self-government, also the education sector, telecommunications of the financial sector. And personally on all controls and controls whether the information and data collected is in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. Now that we're watching a little bit, all these controls that have been carried out, and indeed the sectors are quite wide, branch out, then we see that by the competent administrative court seven verdicts have been passed, and that the agency has initiated four criminal proceedings and two criminal proceedings, then we can generally conclude that the state of data protection is satisfactory to us, or maybe it's a question of whether it's like that or something else. Here, at the end of what we have said that we can also agree on the conclusion that in these materials the agency has kept and its budget, which is also very important that there has been no breakthrough, only there have I not seen an analysis of how many of these activities, how many of them there are employees in the agency, this should be complemented, and we can indeed agree that during this reporting period the agency has made significant shifts in all the areas of its work and activities and, in accordance with the strategic plan, the agencies have achieved the objectives and tasks of their action and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69951	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69952	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ma'am from the agency, I don't know how to define the function, Deputy Director. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and colleagues and fellow MPs. I will start with fellow Skvaric who has well detected that in this budget of the Agency for Protection, so I will start at the end, for the protection of personal data or the AZOP as we like to say it briefly. So in addition to this budget, which annually, in 2012, is about, let me cut to it, 6.5 million kuna, saves millions and 100 grand because the budget was defined to 7 million and 600, so the savings or restrictions that followed brought that realization down to 6.5 million. There's no data as much as the employee structures, no numbers or structures, so we'd like to know, so what number of people and what kind of school equipment and what else does this 6.5 million apply to? But despite this AZOP, the Personal Data Protection Agency, I will highlight what I said before when we were discussing something else. So regardless of the function, the role, the strength of our AZOP, we all live together in Big Brother. You can see how much in the press, starting with the world media and Chancellor Merkel who is therefore directly spyed on, so her electronic connection with the rest of the world is therefore spyed on by the American services, and in Croatia there is an operational technical centre of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia that links all electronic connections, links, cables of all teleoperators in the Republic, all of them, 091, 092, 095, 097, 098, 099. So all the information goes down there. Now, when we talked about the number of people who were tapped or controlled during the report by the Ministry of Interior, then Minister Ostojic himself said it was a number of about 40,000 people. 40,000 people. When you look at your phone directory, so they are electronically controlled, when you look at the directory, it's an annual report, there are no names in the phone directory of either us or any of us in Croatia less than 20 names. So now we multiply 40 thousand persons and the number of contacts that are unrealized with different other people, then you'll actually see how many are multiplying that number of electronically controlled people. So just through the operating technical centre in Zagreb. But it's not today's topic of this debate, so the Personal Data Protection Agency has, I would say, a wide range of action. It is good that, unfortunately, this is the afternoon, but it would be good to work on the promotion of AZOP in public, with citizens in a variety of ways. We can list here what AZOP did, which all the activities in 2012, were carried out, so with whom all the consultations, seminars, contracts, etc. were conducted. So here it writes, interstate agreements, cooperation in the EU to strengthen the capacity of the IPA component in 2007 I repeat as part of the program of lifelong learning Leonardo Da Vinci and English titles... /The speaker speaks English./... etc. Cooperation with the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of National Security, the Office for Human Rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Ombudsman, the Office for the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Administration, the defenders, the work and the pension system, the Customs Administration, the Ministry of Transport and so on closer. But I would say where is cooperation with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? where is represented jurisdiction, function, role and all that AZOP can do for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to help them in these things about which it writes here? That's what's missing a little bit, so I think, that's my impression of it all. That as various state agencies are advertised, state-owned companies, so here's HEP we now have some HEPI commercial, so why don't we and our state-run Personal Data Protection Agency advertised that it can do something about stealing Facebook profiles. Well, I didn't know I could report it. Here's my colleague Bubalo. The police didn't even refer him to you. And she could tell him, go find the Personal Data Protection Agency, and then you can go to America to the seat to Zukenberg, if you need, what's the name of the Facebook owner, or else the big donor I see from yesterday, a billion dollars he donated, so he can donate more but there he is. So the right to access information is classified here in several categories in several areas of life and it's beautifully written. It refers to complaints, and then we have an increase in these appeal cases from 2010 where there were 80 to 2012 where 480 complaints. What are those complaints about? They relate to the fact that 161 refers to or a third of the solution to the refusal of the information request. So if the citizens look for information and are rejected, then the information they are looking for and also written not only by oral means but also by written means, then they can seek the intervention of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The second part and the largest part 2/3 or 319 complaints refer to the silence of the administration. So there's no response from the administration to the individual's request, so silence. Neither to answer nor to that legally established deadline on any general administrative procedure, etc. She remains the silence that may actually be the worst. This is one side of the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency. I'd like to ask the director of the agency, for example. it is appropriate, instead of the Tax Administration, to impose tax inspections through taxpayers on taxpayers, so it does its job to simply as they like to say the pillar of shame, to publish the names and last names of all taxpayers by county and by the level of tax debt. I know the law has changed and tax debt is no longer a secret, that's correct. But they should be selective. Therefore, not all taxpayers remained liable for the same reason or for the reason that they did not want to pay the tax. If you have a craftsman who delivered the goods and didn't charge the goods, he can't charge the goods, the debtor won't pay the goods or not pay them in a regular period, then he has to pay the tax, then he comes to the pillar of shame not with his guilt. And now we've published the names of all taxpayers on our IRS. Righteous or unfair. Here's President Josipovic swears to justice, to a new justice pardon, but I think there are things that are not so fair, although I am that tax debt should be paid and must be paid. In that way, the bank could at least publish all those who are in a down-and-a-bonded manner in its internal record. Same way, same everything why wouldn't you? So is that okay? It's not okay. We're in violation of the Personal Data Protection Act. Now you've said there's another side, which is very interesting, which is the use of Internet and social networks in which abuses can occur and where abuses are very common. So you said that there was in collaboration with the MUP in English you said red arrows, arrows is Croatian word, it's not a button, not a button, not a red button so, yes, yes, it's quite original. So I'm wondering again is there anyone else besides this Personal Data Protection Agency? Who actually writes it or what way can underage children get into Facebook when they're 11 years old? I'm not defending anyone who uses Facebook for the purpose of being a colleague of the twilight pedophilia or I don't know what. We have an article on the newsstand saying that children under 18 don't sell alcohol, you can't get alcohol. But how is it with ease even though there is a regulation that enrolls children on Facebook and on other social networks without any problems? I'm not going to repeat the cases in which you've had experience as an agency because it says here in the text how many of those online networks used to be and how many abuses were actually. Or here, for example. The other night about 1 hour, after I went to bed late, I found on one of our portals a great report that a Croatian government official is divorcing a woman because she has a mistress in Rijeka, etc. In the morning, the news was no longer on the portal, no more in the morning, no more on any more portals. It doesn't matter, I won't speak a name at all because it's not right, we have personal data protection. Hence, this phenomenon and its occurrence are interesting. You may know, you may have received a complaint from that person, and in connection with the protection of personal data, it was probably downloaded from that portal and a very read portal on which it was published. It's a very interesting thing. I mean, I was surprised, too, but it wasn't clear to me, but this morning when I wanted to tell a friend, see what it says on the portal, it's nowhere, it can't be found anymore, almost, taken down. So such things as happened to my friend and to my party colleague Bubal that someone opened a fake profile in his name and that he so falsely represented it was really, it wasn't a crime, it was a crime. It's a crime and it's one of the most serious crimes because in such internet communication, there's a lot of different things that can be said, said and said, and that whoever is misrepresented is not involved in it at all. It's terrible, it leads people astray, the whole public is led astray, the state is led astray. A very, very criminal act. I don't think our own legislation has worked out very well, but that's what happens, and it's gonna be hard for us nowadays to get such widespread, wide-ranging Internet communications and that broadband Internet to prevent it, and in the end it seems to me that this kind of thing is also supported by a world power or a police officer who controls all the Internet communications in the world. I don't know what their hardware is, how much we only communicate in Croatia via the Internet, emails and I don't know what not. But there are machines like that, I'd say Croatian devices. We won't speak English anymore. In addition to this, I am now going back to this last page that writes the financial account of the agency itself, which is said to be commended, given that 1/7, 1/6, almost 14% decreased realisation in 2012 compared to the projected budget for 2012. We will accept the report as a club of representatives of the HDSSB, but I would like somehow to be even stronger in the public knowledge of the role, function and opportunities provided by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data so that, in what way, I think you may have an idea and that perhaps it is not problematic by means of the media, by means of a message, by Croatian texts, whether electronic or read, to publish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69953	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69954	Thank you. Well, colleague, you've brought out these appeal proceedings which, given that the Office of the Information Commissioners is being formed, it seems to me that actually the work of the Commissioner for Information will, to a large extent, close these cases and, in particular, the right to access information, to answer to public bodies and so forth. So I don't think in that part of it, I don't even know how long it's going to stay for the activity of this AZOP, and I have to admit that I would be thinking about whether in this economic crisis at all, this body is necessarily or perhaps some small scale as an office. That's another 6.5 million kuna on the annual level. As simple as the previous regulatory body we mentioned also about the railway, I think if we're going to discuss what is necessary for this country at the time of the recession, then I think that such agencies and even their necessity should talk to the extent to which it exists today. You also mentioned OTC and its activity. I don't think there should be too much to worry about at all because the coverage of the communication system in all possible forms is so much from some of the sources that you mentioned, that then OTC's activity is those tens of thousands of numbers that they possibly control according to the State's Attorney's guidance is really negligible compared to the total range of surveillance of communications that are covered anyway. And when it comes to Facebook and social networks and things like that, I think it's a tribute that just once we live in, in which absolutely no one can control. I don't see how this agency or anyone could determine whether a child is 13 years old or younger than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69955	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69956	Thank you very much. A colleague of Djurovic, yes, 2.5 million railway agencies, to cut short, 6.5 million AZOP, and now a position of Commissioner for Information has been established. Well, maybe it wouldn't be bad if Mr. Hajdash-Doncic puts all those agencies together, maybe even an information commissioner. They don't, ma'am. It's just V.D. So let's put it together and cut the cost at least a little bit in the state. As for the Operations Technical Center and to say the American Technical Operations Centre, it's actually two big brothers, so we have not only one but we live in a double-large brown: domestic and foreign. So we can't get away from it, we live in a world like that. When someone's gonna use that information, it's hard. Here's a colleague of the Bugs caught a chica Chuck on a fake Facebook profile, someone else caught him breaking up with a woman, etc. Very strange ways are God's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69957	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69958	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I would agree with most of your debate. Of course it's a bit of a joke, a little bit of a joke. You mentioned the big girl, so it was to be expected that you would say that this agency could be a big mother, that she oversees the one who does all this and shouldn't do everything in the interest of naturally protecting personal data. And I think in your part of the speech I missed her, I missed one essentially sentence or conclusion maybe, because you commended the work and opinions and all these solutions and the progress of the Agency. But it seems to me that there is one key thing missing, which is that the Agency has not given a review of the state and the assessment of the state of data protection. She gave general information, and we didn't actually get what they needed from them because the other one doesn't do it, especially according to the Croatian Parliament, which is to give us a real state. They don't have to compare to maybe other countries, other agencies. But I get a real state based analysis, based on a grudge, and I'm definitely not going to say a clue, but thinking about what and how and how. Because when we look at an increase of 180%, it might be that the condition is worse, and it might be that people may be more informed or less informed. If it were a reduction, they would say it's ideal, and we're all aware, and that's what you mentioned to other speakers about the protection of personal data and publication both via the Internet and of course by certain companies, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69959	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69960	Thank you very much, colleague Gjurkovic, for trying to help, so my debate. You have suggestions for my hearing. I'll consider it on the next report in a year. But yes, I accept the fact that it would be good to compare the work and results of similar agencies in other European countries, although this is a report for Croatia. But it wouldn't be bad, even though I'm saying this agency is relatively young with us. And here's this increase in the number of complaints I've been talking about or that the state-owned unit of local, regional self-government isn't doing their job well enough to provide information or something else. Or indeed the number of complaints is so high that we have these results. About AZOP being a big mom, that's fine. There's a Big Mom pizza place in Slavonski Brod, so we can talk about it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69961	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy director of the agency. So here we are today discussing the report of one of the agencies operating in the Republic of Croatia. But what sets this agency apart from others is to take care of the protection of personal data, the issues that are being touched, so not indirectly, but directly to every citizen of this country. But it also deals with important human rights guaranteed and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We have heard a lot in the debates before about how this Agency deals and the right to access information, but as far as I know, that jurisdiction is excluded from the Agency, or the Agency is dealing with exactly what the name says, and that is protection of personal data, so I think that's very important for the highlighted. The Agency, therefore under the Personal Data Protection Act, monitors the implementation of the protection of those mentioned, indicates the observed abuses of the collection of those data, resolves the requirements for determining the infringement of the right, leads the central register, etc. So, through the debate, we heard what all of the agency's powers are prescribed by law. Among other individual obligations and requirements for the Agency's conduct, the international agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia with international organisations or individual countries such as Eurojust, Europol, Interpol and many others are based on international agreements. So if we're asking, we're questioning the existence of this agency, I'd say it's justified precisely because of these things, and precisely because of the standards imposed on us and only EU membership, and modern standards for the protection of personal data. Security on the Internet is something we could talk about how the English say until the cows come home, so for a very long time. And Internet security is something that's a relatively new concept, a new concept in terms of chronology. Although the concept of which has been written a lot lately. I can agree with colleagues and colleagues who have talked a lot about protecting vulnerable groups of society on the Internet, so first of all, children. But we also need to be aware of one fact, which is when you open a Facebook profile, so when you access that social network, you are subject to the conditions of use of that same network. And these same conditions say that everything you publish on the social network becomes public good. So, you can't after you posted a photo or after you published a certain text or you can't say it, "Puj dot doesn't count," I'll forget it now. You can take it off the profile, but if someone recorded it, so it is not subject to prosecution or you willingly gave up that information. So she's no longer personal but she's become public. A whole other pair of gloves is a fake representation. As counterpart Grubisic said, this falls within the sphere of criminal or criminal offences. I myself had situations where I was on the Internet, or my friends were telling me that someone was falsely representing himself on my behalf. In the end, I gave up chasing those people. That's thanks to God in time and stopped. But I think that all public figures, just a little bit more public-recognizable people, can be said by quotes to raise this problem. So this is a problem that will definitely have to be addressed and which even more advanced democracies than Croatia have failed to fully reach. We've heard a lot about listening. Here we have today had a good debate on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I think Croatia could enter the Guinness Book of Records by the number of people who think they were tapped. So it gets the impression that everyone thinks they're being tapped. If we go purely statistical and assume that there are 4.5 million people in Croatia, there is something less, but let's say now that we're also listening to 40,000 citizens, that's 0.8%. We're not all that interesting to the agencies, so it means security or police to be tapped. Speaking in general about the report and considering the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in 2012, and taking into account the recommendations made by the Croatian Parliament in the previous debate, so by discussing the work of the Agency for 2011 it is clear by me that the Agency has made significant progress in its work. What I would particularly like to point out is that the agency has taken, or adopted, some of the recommendations that came out of this debate, I hope so now. So, according to the recommendations resulting from the debate on the report, the agency has made an effort and opened it to the media and the public. In its participation in radio and TV shows, it has acted to create the Agency's visibility. However, I need to draw attention to a serious problem again. When we talk about defence reports in the Republic of Croatia, then too often, the most common objection to them is, in fact, media invisibility, that people don't even know what a public defender or some resolute lawyer, let's just say, attorney for children, let alone that they know what that lawyer is doing. It is often difficult to explain to people that the Ombudsman cannot interfere in court proceedings, cannot alter the powers of judgments and so on. I think the agency is in a very similar position. So, agency leadership, agency management, we as a Parliament and politicians can try to get some visibility and some publicity, but unfortunately until the agency as such is interesting to the media, the editorial policy of certain media, I don't think it's going to produce any greater results. For example, I've also been listed by the attorney general, so the attorney general, for example, in the last year, I've forgotten the exact numbers, don't hold me by my word, but she's had, like, 20 steps, none of which has been passed on in the breaking news, in prime terms, so except for some cartoon, possibly in the media, no one could get the information, at all hear that the attorney general exists. The agency also conducted seminars and education for the target public in 2012. Educations are much more important to me, and I sometimes get bored by myself by saying that education and prevention are actually the key to solving every problem, and here. So I believe that both students through the teaching of information and other subjects should be educated on the dangers of sharing information, free sharing of information on the Internet, among other things that we have already talked about. It is precisely these similar activities of the Agency that have affected an increased number of rights protection requests and an increased number of questions following a private breach. Therefore, during 2012, the agency received twice as many rights protection requests compared to last year, and a rise in supervisory activities was seen which was also doubled. The implementation of sectoral surveillance shall achieve better results in the implementation of personal data protection measures, as they focus on target groups of personal data collection managers. I believe it is necessary to increase the number of direct controls and under official duty, therefore, since the Agency has the authority to act at the request of the respondents, at the request of a third party or under official duty. So, perhaps this official duty should have been strengthened in the next period, of course in accordance with the Agency's staff and other capacities. So, the agency said I had made a shift in the number of questions about the protection of personal data by citizens, private persons and state bodies because the report shows that more than 600 cases were received in 2012. One problem in the data sphere, i.e. the availability of data, is in fact the classification of documents by the public administration by the designation of secrecy. It is often unnecessary to hide data and create an impression of manipulation and intransparency, although it is generally benign data. On the other hand, many local environments tend to declare certain projects, so to place a code of secrecy where there is no need for this, where transparency is really very important because it is mostly about some investment projects where public money is spent. When it comes to spending public money, I think transparency must exist, of course there are several exceptions, it is primarily national security. From the above, I conclude that the agency has made significant shifts in all areas of work, and that is why it has my personal support, I hope, and the support of colleagues and fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69963	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69964	Thank you. Here's a colleague to make a short reference to this last one. You spoke of the need for transparency in spending public money, I would remind you when you are able to read again the Law on Hydrocarbons and those provisions that are completely secretally declared by all contracts in the area that are being concluded, which you have voted for. And to something else I wanted to refer to, from that starting point of view when it comes to protection of privacy, there's a very big aspect, let's say, of information about citizens. This is through a variety of consumer cards and their access information that citizens provide neatly, and then no one has any control over them in any way and the question is how and how users of this information, which are given for a specific purpose by certain trade chains, and which have been issued by millions in the Republic of Croatia, are using the information available there. Then you have, for example, forms in banks where the form is printed to allow the bank, you sign, I don't know about the current account, and it's listed as allowing the bank at the same time, small dreams at the bottom, using your data for some purpose, and if you don't agree, you have to particularly express a disagreement with that the bank will use your data, instead of, for example, being reversed in the same patterns, but it isn't. They count that maybe out of 100 users, one will say no, I don't want my data to be because I'm opening a current account becoming a gainful use of that bank in all possible future uses, but that's how it is, it's been going on for years. We have a similar example with telecommunications operators, we have a similar example in various companies that are de facto using public data citizens in various different private marketing and God knows what late goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69965	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69966	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Djurovic agrees that this is a major problem, but what is actually the fact that citizens provide that information willingly. Like the bank, they sign it and I sign it at the bank, which is exactly what you were talking about. I didn't even know I could say I didn't want those data to be used. So, you get your own data and I'm the user of some cards you're talking about. So, and users lure themselves to that, certainly, different benefits, discounts, I believe it's familiar to everyone. But in those contracts sometimes there are, I have to admit, I haven't always been able to verify that these data are only used for the internal use of whoever gives them that information. Now we can talk again about what this means for internal use and in what sense these data can be used. And that's where you reminded me, I forgot to say facebook is an unsanitary source of market research because you actually mean to your own when you like it or don't like it, when you talk about different references to your own, when you publish statuses and stuff, you actually give an unsanitary source of what brands you like, what you like, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, where you like to go. So, facebook such information sells and they actually have the smallest income of that advertising. This particular market research is actually and we live in some way in a big brother, so it's like the one from Orwell in 1984, but we agreed to it ourselves. That's what might be most critical of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69967	We are continuing the debate, colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69968	I thank the vice president, the esteemed deputy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's the agency's report to be noted comprehensively and in detail. A number of activities in the field of co-operation with the Government and state bodies are listed, which were therefore very intense, gave reflections on the rules further, continued to surrender international activities, participation in projects, etc. Most of it is naturally dedicated to data protection and in principle it is not possible to make any remarks. Data protection especially at the time of Internet communication and mass media is therefore an area of which, possibly, volumes and data protection under such conditions appear to be huge, perhaps some might say Sisif's work. He noted, however, not as a criticism but rather as a proposal for future work a few topics that I believe should be taken into account in the work of the agency in the future. The first report shows that the agency has made some significant efforts aimed at protecting children on the Internet, organised a number of workshops and lectures on data protection for children and young people. However, I would also like to see more detail in the report on how many children and teachers were involved in these activities or education. So, as far as it's concerned, we've been through such programs and we've gained insight into the width of prevention. It is an extremely important subject and therefore as detailed as possible. Furthermore, when we talk about the issue of data protection on the Internet, we generally ask the question of regulation of data processing, by visiting a particular website. About Internet Security, the facebook has already been talked about, but I think it should be pointed out that this special topic because on the Internet browser often when we surf, we can notice powers that are closely related to some interests and history of viewing certain content by a particular computer user. So, a number of subjects collect data on IP addresses and visit certain sites and then use these data for advertising, here may be other activities. I'm starting to think that this area is in some gray zone at least as far as I can see, that there's not enough protection in terms of such data collection. I would personally like this issue to be considered, studied in the work of the agency, and to refer to it in the next report and possibly make appropriate suggestions. In connection with this, I would also ask myself whether the owners of social networks that collect a number of information about their users have their activities regulated in accordance with Croatian laws. Because although they do not carry out their business activities in Croatia formally, de facto they collect data here from our citizens. So the data collection site is Croatia. I am afraid that the Croatian state institution, regardless of what data is actually collected in Croatia because they have neither such activity nor have enough knowledge of such activity, let alone control. So, I would point out again and the question is whether companies operating or operating their activities are subject to Croatian laws and whether they must apply the provisions of the Data Protection Act because the current situation is such that they do not seem to act at all. I don't think there's one here in the report, and I haven't heard anywhere that, say, facebook has reported that it collects certain data, that there's a manager in the database or anything else in Croatia. Although I think they even operate through a particular branch in Croatia and other social networks. As part of the issue of information security and privacy issues, the public has raised the issue of collecting data from mobile phone owners. These phones often contain applications that collect information about, or even about the owner’s movements and deliver it to individual companies. Some applications in such phones collect other information about users such as visiting also online shopping habits and there are apps that have the ability to scan even the fingerprints of users and there have been speculations in the public that data on fingerprints are being delivered to companies that have produced software. These programs, it is true, mostly contain user consent, but very often these consents are not required in Croatian and many users do not have enough knowledge of what they do if they use their devices in a certain way. Here's what I think these questions deserve the Agency's attention and I think they should be dealt with. Probably also in cooperation with other relevant European agencies, here I have not noticed in the report that this specific area was subject to the Agency's interest, I have noted this is an extremely serious area and this may be more my recommendation for future action, i.e. for future focus. And I would also join the appeal to include certain analyses of the situation in the report and then make certain recommendations accordingly. When we talk about the problem of access to information, it should be pointed out that less space has been given to that segment. It is true that this regulation, therefore regulation of the area, was set aside from the agency last year, that in 2012 it was not and I would say that the importance of the topic certainly deserves a much more detailed review. When we talk about the data presented on this subject, it should be said that, in the first instance, there is therefore a significant increase in the number of cases in as many as 127%, and since 107 cases were received, 480 of them were complaints, so it is clear that the number of complaints affected the increase in the number of cases I think it speaks of greater interest, increasing awareness of the possibility of protecting the right to access information which is good, probably expressing part of the efforts of the agencies that were in the past. But here it would be very good in this report if the structure of the complaint was a little bit more specific, as if it were given information on the structure of the solution made by these complaints. In the first row, I would like to see how many have been adopted and the acts that the bodies have therefore filed with the largest number of complaints. A large number of complaints, 66% are invested for the silence of the administration, and yet there I would like to see more detailed data and names that the bodies listed are the biggest problem in the application of the Information Access Law and refuse to give the requested information that must according to the law. Although the number of complaints against ministries and other entities is visually displayed in this graph, I think it would be good, however, that the structure of these entities is shown significantly more precisely by the names of these entities, which the rights to access information are assessed here as particularly serious, so a little more details. I repeat, it is an extremely important matter and further improvements in this area are necessary, and for improvements more detailed data is necessary, so that we know where the most scratches and where more important action is needed. The Agency, as we see from the report, is to a certain extent sub-capacitated in terms of the volume of work, and I believe that this appointed Commissioner for Information will also be able to give significant details to this segment, but it will probably also pay more attention to the nature of things. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the report, most of all, points out informably, would support it, but it should also be reiterated that it is almost impossible to make a report that would, in detail, cover all segments of this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69969	On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Director of the Agency, Mrs Dubravka Dolenc, Final Exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69970	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would also like to thank you for these constructive criticisms, praises and recommendations, and I respect the criticism that the report could have been more transparent and certainly the name of projects that were originally in English, so they could have been translated, but here we will certainly keep an eye on it in the next report, but what I would like to point out, however, is that all these projects with success have been completed and have been very useful in any case. I also appreciate the fact that the number of requests and questions could have been even higher, that statistics could have been better, so it can always be better. In this regard, I would therefore like to refer to Mr Vuksic's replica, which is that the results were still weak, and I would like to draw attention, however, that precisely regarding these statistics, means the number of requests, enquiries and controls, should be said that the same controls were carried out within the Department of Control and Appeals, which the department had in its jurisdiction to carry out administrative procedures on the grounds of the rights claims lodged. The fact is that the number of rights claims has increased significantly, so by about 78.09%. So, we must respect this fact and therefore, we really believe that the number, the number and the result of the education that the Agency has systematically implemented and that, in terms of educating citizens on the protection of personal data and the Law on the right to access to information and these educations, had a double goal, above all, awareness of citizens, was that they essentially understood their rights and the meaning and importance of privacy protection, to whom they can address, which are actually infringements, i.e. what is legal, and what is illegal processing of personal data, and on the other hand was also an education that was directed towards the leaders of the collection so that they could know what their legal obligations are under both of these laws. On the one hand, we had an increased number of requests, on the other hand within the same department being supervised, and we should take into account the fact that the agency had some difficulties above all would refer to the sub-capacitation of the agency, this is not a negligible fact, so the human factor is important, and in addition it is not negligible, the difficulties faced by the agency in 2012 due to the reduction of the budget, i.e. the expenditure on employees for some 14,000 761 kuna, whose deficit agency planned on the burden of material and capital expenditure, which really made it difficult to fulfil the obligations arising from the law. Nevertheless, despite these difficulties and insufficient number of employees and financial difficulties, some shifts have been seen, above all, to increase the number of requests, to raise the question. And in addition, what is also not negligible is that the agency has solved all these requests and queries within a period of time. So I would say that statistics still point to certain efforts and engagements of the agency, but of course we will continue to try, above all and media to further identify the institution itself and the importance of rights, but of course also in other ways. I would also like to look back at the Commissioner for Information's observation regarding the creation of fake Facebook profiles. First of all, I would like to point out that creating fake profiles on Facebook is a criminal offence within the jurisdiction of the state institutions of the MUP and the State's Attorney's Office. The Agency is not authorised, nor is the Commissioner even less, to carry out a procedure for the purpose of establishing an IP address. Unfortunately, the agency doesn't have that authority. What the agency can do and what it does absolutely maximum within its jurisdiction is to cooperate with foreign domains that some agencies do not do at all because they do not think they are competent, because, according to their interpretation that we therefore have such information and, of course, exchange experiences, they do not feel that they are territorially competent because these injuries occur elsewhere, and not on their territory. And we think that we are in charge because it's about the privacy of our citizens and we write to Facebook and Google and YouTub we make the most of our efforts to remove such harmful content. I'd also like to look back at one of the replicas about marketing and what our point is when we can't stop someone calling you at 9.10. I would agree that it is indeed possible to say a daily example of entering privacy and it is clear that it is really annoying and that it bothers you. But what I would like to point out is that the agency can't affect whether or not someone will call you because we're not gonna say Superman so that we can predict when someone will call someone. What we can do and what we do is we can respond to your demands. In other words, Article 21 itself. The Personal Data Protection Act speaks of the right of citizens to oppose such a single invasion of privacy and may oppose and specify that caller or in writing depends on how he contacts him, that he does not want to receive marketing offers. So it's a practice from the Spanish agency, so the agency doesn't act ad hoc, as soon as someone called someone because you can protect yourself in a way that simply says no, we don't want to receive advertising offers. If someone continues, then you can contact the agency and in that sense the agency will act as it does. We, in such cases, have made a lot of solutions that we have banned, and in the case of such marketing harassment again, so to speak, we have also initiated misdemeanor proceedings. I wanted to say that as for this publication of the list of debtors and putting on a pillar of shame, that's what I'd like to look back on. The agency also had certain requirements for which it responded immediately. Namely, the Tax Administration did so, otherwise it is a practice and other countries we have discussed, but of course it must be regulated legally because every processing of personal data must have some basis and purpose with this publication of taxpayers, we know what the purpose of this publication was, which, and why it wanted to influence, I am not going to enter into that part right now. But the fact is, if you'd like to, for example. whether your neighbor is a taxpayer you couldn't do it to a simple CTRL Faind function but you had to list all of that entire list to find his name. The IRS, however, made sure that all of this was within some legal framework and that interventions were carried out in the law itself for this purpose, and set out exactly what conditions the list could be published and how these debtors could be found there in the first place. What the agency responded was when some other persons who did not want to use the fact and processed the data of those persons in a way that simply by enrolling a person, they could immediately find out whether he was a taxpayer or not. And that's where we reacted and we made the solutions that we forbid, because there was no proper legal basis here, so the law or consent of those persons, and so the agency reacted in those cases. Finally, what I would also like to say, and as far as the OIB is concerned, it seemed to me that it was also about that. The OIB is by no means a secret number, it is as personal data as any other which is regulated by the OIB Act and exactly the OIB Act as well as some specific laws, essentially under which conditions can actually be collected by the OIB. So that banks, HEP state-owned legal entities owned by local self-government are legal collectors of the OIB, and also banks under specific rules have the right to collect OIBs. It's a law on the prevention of money laundering, the law on the prevention of terrorism and the like. So these are some special laws that prescribe it. So we had a lot of questions here, too, but any use of the OIB is illegal if it is not prescribed by law, until, say, the banks, HEP, telecommunications operators and the like have the right under special laws to collect OIBs. And I'd like to say that the agency has been really trying and trying to work on its visibility. Now here's statistics, however, have shown that there is some kind of progress, but what I also see as one I might not say is a flaw, but as perhaps one obstacle in perhaps a better, recognition of agencies, that we may be taken a little more seriously is the fact that the agency does not have the possibility of direct punishment, and what other such independent bodies have, but in the law-intentioned cases, it has the possibility of launching appropriate procedures. It's criminal and criminal proceedings. I believe that if the agency could directly impose penalties as it seems in some agencies that it might in some way have greater authority and might be taken more seriously. And I just wanted to say for the end, and that's about the agency and the commissioners, that the agency is unnecessary and so on. First of all, the Agency is necessary, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is a request from the European Union and it is established according to the model of other such bodies implementing the protection of personal data, with the need for the protection of personal data in all Member States of the European Union. The right to access information doesn't have all states, but protection of personal data definitely does. And in addition, it is constitutional law, the protection of personal data is also guaranteed by the Constitution and, in fact, the abolition of the agency would violate international regulations that are above the law under its legal rank. This is primarily the Directorate for the Protection of Individuals 95/46, as well as the 108 Convention. Another brief observation, which is that the agency still has no director from which it could in fact be concluded in some way that it is decapitated and that in principle no one represents it. I wanted to say, however, that the agency has a deputy director who, for eight months now, I think is doing his job properly so that there are really no delays in the work of the agency. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69971	Thank you very much. The Republic has Vice President Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69972	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, when you spoke in part of your final presentation and what the report says is the right to access information in the previous replica, but now I would like to give you a recommendation or a request, which was also defined in her report and the State Audit when she spoke about the effectiveness of the collection in local and regional self-government units. In fact, information or information on users of services and access rights to information is recommended in order to try to find out if there is a need for additional financial resources and human resources and to make one review of the right to access information, i.e. transparency of work in terms of informing your citizens and units of local and regional self-government in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69973	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69974	A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2012 The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2012 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was accepted by 107 votes in favour and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69975	We will discuss - Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2012 The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by Deputy Interior Minister Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69976	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. The initial basis for the preparation of the 2012 plan was established a mine suspected area of 745.5 km2, an area exclusively polluted by unexploded killing resources of 7.3 km2 and a planned financing amounting to 345 million kuna, of which for humanitarian demining operations 302 million kuna. The implementation of demining and general reconnaissance in 2012 removed the risk of mine explosives and unexploded killings from 67 million 278 781 m2 in the Republic of Croatia. Demining operations through 254 idea projects of search and demining have removed the mine risk of a surface area of 26 million 935 549 m2. Mine-mining operations aimed at reducing through 17 demining idea projects removed mine risk from the surface of 3 million 560 906 m2. In 2012 the total demining area of 30 million 491 455 m2 was in the Republic of Croatia. General reconnaissance in order to produce documentation projects and update mine suspected areas has been reduced by 29 million 413 276 square meters. The general demining reconnaissance survey aimed at reducing mine suspected areas by another 7 million 354 square metres, resulting in the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia being reduced by a general reconnaissance of 36 million 787 326 square meters in 2012. In accordance with the above mentioned size of the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by unexploded means of murder in the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2012 it was 685,5 km2. The demining operations in 2012 removed the risk of mine-explosive assets and unexploded means of killing in the Republic of Croatia from a surface of 30 million 491 m2 of which by search method 10 million 59 395 m2 and by demining method 20 million 432 060 m2. Therefore, the 2012 humanitarian demining plan in the demining section was reached by 92%. The largest share in the demining area structure with a share of 64.2% has agricultural surfaces, then forest surfaces and maquitos and karsts. Furthermore, on 31.12.2012, the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia was marked with 13516 mine threat codes. In addition, the area polluted exclusively by unexploded means of killing has been marked with 383 hazard signs. In 2012, 24 pyrotechnician overseers and 12 pyrotechnician overseers conducted surveillance tasks. A total of 479 solutions on review, implementation projects for changes and additions have been adopted, implementation projects. Of these, 463 positive solutions and 16 negative solutions were adopted. 192 introduced into business. In total, 778 expert controls were carried out in the course of search and demining operations. Professional surveillance of the operations carried out was carried out on 5086 control samples of 535946 m2 which account for 1.76% of the total search and demining area. The obligation is at least 1%. During the implementation of the projects on which expert surveillance was carried out in search and demining operations was found and destroyed 2150 against pedestrian mines, 2331 anti-arming mines and 4371 partial unexploded killings. A total of 5 projects during quality control were found mine explosives and unexploded killings, and a repeat of operations on the surface of 338 321 m2. As in previous years in 2012 the largest source of financing for demining operations was the State budget of the Republic of Croatia which participates in financing 61%. Legal persons or investors participated in the investment, demining 25.7%. The total donations were 4.8% and the EU was 8.4% through IPA projects in 2009 and 2010. The average price of all demining transactions in 2020 was 7.66 kuna per metre square metre without VAT, which is 10.8% higher than in 2011. Of the planned 305 million 362 762 kunas, 272 million 628 887 kuna is 89.3% of the planned funds. The national budget for 2012 for the Croatian Mine Action Centre total planned financing of 305 million 362 762 kuna. Legal persons, investors financed demining operations totalling EUR 69 387 809 million. In 2012, the largest share of legal persons as well as in the previous three years was achieved by Croatian forests d.o.o. that the realisation of the funds of the legal persons participated with 43.2%. In accordance with the Law on the humanitarian demining of mine danger education and the assistance of mine victims, it was implemented during 2012 with a co-ordinated role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and in cooperation with the authorities of the state administration in accordance with their respective competences, as well as domestic international organisations and associations. Unfortunately, during 2012, there were two mine incidents and a mine accident in which three people were killed. In mine incidents, a pyrotechnician unfortunately died, and one suffered minor bodily injuries. In a mine accident, a civilian was killed. In total, from 1991 to 31 December 2012, in 1346 mine incidents and accidents, 508 people were killed in 1965. According to the data presented in the Report, it is evident that the humanitarian demining plan for 2012 has been implemented almost entirely. The affairs of humanitarian demining are agreed on in a larger than planned amount. The marking of the entire mine suspected area, the coordination and education on mine dangers and the assistance of mine victims and international co-operation has been carried out in the scope and manner as set out in the 2012 plan. Although this 2012 report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2012 has established almost entirely the implementation of the 2012 humanitarian demining plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the 61st session, it is necessary to highlight the lower fact important for the achievement of strategic decisions concerning mine action in the Republic of Croatia. The national mine action programme adopted by the Croatian Parliament in September 2009 planned a total reduction in the mine suspected space of the Republic of Croatia in 2012 by 134.5 km square. The programme identified a demining area of 69,8 km square given that the available funding for 2012 was 268 million kuna, which was twice less than the programme established by the achievement of part of the programme in 2012 and which were related to demining could not be implemented in the planned size programme. Finally, I would only mention that on 31st December 2013, the total size of the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively on explosives in the Republic of Croatia is 613.6 km square, that it extends within 91 cities and municipalities in 12 counties and is marked with 12 868 markings that point to mine danger and possible discovery of unexploded killings. During the period since the draft Croatian Mine Action Centre, 4.2 billion kuna has been invested in the Republic of Croatia in humanitarian demining operations. The state budget took part with 59% in total demining funds, i.e. with a total of 2.48 billion kuna. In the period from 1991-2014 in 1353 mine incidents and accidents, 510 people died unfortunately in 1976. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69977	Thank you too, Deputy. We have one replica, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69978	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy, you can see that this report is very exhausting and, of course, you yourself said that the execution plan was complete. But you didn't mention and I didn't even find this report reading anything about the demining of the submarines. We know that for the rest of the mines we have from previous world wars also from the Homeland War and especially when NATO had its actions, we've been letting ourselves out of the media, that mines have been dropped to the south of the Adriatic because they couldn't return to the base with the unexploded means they were carrying. Also last year, there was a programme in Dubrovnik Aquarium, it was a project from the European Command of the United States of America's humanitarian demining programme when six dolphins were brought into the area of the Dubrovnik Aquarium, in such a way that they were actually marking these lagging mines. However, it is one of the programmes, or one of the actions. I'm interested in whether or not you're thinking that way. And while we're on the Adriatic, while we're already in the south, I'm also going to use what the plans are actually like when the cleaning and demining of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County will end. Here's a recent charity dinner, the day of the city where we secured the funds, we gave the funds I think of the Senj-Lic County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69979	We have an answer for you, Deputy Minister. You can respond from the scene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69980	Dear MPs. This underwater demining issue is important, important. But there are always priorities of priority. One of the most important priorities was to sort out this land section in some way, to allow people to work, to act, to practice. However, this is such an important issue that the government has recognised it, and it is currently under way to draft the Law on Mine Action in the Republic of Croatia, where this issue is recognised, there are certain proposals, ways that this part will also be covered and demined, to enable one safe use of our aquarium. As far as I understand this question of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County is concerned, that county will have what is said and happy and honored or that what is said will completely clear its space as well as the Virovitica-Podravka County of all these remaining counties. The two counties will be completely cleared of mine explosive non-exploded funds. Some kind of planned imaginary deadline is how well I was informed 4.4.2014.means these two areas,and the two counties would be completely renovated, cleaned and prepared for one normal use by our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69981	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless you do. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69982	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Deputy Minister, Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the mine problem and mine action in the Republic of Croatia, we can say that a major visible shift has been made in solving this particular problem which the Republic of Croatia has faced in the course of and especially since the Homeland War. The Republic of Croatia is today safe from mine danger in all parts of transport infrastructure, tourist destinations, areas of renovation, gardens and areas around facilities of social purpose. The government recognised the mine problem as a security economic and environmental problem from the beginning and confirmed this in all key components of mine action primarily by ensuring stable sources of funding in the state budget, loans from the world bank and public companies of the Republic of Croatia, EU funds, as well as good and transparent relations with international donors, community and donors in the country. Today, under 90 towns and municipalities and 12 counties still suffer the consequences of mining on this day. Unfortunately, it's still a large number, but fortunately, that number decreases every day. The surface structure according to purpose is 62% of the forest, the agricultural land 26% and the maquis and the debris with 12%. The national mine action programme 2009-2019 defined all assumptions for the solution of the mine problem including capacity and necessary resources. Important tasks in the next period are, as so far, co-ordination of mine danger education and assistance to victims of mines that are continuously carried out with a number of organisations and associations as well as with state administration bodies. With the proper selection of priority projects of constant education, the number of victims decreases year after year and it is important to point out that for the last loss, the last child loss occurred in 2004 while unfortunately the victim was too much in last year 2013. Many agreements have been signed with a dozen countries in the world that we want to provide professional assistance with our experience and further our basic tasks will be to reduce mine suspected space with all available methods today, constantly warn about the existing mine danger, maintain the mark of mine suspected spaces, carry out all the prescribed measures, controls on demining sites. Our goal is to achieve the role of a stable and effective partner in the world's antimine community and to build the experience, knowledge and ability to build into the global mine problem in the world. As regards humanitarian demining in 2012, the financial resources spent amounting to €272 637 million were granted. On 1st January 2012, the total size of the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by unexploded killings in the Republic of Croatia was 752.8 km square and spread within 101 cities and municipalities and 12 counties and was marked with 16 thousand 250 tags indicating the mine danger and the possible discovery of unexploded killings. When we mention these markings, I must mention the irresponsible and almost frightening behavior of the individual who removes these markings and thus really question a number of lives. In 2012, the following objectives were planned to be achieved, meaning the reduction of mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by non-exploded killing resources by the Republic of Croatia by 67.1 km square, the demining of 12 km of square orcs, the launch of systematic removal of mine risk in the Kopački rit park, the maintenance of the mark of the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia, the coordination of mine risk education activities and assistance to victims, and the positioning and promotion of the Croatian mine action system to the international community. In 2012, the following was done, the mine suspected area was reduced and the area polluted exclusively by non-exploding deadly resources by 67.3 km square, of which by demining operations 30.5 km square and by conducting general reconnaissance of 36.8 km square. To carry out demining operations, 305.4 million kunas were planned and 272.6 million kunas were approved and spent. In 2012, 2150 anti-walking and 2331 anti-arming mines and 4371 unexploded killings were found and destroyed during demining operations. Out of the total demining transactions, 35.2% were security priorities, 57.5% of socioeconomic development priorities and 7.3% of environmental priorities. 13.2 km of square necklaces were demined, which is a 10% transfer compared to the planned one. The marking of the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was maintained on 31 December 2012 in the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by non-exploded killings was marked with 13,889 markings indicating the mine danger and the possible discovery of unexploded killings. Education on mine dangers and assistance to mine victims was also conducted during 2012 with a co-ordinated role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and in cooperation with state administration authorities in accordance with their competences and domestic and international organisations and associations. The positioning and promotion of the Croatian mine action system in the international community has been conducted through various forms of cooperation with more than 25 countries. The 9th international expert consultation on humanitarian demining was held in 2012 under the high auspices of the President of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic. Thanks to the expertise of the people of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the very pyrotechnicians who work in the field and the government's efforts, we are sure that the strategic goal of the national programme will be realised. Let me say a few more things, so as far as I'm concerned, here's the deputy mentioned that in the first quarter of 2014, a complete demining of Dubrovnik-Neretva County is expected and there is one sign of gesture and the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva, the mayor's pardon and donation of his 200 thousand kuna to demining Lika-Senj County. Also Virovitičko-Podravska County is planning its full demining in 2014 while Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posavia County are planning to deminate in 2015. It is also important to highlight only the restructuring of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which had employed 2 deputies and 6 assistants until last year, while after restructuring, the number fell to the director and 3 assistants, which certainly reduced the centre's own costs. Everything that is done is done by priorities and in agreement with the mayors regardless of which political parties or options they came from so that this job is truly commendable, means deprived of any political influence. Since I come from Osijek-Baranja County, let me say that all agricultural areas have been cleared from mines in Osijek-Baranja County and what I really think is important to highlight. Similarly, as far as Osijek-Baranja County is concerned, almost 1/5 of all jobs, whether it is unfortunately or fortunate, unfortunately too many mines in the area, demining operations have been done in Osijek-Baranja County. And let me finish, so the SDP club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69983	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Nekic, you spoke nicely in the discussion of the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources. I will, my attention is precisely on this part spent funding for 2012. You were talking about the fact that we also had funding from the state, but also from donors. I don't know if you know it, but perhaps the director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre may know better, so he may tell us later that he is, for example. The U.S. delegation who wanted to donate demining funds to the state of Karlovac, but when they heard they had to pay VAT, therefore the demining tax then were quite angry and gave up such an intention to pay funds through the Croatian Mine Action Centre, in favour of the demining of the Karlova County. Given the new law and legislation, I think that these donation funds will be much less than they were before and that there will be a smaller number of those who decide to make a donation under such conditions. It is not good and I think it challenges the overall, therefore the total demining of Croatian territory and extends it for a greater number of years than is foreseen by 2019, I think, the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69985	Thank you. Answer, colleague Nekic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69986	Dear colleague Grubisic, I really must admit that I am not familiar with this case that you mention and what you mention about VAT, it is actually a matter to discuss and I agree that a greater number of donors in this area would certainly be freed from VAT payments. That's where we can agree. I say, as far as demining itself is concerned, it's done a lot. You say you question the very implementation of the mine action strategy. We really hope, I say, that thanks to the efforts of the employees of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, as well as the pyrotechnicians themselves, this work will be done according to plan and that Croatia will be cleared from mines in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69987	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69988	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear deputy, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues in such a number of compositions, it's not a very small topic. The report that we are discussing, frankly, is debateable, given that if I am not mistaken in February last year, he came to that position, so let's essentially say that it is in a situation to defend himself even if the Deputy Minister is actually representing that report, to defend his predecessor's report. Now here I was talking to my colleague Miles a little bit to evaluate the memory of childhood, and I believe that there are more of us here at least this way when I whisper that we read once that politician and he had the column believe it or not. Well, I found something here that belongs to the category believe it or not, but I couldn't believe it. CROMAC Governance Council member not related to this report, CROMAC Board member is Mr Goran Radman, I think I'm staying here and I'm not going to go on about it. It's just that a little bit with a little bit of coffee you'd say. As regards the report itself, it has been pointed out that the quantity or the default value has been achieved among other generals. General reconnaissance at least as far as I'm aware, and I admit I'm not some expert on this matter, but somehow I'm following it, a general reconnaissance is such a very misleading category that I might be aware of, I'm not saying that, but I could be aware that every year before making this report and sending it to the Assembly, I'd like to generally move a certain area from mine suspected areas and then find out that maybe it's polluted with something. But I leave it well on my conscience to those who file those reports, and to those who control their reports. What came to me, however, was the report I read in the report of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security with the debate on this report, and it said "A representative of the proposer has pointed out that it will join the redefining of the National Programme for Mine Action and will propose amendments to the Croatian Mine Action Centre to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The changes are needed not only because of insufficient resources but also because of technological progress in demining, which changes the number of people needed." What kind of technological progress is that? As far as I'm aware, I'm still saying I'm not much of an exaggerated expert, but metal detectors are as much as I've known for 10 years and 10 years are the same. Those programmes that have been tested such as researching the impact of non-agricultural fertilisers on grass within the minefield and demining bees have not produced any results. It means that technological progress is reduction, so-called. A reduction or perhaps would be an appropriate expression of a network where you only set certain directions and there is a survey, not a reconnaissance, but there goes a pyrotechnician physically and now makes one grid this between no one fits. Are those who come to this day-to-day to be honest yet undefined areas and who are going to get hurt in the savings measures? And I repeat my thesis that Croatia is not Zagreb. Those of you who are here and who will be covered by this living alongside Kotar forest are in Petrinja between Sisak and Petrinja with Komarevo the famous Komarevo whom we did not want to give the status under the Law on areas of special state care and now they will be covered by it, and we will be here in a warm, pleasant environment more or less pleasant, making such decisions and agree to say a new legal solution or a new version that I must admit absolutely do not like since I live in these areas, I live with these people. There was no way I could agree with this, and I'm absolutely against it. I think this is dangerous and the public needs to know about it. Just before we talked upstairs, watch the hardest when an expert comes and explains something. What do we know about general reconnaissance, what do we know about the mass of their professional expressions? Oh, he's selling us fog just like that. But behind that, probably human lives, that's what's dangerous. There is no information in this report on direct contracts as many as there were and what companies they were. And I'm wondering, and what exactly does a rush procedure do for a job? Look, it's been 20 years since the end of the war now we have an emergency procedure on call. You've got an emergency business assignment to do. What kind of economy? The economy is about to go to bed, not just lie down. And now you've got something that you need to do on call, and it's normally going on purpose. Is it accurate that there are games with offers so one firm offers, say, 3 kuna per metre, another 5, the second competition is replaced by these 5, and these 3 and in both cases the most favourable give up, the automation goes to the other? Is it accurate that some offers were delivered 10 minutes after the deadline or when other offers were seen to explain that it was crowded in the hallway so that they could not be delivered in time? Is it true that there is a certain kind of game, with invitations or unwanted firms, there are impossible conditions, a short deadline for implementation documents, a small price, short deadlines for execution not by jobs that are slow which significantly collects the procedure. Is it accurate that some companies have overcrowded the surface, but no one's asking for deadlines anymore. Do you charge pens for breaking deadlines? We'd like to know the answers to these questions. The DIZ-EKO company is interesting, I won't, you know better than me who are the actors in that story, but in one case, she asked for an agreement to end the contract without consequences, i.e.. that CROMAC does not charge them a bank guarantee. The CROMAC rejected this proposal on 6.11.2012, noting that this would be very dangerous and harmful, so that some new CROMACs would soon change the position of CROMAC, and I wonder if the change in CROMAC's position is related to human policy or to the real situation on the ground. About the same situation, the same story is familiar with the MUP and that, by some logic, things should imply that they will react, but at least my knowledge is not. If I am not a supervisor, the Director's decision shall repeal it, it shall put it out of force. This is an illegal act, and the Penal Code does not make sense to quote articles 291, 295, so I will read only one, which, by taking advantage of its official or social position or influence, provides for an official or other action that should not be carried out or that no official or other action that should be carried out will be punished by a prison sentence of 6 months to 5 years. I think it's very, very interesting, and I suppose you're all guessing that in this case, the MUP was informed, there was no reaction, at least not the one I know of. I'm asking if it's logical, maybe, but I'm not meant to, that when there's a need for machine demining, it doesn't call for a contest, it's a direct contract. Okay, maybe it is, but it's questionable to me. Is it logical that the man who is head of the CROMAC Department is also on the MUNGOS Supervisory Board. I have to admit, I'm a little suspicious. Is it logical that hiring overseers and supervisors is in the domain of a direct director, meaning no competition, but the more absurd it is whether it is logical that it is written in a collective contract. I think it's weird to me. And finally, the work is under way if I'm well informed at about 2.2 million m2, it's done as you said in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the prices are suitable, the performers are satisfied, all wonderful and wonderful, but it's done where the giants don't climb either. Now I'm asking if that's the priority. Otherwise, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, if I am well informed, has about 0.8% surface area under mine dubious means, while let's say Lika-Senjska if I'm not mistaken they're 19.5% recorders and my Sisak-Moslavina with 18% which is a whole other plot. It's forest and agricultural land, unlike what's unreachable to giants. And I'm going to repeat what hurts me the most, and what I mentioned at the beginning, the model reduction. Can we really bureaucratic, administratively make a decision that one of these children living in that area is less important than so-called. savings for the state budget. In Sisak-Moslavina County, only the settlement Moščenica is in the belt day and day, Komarevo too. Is it normal to pass 20% of the territory, find nothing and say it's safe? If anything happens, huh, collateral victim of the administration, you can think. I hope this isn't the way you're going to do it, especially if I have information, or not that I have it, it's in the media, that it's preparing a new law that would make this model legal or legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69989	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69990	Thank you very much. You are also well informed about the Croatian Mine Action Centre and, in general, the demining and distribution of demining. In fact, only the question to Deputy Minister Šimac-Bonačić was indicative, and in connection with Dubrovnik-Neretva County and those worse hammers, so to speak at the border between Montenegro and Croatia, so above the Thick Hill or the Thick Hill where I was with the Special Police in Konavla from the Danube, Dubravka, Popovići, Vitalina, etc. But it is seen that Ličko-Senj County and Sisak-Moslavina, as well as part of Osijek-Baranja County, is from the highest agricultural and forest areas with mine suspected areas. What you were saying about the hasty demining, so what goes too far would be said I think it's related to the Strategic Investments Act. Well, it's most likely that if he calls at all, because I haven't seen Mr. Vrdoljak come in yet. But if he finds himself and wants to invest something in this area, it becomes a mine suspected area, then it'll be a quick demining. And finally, what you said first was that, therefore, the all-present director of Croatian television, so the man who has the background of being from Ogulin and there are mine suspected areas, which is why he was included, and given the knowledge perhaps of JNA's tactics on setting up mine-explosive funds. I guess that's why he's involved in how you said administrative council or what? The administrative board of the Croatian Mine Action Centre for all other functions owned by the company Nautar, the Supervisory Board of Adriatica, the Dean of the City of Vern, etc. He's a very versatile man.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69991	Thank you. We have a colleague Novak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69992	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Grubisic, you reminded me of something about that reduction I forgot to say downstairs. Again if I'm well informed it's not my profession, these reductions are common where they are so-called. correct minefields. It's not a proper proper expression, but where the real minefields are. Unfortunately, we are at war if we ignore those few areas, which is mostly if I remember correctly from some shows, it mainly refers up to the Hungarian border. All that's left is not to say we did it, so you came, so you did it in a row. You know, you've been a part of it yourself as well as a good part of the people yet. As far as the Dubrovnik-Neretva County is concerned, I don't mind and all the county as soon as possible. But the fact is that Dubrovnik-Neretva County has pedigrets of the tourist county, the most touristic place, areas, whatever we want. And that's okay. And it should take all the doubt out there, but the fact is that it's an area that's neither part of the tourist offer nor even in the everyday life of those who don't say adventurer, let alone the civilian population. I won't comment on Mr. Radman after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69993	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69994	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, we witnessed a change in the Public Procurement Act where the restrictions were increased from 70 to 200 or from 200 to 500 related to the performance of the works. But listening to what you said earlier, I just can't believe it. I think you all made a mistake talking about urgency, that's all. avoiding competitions, avoiding even though there is this legal possibility. But if it were the urgency of demining the Republic of Croatia, then perhaps a higher amount of money would be allocated to demining rather than avoiding competition. So I expect you to either say that you were wrong in your debate and that there was no rush, although all the jobs were done by competition or I was wrong. But it's impossible so many years after the war that there's no time for public competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69995	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69996	Thank you very much. You didn't make a mistake. I don't consider myself infallible. I remember once in my life I made a mistake, but... This was a bad break and we're not going to comment on it, I hope my wife didn't hear it. [[You can't hear it.]] But it's a good thing you mentioned this public procurement debate. And that's when I warned about this same problem. And that's when I asked that question from this same place if it was normal. Okay. Deny us, tell us you don't have good information, someone told you not to cheat, deceived you, gave you something that wasn't credible evidence. However, I am afraid that I will disappoint both you and my colleague Grubisic when he mentioned strategic investment, reality. The truth is a little rougher and exactly the way we said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69997	Thank you. And the last of Hrvoje Neklic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69998	Comrade Novak, here I am only going to look back on this part of technological progress. Here I think, maybe I'm thinking wrongly that it was just about increasing capacity and actually modernising from the aspect of equipment that would be available to pyrotechnicians and that would just increase their efficiency. I also find it not correct, you stress the persistent Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So also Virovitica-Podravska County will be demined in full this year, as well as in the year Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posaviska, which I think is not negligible. So I don't think it's right to stress these... about Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think they should be demined. And as far as here, I'm going to give you an example from Osijek-Baranja County, the Municipality of Antunovac, which is actually completely demined, which is very much reflected in the municipality's income.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u69999	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70000	As far as the Dubrovnik-Neretva County is concerned, I don't have anything to be demined, and is that a priority? This is about a minefield that's by the house. You can't put that in a package... Comer, Bridge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where people live today. You have a hundred yards from home, and you have mines, and people live here today, and there are victims not so long ago, and it's a civilian. And about this area, however, let it be demined but the priorities should be known. And what you said about promotion. It's nice to believe in something, you know, but we're too old. The fairy tales are so adaptable to another life, not ours. And here you see that fellow Milas laughed from his heart, because he believes in fairy tales. And this is a fairy tale!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70001	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70002	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's to it before I start. Whoever doesn't believe in anything definitely has a problem and it's time to start. Let's get to the report. It is certain that this report would have had a greater purpose if it had been discussed during last year, although it really came here in June 2013, especially if it had been discussed before the 2014 budget was adopted, I think it would have had a different weight and that perhaps the budget would look a little different than it looks. But when we look at some other reports such as the 2011 HRT Report, which has been waiting for its time to discuss, then this report is well and gone. Mr. Tonkovic said something in general about demining, so here I also think it might be good to say two words at all to remember the whole process, or the history of mine action. Therefore, given the way in which the entities and time can be divided into three periods of '91, '95. So, the time when the focus was, when the focus was conditioned by war, by combat operations. '96. until '98. when the Mine Action Act was passed and when it was established in '98. Croatian Mine Action Centre and the end of '98. when all tasks are coordinated, management shall be taken over by the Croatian Mine Action Centre both at the end and in 2009 when the National Mine Action Programme has been adopted. That's exactly why I brought this up. As Mr. Deputy National Mine Action Programme for 2012 has said, financial resources amounting to €555 million and €500,000 have been identified and 2072 million and €637 000 have been spent. It is therefore apparent that the funds are secured from the 2012 budget and donations, even more than those set out in the National Programme. It is clear from this crystal that by funding such a strategic goal, so Croatia without mines established by the national programme will not be achieved within the time limit within which it is planned, and this is the end of 2019. It is important here to say that today's government, or coalition in its pre-election programme Plan 21, has announced an increase in funding for the implementation of humanitarian demining. Unfortunately, however, in 2012, 2013 which is the same behind us, and according to the funds provided for in the 2014 budget, we are being denied and we see that none of this will be. I particularly refer to and expire in 2014 as in 2013, unfortunately, it was projected from the budget, which amounts to around 255 million kuna, which is, therefore, significantly below the 572 million foreseen in the National Programme. We are aware of the overall current situation in the economy, but I think it is really necessary to make the most of the effort and secure the maximum resources that are foreseen by the National Programme. Because in my opinion this year has been conditioned the most critical activity of mine action. So, the National Programme is also foreseen in 2013 and 2014, and therefore the largest possible financial means are used for demining precisely for the reason I say in 2013, but here I am, in particular, refering to 2014 as a key one. It is a transition towards, therefore, the implementation of humanitarian demining where we come into the possibility of using structural funds, so EU structural funds. And that this year is financed as planned by the National Mine Action Plan and that everything is prepared for the withdrawal of funds from the Structural Funds, I think that the goal, therefore, of Croatia without mines, could be achieved by the end of 2019. In that sense, and I use this report and I appeal to the Government, therefore to Mr Tonkovic as her representative here, and to all of us that in the rebalancing which is also announced and that very soon we will try to find the means together, or to finance this immensely important activity both in the security, social, economic, demographic and any other sense, and I am sure that we will achieve this, that we will all achieve consensus. Furthermore, I believe that the positioning and promotion of mine action, so the system we have outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, is extremely important. We have well-developed skills, we have great experience and technology that we can offer as a brand in several areas where and where this kind of activity will be needed. I therefore believe that the Government, especially through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, can and must be extremely effective in lobbying so that our affirmation can freely say brand of activity beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. The report shows that the demining plan for 2012 was realized 92% different from the county of 43% in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska to 109 in Vukovar-Srijemska. The most demining agricultural area is extremely important and the biggest investor as before were Croatian forests. All this, of course, creates conditions for production, for further return, settlement, so all that means for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is daily safe life. The report is in itself well-conceived and I have no significant objections to it except what I think is necessary again, we may need to remind ourselves of a few words at all about the interest of a pyrotechnician who is definitely one of the most difficult and which is why we must strive for all of these people to get the best possible conditions so that they can make a maximum commitment to what they are doing, that is, to make the accident in their hard work any less. We see that in 2012 or better said since 2011-2013, there have been two mine incidents, one mine accident that has had fatalities for two people and one minor wound, and that it is a decline relative to the reduction compared to the previous period, but I repeat, I think we have to strive or work on that, although the demining activity itself is dangerous and accidents occur independently of the human factor but I say we have to create conditions where they will be less represented. I will also take the opportunity to mention, or ask, what about the Law on humanitarian demining, it was to be passed last year, as far as I know, the proposal was not even released in public debate. I hope that this is not an answer to all these questions raised in previous discussions, i.e. that it is not a real indicator of how much the government holds to demining, or how much the problem of mines and all that mines mean in this sense to the Republic of Croatia is important to this government, or to this government that was elected two years ago. I think we have to say that so far everything that has been done through this report can be accepted in some way, however, but everything that seems to be in the financial sense, and even in this second one, let's say that in the last two years as far as I know, the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been established, which, if I am not mistaken, has been systemised with 10 jobs of which 7 have been filled, and since I know somewhat the system of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, it is not clear to me at all why this office is formed. As far as I know, half of the employees there are intended or planned for the European Structural Funds, and on the other hand, I know that the Croatian Mine Action Centre has a department of international cooperation and European funds, I know that they are well structured, that they have personnel who can do this, and I think this is just another administrative story that unfortunately pulls a few million kunas a year that could definitely have been used in some other role, for some kind of board that matters to people, which means someone's life so I can't say it was a good move by the government of the Republic. Finally, the HDZ Club will support the report, but I will point out once again the need to find the funds so that the year that has been achieved in front of us in the maximum impact and I say what could happen if we really get to work in the right way, so we are talking about extracting funds from the EU Funds, we could really achieve a strategic goal not to achieve a strategic objective but to make Croatia a safe country without mines, which will be for the benefit of all those whose life means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70003	Thank you, too. We'll continue with the replicas, Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Indeed demining the polluted territory of Croatia which has left us with the most insidious forms of warfare lately, which is in our Homeland War, the Serbian Army is of national interest and you spoke well to a colleague. When you spoke about the need for this and the need to secure the budget, and indeed most of the public is interested, the colleague talked about the reconstruction of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and then the question arises when we will get any report from this government office also for demining and what is its role when the budget spending of 1.14 million kuna but only on administrative needs. Of course, what is very important and this is the agricultural area is said in the national plan that by 2015 all the mines will be cleared from the oranium, you yourself said by 2019 that the whole area should be, but the budgets are getting smaller and smaller every year and I simply doubt, I don't know, maybe Mr. Director, here he is, having some other information and really thinks it's going to happen. What I'm more interested in, or what I'd like someone to talk about here tonight, if not, then at least the director in the final, and that's, here's Kopački ass, but it's also Velebit and some of our other nature parks that we're open to tonight, and here's the final one, and I'm just going to say, I've recently watched a show about Velebit that touristic, of course, is being presented, but there are still mine-contaminated areas, and what's worst they're right near the path that it's moving along.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70005	Thank you. We understand. We have an answer, Comrade Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, here's a short one. So I said in my debate what I think and how I think about funding the current year, as I say, this '13. I'm afraid it's behind us. So, I really think that demining or mine problem should be approached really jointly, indeed maximumly engaged, of course in financial terms. I don't think anyone in this country would mind finding the funding provided for by the national programme and that activity, so we finance it as it deserves. Oh, okay, I wouldn't speculate right now, I said what I know, and I pointed out my opinion, but whether they match what they're set up for or not, we'll probably see it someday, eventually knows it and the one whose decision they're formed for. And I'm gonna use this replica, I don't know Mrs. Bonacci, she asked about the submarine, the Adriatic. Therefore, in the public procurement plan from the Ministry of Defence, a submarine or submarine is envisaged to be the one to be the one to be financed from II. World War II and the Homeland War, it has the job to clean it up and take it off, so. I don't know if I got your question straight and if I helped you with anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70007	Thank you. Martina Banic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Milas, in your presentation, you mentioned Plan 21 and you said that the plan envisioned an increase in demining funds. If I understood correctly, part of these funds should have been for 2013, and part should have been for 2014, but these funds have nothing, they are smaller. Several times you have actually said that 2014 is the key and the most critical and in this sense you are appealing to at least move those funds out of budget rebalancing, and that after that, you could continue to work through European funds. Comrade Milas, don't you think it's a little late for European funds because these days we're listening to what the situation is about withdrawing funds from European funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70009	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Banić, yes, I did say that in 2013, or 2014 we are talking about it because it is current, it comes from the National Programme for Mine Action, which shows that these two years were supposed to be the most widely funded in the mine action precisely because this story about European funds can then, that is to say, come to an end. I understand your doubts in view of all the media cars these days related to the fact that the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds received no accreditation, that we did not even withdraw a 150m-euro advance, etc. Surely that non-compliance does not contribute to an atmosphere that could, I don't know, and optimism helps the atmosphere that could help us in some way tomorrow and through demining projects we can withdraw, but I say I know the CROMAC structure, have a good department for international cooperation for European funds, and I think that if the government, or the state, really helps them in all the ways that they are, so that they can do so and that they can finance themselves from European structural funds in this way and achieve the great goal of "Croatia without mines". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70011	Thank you, too. Marijan Škurić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, we agree on a few things. First of all, I'm sure we agree that in the beginning the funds for demining were not enough and I was glad that I heard at one point that you said that if you ever needed one consensus around everyone, that the funds found, it should now, to solve really the one with the goal of "Croatian without Mines". But I really wouldn't want it to implicate itself in a way that this government hasn't done enough. We are already late for the funds we were supposed to make, not since yesterday or the day before or two years ago, but we are almost 8 years behind with those funds in the work. I deeply believe that this government, this ministry, something you said, has confirmed with the Croatian Mine Action Centre... at the head, it is very professional, serious people who have made many activities and measures, proactiveities to reach the means and to launch even greater demining in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70013	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I'm really not what I'm saying, so when we talk about consensus, I really think, but this other thing I'm saying is facts. I don't want to speculate at all, are or aren't, I'm just talking about what's said, so the program said it would be more generous means to finance mine action, again I'm aware of the situation in the economy in the Republic of Croatia, but what you're saying is that it's 8 years late, so it's not exactly true if I'm saying something about this demining and the previous years of funding provided by the national programme were somewhere I don't know exactly now but let's say for 2009. 300 million people, 2008 are here somewhere, and they are not respected until the end, but they are largely respected. And I think that we should, I haven't had a chance to talk about it this way before, since I've only recently been in this House but I would say what I'm saying now. I think we should all work together to appeal to Mr. Tonkovic, to the President of Parliament and the Government. It's a problem for all of us and we just can't close our eyes and I don't want to be politically bickering from one side to the other, but literally we all have to do something together to bring this problem to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70015	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the closing sentence, you said that we were waiting, of course, and we want Croatia to become a safe country without mines, and we all agree on that. Of course, every part of the mined area needs demining and therefore I am surprised by this replication within counterparts Novak and Grubisic and it is not fair that this relationship with Dubrovnik-Neretva County is not fair, since here we recently made a donation from Dubrovnik just a week ago to one area that we consider to be at risk. It was also said that it was an indicative issue, as well as an insinuation on strategic investments, etc. what all the instructions are. However, here is when I looked at which part was demined, it is the area north of the border crossing of the thick hill, then it is the settlement Dubrava in the municipality of Konavle, the Municipality of Dubrovačko coast, the settlement of Topolo, northwestern of Trnovica, etc., etc. I don't know if there are any strategic investments planned. I'm not so sure. Therefore, I must also say that there must not always be any agreed questions. These are questions that I was interested in as representatives of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and of course I asked and I took advantage of the opportunity of a representative of the Government and also of the office, therefore it is an area that I was interested in. And you mentioned before in response to one replica, you asked about the demining of the submarines, I don't know about any submarine, but I am aware of the situation that there's not exactly a certain position there, and I got an answer from the deputy minister to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70017	Answer me, fellow Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll start at the end. I'm sorry I only heard the question but not well and I wanted to help, maybe I said wrong and I'm sorry. Regarding your first part, therefore, what Mr Novak and Grubisic say, I can even understand it. Look, they're absolutely likely to be referred to by people, and I think they're obliged, especially Mr. Novak, who comes from Sisak where the center is located, but it's his duty to ask questions that people, or some dilemmas, and I know what people are telling him. I think I even have answers to some of their conditionally spoken dilemmas about Dubrovnik or Dubrovnik area why it's now being done there, why not here, I say before I did something there with the pyrotechnics in the system and I think I know why it's happening. And it's not unusual to me, but I think they deserve answers to those questions, so let people get into a situation to assess whether or not that's what satisfied them, and therefore those who have referred them such questions will get an answer, and eventually they will all be eventually satisfied if the answer is satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70019	Thank you. And Hrvoje Neklic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70020	My colleague Milas, that I, too, and my colleague Skvarić, must admit that Plan 21 has been advocating larger funds, but as you yourself know because of the situation in the budget, the economic crisis of all the difficulties we have encountered and as well as the ones that are hitting us, this is currently our reality. You said, you mentioned this government's relationship to humanitarian demining, and you said let's say 2008 and 2009, but I would also like to tell you that this year's humanitarian demining is more than expected in 2005, 2007, 2010, 2011. But I completely agree with you when you said it would be good to provide as much money as possible to make Croatia a land without mines and to make everyone feel safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70021	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I repeat my colleague Nekic without any political speculation, I just said what someone had promised. Maybe you should say that sometimes, so no matter who it is, let people learn not to make promises lightly but to make them at least stand behind what they said. Here's so much for that. And in 2005, 2006, it is logical to allocate more resources today. Today is a bigger system, today we have a lot more companies dealing with demining, today we have more technology and everything else and it's perfectly normal and logical that bigger funds are being allocated. It's a shame they don't stand out even bigger. I claim and I am sure that there is a way to respect the national programme and to really do what is provided for financing to find it. And I say there are so many holes through which simply money leaks. If that's what I'm not going to talk about, I'm not going to be philosophizing about smart phones or cars, and I don't want to get in on this, but I'm sure a few hundred million can be found which would really help the activities of mine action, so humanitarian demining to get to the branches, I say once we can bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70023	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70024	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister and Director of CROMAC, colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't be too concerned with these data that are listed in this report, but I do have to say that the report is extremely contentious, quality-prepared, and I might in that part be some indication of a problem that has been so far and perhaps an attempt at a solution. So even though it has been 18 years since the war, Croatia is concerned with mines among the most polluted countries. Mines are one of Croatia's chronic problems, and we can even say that it is a civilizational and moral increase of all of us living in the 21st century. Complete demining should be carried out by the beginning of 2019, which requires 3.5 billion kuna, all defined under the 2009-2019 National Mine Action Programme, and thus the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to removing the mine danger completely during that period. The total value of that demining part is about 4.5 billion kuna, and when we divide it by that 10 years, it turns out that we were supposed to predict a minimum of 450 million kuna in that period. Thus, what you can see is how much money has been shown so far is quite lacking and indeed perhaps one doubt about whether we will succeed under this programme and according to the projects of the National Mine Action Programme until 2019 and solve the entire area of Croatia from mines. In this section, which was defined to be the size of a mine suspected area and an area polluted exclusively by non-lethal and unexploded deadly means in the Republic of Croatia on 31 December was 685.5 km2. That part of the area is covered by all 12 counties, and now I am glad to hear that here is the plan by the 4th month of this year that the two counties will no longer be covered by mines. It's an absolutely good trend and a good way to solve things. Also, demining operations in 2012 removed the threat of mine explosive assets and non-exploding killings in the Republic of Croatia from a surface of 30 km2, from which the method of demand with 10 km2, and the demining method from 20 km2. In line with the above, the 2012 humanitarian demining plan in the demining section was reached 72%. In that part, I'd like to point out the basic problems we have now, which is, above all, I'd like to put first and that's people's safety. There are 3,500 mine victims in Croatia. During 2012, there were two mine incidents and one mine accident in which 3 people were killed. In mine incidents, a pyrotechnician died, and one suffered minor bodily injuries. In a mine accident, a civilian died. From the draft Croatian Mine Action Centre since '98. By 31 December 2012, 235 mine incidents and accidents involving a total of 314 people died. 116 people were killed, severe bodily injuries were sustained by 127 people, while 71 people were injured more easily. Of these 68 victims were pyrotechnics, and 22 victims were under 18 years old and 5 were killed. Joint actions of education... and warnings led to a stop to child loss so that the last one was in 2004. Unfortunately, when we involve the dead, but we have to involve their families in those deaths, it's a much bigger tragedy, a much bigger victim. So really the safety of people and all the activities we've defined in this report must be based on that part. The second part that he would point out is the economy. As expensive as the demining is, the fact is that Croatia's economy loses about 500 million kuna each year, which is because of forests that can't be cut, which is because of agricultural areas that can't be processed, which is because of... potentials that can't be used. We still have mines in nature parks, along with our communications, roads, railways. We also have mines at our borders. We are in Europe, the Schengen border really must make sure that it does not happen to us that maybe the mines are those that guard our borders, not that mines are the ones that unfortunately and the safety of people and the economy are the problems for us. What would also be said in the economy that the demining activity itself within Croatia has its potential so that in the beginning of 2012 CROMAC 30 legal persons employed by 621 pyrotechnics and who own 55 demining machines and 20 dogs were accredited, while 33 legal persons were accredited at the end of 2012 to carry out search and demining activities in which 636 pyrotechnicians were employed and who own 54 demining machines and 16 dogs. This is very much in that part of the potential that we must take advantage of and what is defined, that the largest share in humanitarian demining operations in 2012 had the company Mungos owned by a state that makes up 10%, also the company Dok-Ing with an interest of 8.9% and the company Tornado with a share of 7.9%. And the third part, which would like to point out in front of the HNS, is the problem of funding. So after the demining of '98. the years to date are financed from the following sources: the state budget, legal entities and bodies of the state administration, loans from the World Bank and also from donors. Overall, from the establishment of CROMAC until 31.12, it was invested... 3.95 billion kuna, and the state budget participates in this with almost 60% in total funds, which is 2.28 billion kuna. In 2012 as well as previous years, the largest source of financing for demining operations was 61% of 164 million in the state budget, the legal entity 69 million, which accounts for 25% of the donations amounted to slightly less than 5% with 16 million and the EU through IPA projects of 22 million kuna, which accounts for 8%. Of the planned 305 million kunas, 272 made up of 89% of the planned funds. I would really like to mention these issues in a way that must be strengthened primarily by funding where we are sick of falling from donors and also from the legal persons of investors. They are all reduced to Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Croatian highways, HZ Holding, HEP and JANAF. And I think that in that part, it would be a solution to have these legal persons both through credit and especially from the real sources of income that they have increased that part of demining with their belt of responsibility because they have to take care of what they get in that part that those areas that are in some economic function are going to be their income. And of course we must mention and especially praise donors from countries like the United States, Germany, Japan. The local administrations themselves, as well as individual counties. I think that in those actions that are undefined within the National Park of Krka, the Fund of Croatia without mines, we might consider that we, as the first parliamentary representatives, would be included in certain such programmes, in donations, that with our resources we would also help demining not a square meter, but a square mile on each part. What I would especially like to mention are the solutions. Well, first of all, we need to strengthen international cooperation, promote economic potentials in demining at international level. It has already been mentioned here that we have very good quality people who deal with demining. We also have the opportunity to be an export brand and perhaps these stronger international contacts and cooperations can be seen to be an export product. Unfortunately, I don't think we have another example that we've done one job in some international section or that we've won some international competition. And for us to get back we have to... these our companies stand both in the quality financial sector and in the support of our government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There must be an increase in demining funds, what we said from all levels. We talked about that part and, above all, EU funds. But when we talk about funds, the funds can't be planned today and realized tomorrow. Preparation takes many years, and it is, we were late not last year, we were five or six years late last year, that we have prepared quality programs, projects and all that we should be able to run towards EU funds. And what is important as a solution, we need to increase the efficiency and operationality of all participants, especially those involved in demining procedures. And that is, we may need to define the single rules in some way, we need to define perhaps a single demining price because these 33 demining entities may be so competing with each other in a way that they lower the unit price that is now around 7.66 kuna and it is still too small that all these companies and all these companies can in some way bear those costs not only for those equipment that is extremely expensive and quickly spent, but also for the people themselves. Well there's also another suggestion that the problem of all these companies is great indifference and high tax debts. And I think that at the government level, we should find an opportunity for these companies to handle these tax debts through demining and thus try to save themselves from pre-fashion settlements, as well as from the very bankruptcys of which at the end of the country and no one has any use at all. Of course, this would preserve jobs, ensure the continuity of the company's work, settle debts towards workers, suppliers, and demining a more significant area according to the priorities of the state. Then the question is, why do these companies come to the problem of liquidity and debt? Well, because every company is planning a year in advance on how many people it takes, how much money it needs to pay, which it needs equipment. If, then, that part of the planning and the funds invested in demining is not realized, then, of course, such problems are very difficult in that part. Here is what I would like first of all to point out, that demining should not be a cost but an investment. And this government especially the Croatian Mine Action Centre sees it very well, especially as it sets the goal that we all need, which is that we want Croatia without mines and also with greater economic development of Croatia, and the HNS club Liberal Democrats will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70025	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Hrvoje Neklic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70026	Yes, my colleague, you have well noticed that we should have prepared the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, and we have also heard here, I find it incorrect to actually mention smartphones, mentioning some luxury vehicles, and that let's say that these funds could be spent in demining. So I could also say then listen maybe the funds from Fimi-Media, the black funds could also be spent for that purpose so today they would have a really bigger area cleaned than mines.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70027	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70028	Dear colleague, I agree with you in that part, there was plenty of space before and opportunity for what is said for some million, ten million and 100 million kunas to come forward and invest in what we really want in this Croatia. And with this message, we want Croatia without mines. There was a lot of opportunities, and unfortunately there was no will or desire to do it. But once again, this government and the centers really want it now, and I think we're on our way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70029	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70030	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Tonkovic, the esteemed Mr. Jakopec, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2012. Time's up. There's been a lot of talk in the debates. I would prefer to have a report for 2013, but this is a very important topic, especially for us Osijek-Baranja County, but also for the whole of Slavonia and Baranja because precisely of these 12 counties 5 is Slavonian-Baranja County, just us who have felt a lot of war, but we feel the consequences of war. Mines are the result of and aggression against the Republic of Croatia, therefore those who wonder whether to withdraw or not to withdraw the complaint have nothing to doubt. Those who set should also help to demining Croatia. But here I want to say right at the beginning, a few years ago when I was mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, I managed it for a few years and then they asked me what was the biggest problem in Osijek-Baranja County that you can't solve. It was 2008, at the time the economy was going, we significantly reduced and the number of unemployed and growing economic zones and in all segments everything was growing, it was going well, but there was a problem that we couldn't solve with the help of donors, which is exactly the problem of demining. I remember a few years ago when we started performing more aggressively in Brussels, we opened a regional development agency, we tried and talked in Brussels, but at that point we were told there were no Croatian and mine tickets on the map of Europe. Therefore, this is what the imperative, which should be inserted, entered into the strategy, put into plans so that Croatia can also get some of the funds. I'm glad we implemented the project together with CROMAC, demining this belt along the Hungarian border, but there was a lot of work, a lot of work and a lot of effort. And right away I want to say at the beginning on behalf of the HDSSB, we will support this report, the 2012 report, and I think that CROMAC is working as well as demining companies, but that is still not enough. It's not enough because I think the government should allocate more funds for this particular purpose. We should congratulate the Croatian forests and Croatian waters and everyone who has helped the state systems but we could do more, especially in this part of the garden and space closer to the residential settlements, but with a special focus on the processing surfaces because we all know that, especially when we talk about eco-production in these areas, that they can multiple funds and have a significant contribution to these areas. But just as we look at the 2012 report, there is a discrepancy with the national programme that was adopted in 2009, which refers to the period until 2019 when we promised to demining the Republic of Croatia. What appears to us as a problem of 1.7 is that there are no donations left behind, and that is a great handicap, especially thanks to the donations so far, both Germany and America and our dear friends who have helped demining Croatia. I also want to say as mayor and mayor, in CROMAC I have always seen a partner and often through certain donations we went to joint projects and demined spaces, we thought it was important and I am glad to see several more units of local administration on the list, but it is one small part in the Republic of Croatia. But there are also strong units of local and regional administrations in the Republic of Croatia that could also help with their donations to those developed spaces, and therefore we often say that fiscal decentralisation is needed in Croatia, funds of alignment are needed, funds that will also help war-torn areas, devastated, mine suspected spaces and areas that are underdeveloped, and that is exactly how Slavonia and Baranja are. So the projects that are being prepared in relation to the Structural Funds are now opening doors for real funds, structural funds. We need to work together, but we're still going to get to the problem of multiplying resources and participation in the projects themselves. Therefore, it is one of the priorities because it is precisely the safety of our citizens, the economic growth and the economic problems we have, especially in this part of Croatia that is mined, that we must solve them jointly. By believing the data relating to that period, but also the area of 639 km2 in 12 counties, 93 units of local administration, it is certainly large and when we look at it it seems to me by some calculation it would take about 3 billion kuna to demining it throughout Croatia. It's a huge asset, and I'm afraid by 2019 we won't be doing a job. I would also like to hear the deadlines for ending in the Republic of Croatia of all spaces, and in particular we had a guarantee that the demining plan for agricultural areas would be completed in 2015. I would only ask your findings whether it will be by the end of 2015 or not. We are particularly interested in Slavonia and Baranja. Also, I would like to ask the answer, there were 463 expert supervisions, 16 of them were defined as non-quality or repeated work. I would ask only that clarification and who answered because the job was not done well. Whether someone died or not, that's what I'm curious about. What is evident, since 2009 demining is dropping and that's what I don't think is good. Well, we had a recent opportunity to see the budget of the Republic of Croatia where the government is increasing by 22%, and at the same time we are dropping the amount of demining and that is what is not good. Being a pyrotechnician might be one of the hardest and most responsible jobs. That's where you can make a mistake sometime. Milanovic can make a mistake every day, he will not suffer that day, he will suffer in the elections or Croatia will suffer..., but the government has increased its own 22% in the 2014 budget, while at the same time reducing just the budget cuts for this purpose. What's also a problem, the problem is labels. It says there are 13516, but I often remember that in some places we had a chance to see and some parts where we know who lives, these boards, and they're not where they're supposed to be. And it's certainly a review of the markings, it's one of the more important jobs that people who don't live in that space don't get into mine suspicious spaces, especially I speak to us in Baranja, Kopački rit and the places that are attractive to tourists. It's one of the most important things. Congratulations on the stands, congratulations on the education. I think we've done a lot of work through the Council for Prevention of Education, and I think that's very important. Your cooperation with the Hunting Union is important. We often had a chance to see the hunters get killed, and here we are this summer we had a chance in Ladislavci to see a prominent doctor in the minefield. So these are the problems we face every day that we don't talk about game, now we're talking about people who are our wealth, 235 were mine incidents, 314 were killed, 116 were killed, that's the number that's impressive. Human life has no price, therefore this very process needs to be accelerated. Looking at your 2012 program is 134.5 km, it was demining 69.8, again not enough because of the funds. And we're wondering today, the 21st Plan I've read several times, it's been written that it's going to increase demining funds. That's not happening. Well, I'd like at least in that part of Plan 21 if it had happened to keep what was promised. But if everything wasn't ideal, I'd ask you a few more questions. There is no mention of the establishment of a government demining office and its activities in particular in 2012 and how much money it spent. As much as he raised money from the EU, that's another question. That's where we need to arm ourselves if that office has raised the funds he spent at least as much money, that's good. If he didn't at least bring as much money as the office cost, then I think he should be lifted. That's the HDSSB's position. The second question that I am also interested in and my colleague Novak touched him, how many of the total number of specific projects in 2012 so I would like to hear it in 2013 resolved in the regular public procurement process and how much is the urgency and who are the legal persons, who were given these jobs based on this legal opportunity. We know there's a legal possibility, and we know these days that Roncevic is freed for trucks, we know. But I would like to hear the reasons for the urgency in 2012 not to say in 2013 or 2014 that we are in a hurry somewhere. I'd like the rush to write an increase in the budget of the Republic of Croatia 100% for mine extraction, and then I'd take that as a rush. Croatia has decided to complete the demining process, but the urgency of the HDSSB competition cannot support you in any hurry, please answer exactly how much such urgency was. What's definitely that is is that 627 pyrotechnics worked during the year 2012 but I'm interested in how busy capacity was because in numbers and when I watched I think we were almost twice or 30 miles of square demining and we could have 55, I read somewhere. So, insufficient was the engagement of these forces, and it's actually again because of the insufficient funds allocated for that purpose. Also another question, perhaps speculation can end, it should be asked, it is a new law, and is it true that the new legislation is being reduced again, the rights of pyrotechnics are being cut and why the general strike of pyrotechnics occurred during 2013 and will it be repeated in 2014 according to your assessment? I said, it's a responsible job, an important job, a job that can only be wrong once, and it's certainly important that those guys who do this responsible job are paid. What's our suggestion and there's been a debate these days is whether for pyrotechnicians and companies dealing with this business can they use blue diesel? It would be a great help and I think that both Linic and the government should review the decision and provide the possibility, just before Boro talked about donations related to VAT and donations, I ask the answer on behalf of the HDSSB but also when we talk about blue diesel and using exactly the blue diesel for 36 companies dealing with this job. Therefore, I said the HDSSB will support these reports. I would like to see more Osijek-Baranja County and the whole of Slavonia and Baranja in the 2014 plan to succeed by 2019 to demining the Republic of Croatia would indeed be happy but at this point I do not share that optimism and simply ask the answers to the questions asked. I thank you for your cooperation on behalf of Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja for their valuable work. I appeal on behalf of the HDSSB once again to the Government, expect budget rebalancing, and if any funds will be channelled, it is the administrative demining of agricultural areas, gardens, it is much more important than a colleague of those cell phones or those jeeps or all that we talked about when the 2014 budget was brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70031	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of interested in this. Finally on behalf of the motionary deputy, please choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70032	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, a lot of questions, a lot of wishes, but in one we are all in harmony, that we want our citizens as soon as possible, i.e. to give our families a peaceful life without this burden and without fear. So that's something I think the consensus is in us, and I see you've supported this report. However, in the life of each and every one of us and our communities there are some objective limits, and this is a situation in which, unfortunately, the world, Europe and our homeland are. The problem is always money, it needs all systems in our body, all our systems in our body need to enable today oxygen, and so all parts of our system, our community, should be allowed at least how much such resources to function as a community. The government wants and wants to solve this problem from before under objectively available means, the government has done everything, but the lack is because some other systems should also be maintained that they function at the moment that it is complex. This gap between lack of funds if we had enough resources, the issue would be resolved very quickly, but this gap I am trying to bridge through European funds, use of these funds, and Osijek-Baranja County is an excellent example of such work, and for that and for those people and you, sir, who come from that county, thank you. So, either he's gonna ask that question, and what was this solved before, and why wasn't the question solved there? It's hard to solve all the issues at the same time when you don't have enough money, but people professionally, people who do this problem, who live with this problem, have estimated that it's much better instead of these dispersed little, tiny projectiles, that something is constantly being solved, let's say now in one part of the country, so tomorrow we transfer the technique and the people to another part of the country, so that we do not lose money in that transport, dislocation of people, techniques, etc. They have estimated that it is better to clean these two counties, finish the story with them and allow next year in these other areas and your county, sir who you represent from the laborists, to allow there priority locations in a much larger range of procedures and the subsequent solutions. It's an operational issue, and we'll always be dissatisfied together, so why in that part of our community get rid of it and not us? But he'll get rid of it. By 2015, but nothing can be predicted in life, we can't predict if we wake up tomorrow, none of us have guarantees that tomorrow will be alive, but in the current situation, the planned situation, 2015 is the year when all the agricultural surfaces should be returned to purpose, we should also want and we will, and we will see what life and God give us, whether we will be able to do it. I remain the questions raised here in the debate, very interesting questions, from VAT and others, we are always free to talk outside this debate and I would thank you once again for all your proposals, questions, but there is always the possibility that even after the debate some questions may be discussed because it is difficult to give you the decoded, authentic answer at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70033	Thank you too, Deputy. Thank you and the principal. This concludes the debate, we'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70034	Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial spent for 2012. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2012. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? The conclusion was passed with 107 votes for and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70035	And now we move on to the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information – Confirmation of Rules of Procedure The Proposer of Rules of Procedure is the Commissioner for Information in accordance with Article 68. The law on the right to access information. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. We have Dr. Anamari Musa with us. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70036	Thank you very much. I welcome distinguished MPs and MPs. As the Commissioner for Information under Article 40, paragraph 1 has been adopted by the Rules of Procedure whose entry into force requires confirmation of the Croatian Parliament. In short, I'd just like to meet a body that's already familiar with that, given that today has already been about it. The law on access to information entered into force in March 2013 and governed the protection of the Constitutional right of citizens to access public information and re-use of information, to monitor the implementation of this law and to promote public and public law. The law has been passed in the framework of accession negotiations with the EU, it transposed the Reuse of Information Directive and it represents a key means of preventing corruption and because of all these roles and importance of legislators, i.e. the Croatian Parliament decided to entrust the function after years of wandering, so the function of entrusting the special independent body that actually oversees about 5.5 thousand public authorities in providing public information to citizens. Compared to earlier regulation, the functions of the commissioners have been strengthened, it has been added functions in relation to the agency that previously carried out the job and has in its hands a whole series of potentially effective instruments to protect citizens' rights and strengthen public authorities' responsibilities and thus curb corruption. In addition, by introducing a directive on the reuse of information into our legal system, it is possible for the Commissioner to act to strengthen the economic activity of legal persons and entrepreneurs and to carry out research because public information is now, therefore, allowing them to be used for both commercial and non-commercial purposes. So, as Commissioner, I was elected to this esteemed body on October 25th, and within the legal time limit, I submitted the Rules of Procedure to confirm it. I note that, on that day, the staff of the Agency took over from the Commissioner's office, four of them who had until then performed the protection of the right to access information, which would mean that the continuity of the protection of that right had been ensured, i.e. that the proceedings and the work had not been interrupted for a single day. In short, the Rules of Procedure are a fundamental act which regulates the internal structure, the way in which the institution works and the way in which jobs are planned and done, and other issues of importance for the work of the institution. I'll point out only the most important thing, and that's the internal arrangement, so the internal structure of the office is set up so that the office has two services. One deals with the protection of the right to access information, so he conducts a second-degree procedure, inspection controls submits an indictment proposal, issues an infringement order, and draws up draft acts. While the second service monitors and promotes the right to access information, ensures international cooperation, monitors and analyses the implementation of the law and particularly works on public education and promotion of rights. I note that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the General Service or the Secretariat are not envisaged, given that the transitional and final provisions of the law are laid down that administrative tasks for the Commissioner are carried out by the Agency which proved useful during this transitional period, however, it would like to point out in the future that it will need to be reconsidered because the office does not have a technical basis in terms of carrying out those tasks. And I would also say that my fellow commissioner as a single college body is discussing strategic and governing decisions, but the decision-making authority is in the hands of the commissioners. Thus, the institution is highly individualised and thus the responsibility of a clear location. Other provisions refer to the normal regulation in this type of act, i.e. employee status, office business, etc. I note that officials must be certified for access to classified data from the competent authority, i.e. the Office of the National Security Council. At the end of the Rules of Procedure, it provides for the adoption of rules to systematise jobs. This Regulation has already been prepared and will enter into force within 30 days of the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure. At the end of this last sentence, if you will allow me, I would like to point out that to perform these functions that are numerous if you look at the Rules of Procedure there are many. It is necessary to strengthen the capacity of this body in terms of ensuring a sufficient number of employees while most of the activities can be financed through European projects. The Commissioner has already received a green light that European projects, however, have been hitched to the implementation of these projects so far because the European Commission believes and rightly believes that 4 employees cannot implement European projects of this weight, the capacity of the office is insufficient. In this sense, in order to ensure full functioning it will still be necessary to both the Constitution and the law and then this Rules of Procedure implement in reality through capacity building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70037	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Sunny Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70038	Thank you very much, Mr. President. She'd immediately relate to what the Commissioner said. So how can we expect the Commissioner for Information to do his job when already at the beginning is obviously faced with sub-catacity in his office and as we heard he can't get funds from the funds. So we're going back to the beginning of the story, and I'm going to have to look back at it even though it's 21,00 hours on what we've been saying, and that's how the Commissioner for Information will be able to end, for example, the irresponsible public authorities who don't provide information, who are obliged to provide information under the Law on Access to Information, and that's what the Personal Data Protection Agency has done so far, so it's been said that it will be done precisely through the Commissioner or the Commissioner for Informing the Institute, I'm afraid that's not going to happen. In addition, the budget is in some way tied to the Commissioner's hand. There were European projections about the need of about 6 to 6.5 million kuna, I think it was requested 2, you got a million 300, you took over some of the people from the Personal Data Protection Agency, and I really don't know when and how this kind of capacity your office will be able to operate. So that's what we at the HDZ Club and problemed when this kind of separation just happened. So the Commissioner, or the Commissioner's decision, was made in October last year. I must say that the deadline for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure has been exceeded and Article 68, because the Commissioner had to deliver the Rules of Procedure to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days of the day of the elections in accordance with the provisions of that law. My question is very simple, why has the legal deadline for adopting the Rules of Procedure been exceeded, and why has the Ministry of Administration's opinion not been delivered since the 10th of January of this year with a Rules of Procedure that doesn't even have an explanation? Very briefly, of course, we will accept in the Rules of Procedure the way it is proposed, but we cannot take the impression that what you said before you even started working as an information commissioner, you were already denied the funds, for what is necessary for the office to really work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70039	Thank you, too. Here you go, Madam Commissioner, on behalf of the Proposer. Finally, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70040	Thank you, Mrs. Glavak, for your remarks and remarks. As for the submission of the Rules of Procedure, I submitted it on 11 December 2013, however, because of the procedure in the Assembly and the break for Christmas and New Year's holidays, the situation was simply delayed. The opinion of the Ministry of Administration was given to the Government, not the Commissioner, and we respected it, and I withdrew the Rules of Procedure and completed in accordance with the opinions that were respected. So the notes are all included. As far as funding is concerned, we are now looking at the budget rebalancing to provide an additional million and 300 thousand kuna with the existing million and 400 thousand kuna to have 10 employees and thus meet the conditions for obtaining these funds. So the projects are already approved, just waiting for a final signature that depends on capacity, but even without European projects, what needs to be had the capacity to solve complaints in a timely manner, to carry out inspection surveillance that we are not currently carrying out because we do not have inspectors and that all these other functions are being carried out, in particular what is required of us by the directive that we have introduced into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70041	Thank you, Madam Commissioner, and I want you to continue working well on the welfare of all of us. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. Have a good night, and I'll see you tomorrow morning. We continue with the 2012 report on the work of the National Science Council of the Republic of Croatia. Session interrupted at 21.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-11-0.u70042	The Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information-Confirmation. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information, which was submitted by the Commissioner for Information by the Act of 28 January 2014. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The decision was reached unanimously with 109 votes.
