ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88511	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We will discuss: - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 for the needs of national minorities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report pursuant to Article 37 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. On behalf of the applicant, the report will be explained by the Minister of Administration Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88512	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Last year, we had on the agenda a report on the implementation of the 2012 Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which was actually in the shadow of events surrounding the installation of bilingual panels in Vukovar, although the report did not refer to that year. The 2013 report should also cover these events, but given the danger of this topic being discussed with other topics dealing with the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. In the opening argument, I will not specifically refer to that point by retaining the right to take another word if it shows the need for discussion. Analysing the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided for by national minorities in the national budget for 2013 it can be concluded that activities have been carried out in all areas which have contributed to the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities provided by the Constitutional Law and other regulations. In 2013, an analysis of the constitutional arrangements for the exercise of the right to the equal use of language and letters of national minorities in local units was made which showed that in a certain number of local units the statutes were not at all or were not fully in line with the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary that appropriate measures should be taken in the next period towards these units in order to regulate their statutes, i.e. to elaborate on the right to the official equal use of the language and letters of national minorities. And we are expected to be complemented by the Law on the Use of Language and Letters in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. In 2013, there was a significant increase in the number of ID cards issued compared to the previous period, particularly for members of the Italian national minority. However, the level of exercise of the right to use the language and letter of the national minority in the procedures of the first and second instance before the administrative bodies of the self-government unit as well as in the proceedings before the judicial authorities in 2013 remained at a very low level and almost negligible, i.e. unchanged compared to the previous period. In the area of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is constantly ensured. In 2013, a successful education of students was carried out in the follow-up conducted in the language and letter of national minorities model A, and a trend was observed in increasing the number of students attending language and culture programmes of national minorities model C. Further shift is seen in the education and education of members of the Roma national minority. In 2013 compared to previous years, the increased number of users significantly increased the cost of funds for preschool Roma education. There is a constant increase in the coverage of children of Roma national minorities through primary education. More favourable criteria for enrolment in high school as well as significant funds provided for the payment of scholarships resulted in an increase in the number of Roma national minority students in secondary education. During 2013 in the exercise of the rights of national minorities to access the media, further shift has been made by the conclusion of the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 01 January 2013 to 21 December 2017, which among other things has been agreed on the programme obligations of HRT on production, co-production and publication of programmes intended to inform members of national minorities in the languages of national minorities, including programmes for children in the languages of national minorities. The analysis of activities carried out during 2013 aimed at ensuring the cultural autonomy of national minorities points to the systematic promotion of national minorities and their active and equal contribution to cultural life. A number of activities and activities have been developed and numerous programmes have been implemented that make a significant contribution to the Croatian cultural scene. In particular, publishing and library activities have been developed as an expression of a real media situation in which members of national minorities create, and the Republic of Croatia has achieved the largest material investment in minority heritage in 2013 in the protection of immovable and mobile monuments of culture. In doing so, special attention is paid to... the heritage of Serbs in Croatia, an objective Serbian Orthodox church that has more than 400 on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, local elections were held in May 2013 in which members of national minorities fully exercised their right to represent themselves in representative and executive bodies of local and regional self-government units in relation to representation of members of national minorities in state administration bodies, professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2013 compared to 2012, a rise in percentage share from 3.38% to 3.51%). This may also be due to a different way of determining the number of members of national minorities because by establishing a employee register, it could also be connected to the voters' register, and then instead of making a statement, we removed the data directly from the voters' register. The decision to ban new employment from 2009 and 2013 significantly limited employment in state administration bodies. In 2013 the number of units that ensure that members of national minorities are represented in their administrative bodies has been reduced slightly while the proportion of members of national minorities in judicial bodies remained relatively similar compared to the previous reporting period. In 2013, despite the unfavourable economic situation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia provided funding from the state budget for the financing of council programmes and representatives of national minorities in units of less economic development. The evaluation of the functioning of the councils and representatives may establish that there is still an insufficient involvement in public life and local affairs management, mainly due to insufficient cooperation between councils and representatives with local units and insufficient financial resources for work. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will take measures to raise the level of efficiency of councils and representatives, as well as local units, and in particular continue to hold education and seminars. After the National Strategy for Roma Integration for the period 2013 to 2020 was adopted in November 2012, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an action plan for the implementation of the national strategy and for the purpose of monitoring the implementation of the overall operational part of the strategy, the Commission for the monitoring of the implementation of the national strategy. A number of international activities related to one year were organized in 2013... The Republic of Croatia... for Roma inclusion 2005 – 2015, which began on 01 July 2012, and ended on 30 June 2013. Four international conferences and a session of the International Management Committee were held. Also during 2013 activities in the implementation of the project Support to Roma, phase 3, financed under the EU IPA Pre-Accession Assistance Programme 2008, and the project Support to local minorities under the EU IPA 2012 Pre-accession Programme, aimed at strengthening and facilitating the active and full participation of Roma national minorities in the economic, educational, cultural and social life of Croatian society. In the area of developing tolerance towards diversity and combating discrimination, the adoption of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights for the period from 2013 to 2016, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in April 2013. One of the priority areas of the national programme is the area of national minority rights. In 2013, campaigns were also carried out and numerous seminars, round tables and consultations were held that contributed to the further fight against prejudice and stereotypes and discrimination and segregation of national minorities. It can be concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia made efforts during 2013 with the aim of making fuller and ensuring the rights of national minorities more complete and ensuring that measures were taken by the competent authorities and continued activities in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The implementation of the Constitutional Law strengthened the implementation of measures under the Constitutional Law Action Plan, which were implemented in 2013 in a large percentage, 85.13%. In the coming period, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to implement the Constitutional Law in all areas. The implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2013 from the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia totalled 138 million 172 thousand 777 kuna and 3 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88513	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88514	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said that the government has made every effort to fully implement this Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, so, among other things, you said in a very fast report that over 9 million kunas have been spent to protect... objects... activities and programmes of institutions of national minorities, music and music. You forgot to say that out of these nine million kunas, the Serb national minority spent 5.5 million kuna on 60 programmes, compared to the year 2012, in which 2.5 million kuna was actually spent twice as much. Do you think that's appropriate in this economic situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88515	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88516	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. Two very specific questions for you. You said, among other things, that the expression of the real situation in publishing is shown in this report, or through the money provided for that purpose. My question is, has one case been reported to have had to return members, not to single out any national minority, funds allocated out of the state budget because, for example, they have insulted, belittled, and also discriminated particularly in the publishing of the majority or Croatian people? Secondly, you say that a number of activities have been undertaken as regards the Roma National Minority, and I ask you to answer my question whether you know that the Međimurje County or the Međimurje County Assembly made a request to the Government of the Republic of Croatia two years ago that three ministers, the Minister of Social Policy and Youth, the Minister of Home Affairs and the Minister of Education, Science and Sports, were directly involved in solving the Roma problem in Međimurje County. And my question is, why hasn't the promised meeting even been held to this day? Because I remind you of members of the Roma national minority most of them live in the County of Međimurje, we want them to integrate into society, we see that the state also provides a valuable asset. For example, so that the secondary education of members of the Roma national minority are entitled to a scholarship of five thousand kunas, so five thousand kunas per year each child, a member of the Roma National Minority gets a direct scholarship if they are enrolled in high school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88517	Leave the questions for the current morning, and this was a replica. Does he want a representative of the board? Yeah. President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88518	Thank you very much. At its 53rd session of 9 June 2014, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of the National Minority, the spending of funds secured in the state budget, and as a parent body. It has been pointed out that the same problems have been repeated for years or that there is still no significant progress in the fields of use of language and letter of national minorities to members of national minorities in state and local administrations and judicial authorities, access to national minorities through means of public communication, participation of members of national minorities in public life and local affairs management as well as when it comes to housing care and return. As regards the rights to use the language and letters of national minorities, it has been pointed out that there is almost no shift compared to earlier periods, and it is also the impression that the atmosphere in which this right should be realised in particular over the past years has deteriorated. Of the 27 units of local self-government in which members of national minorities have legal assumptions that they exercise their minority right to use language in them 17 statutes or 12 years after the adoption of the Constitutional Law, this issue is still pending, the right to be settled, and the question is not resolved by the statutes so that the rights are not and are not at all regulated or regulated in a way that would ensure that this right is realised in practice and implemented. That's for those of you who say there's no such thing as Vukovar alone. The report itself states that the level of exercise of the right of bilingualism in the procedures of the first and second instance before the administrative bodies of the unit of local self-government as well as in the proceedings before the authorities of the judicial authority in 2013 is very low and almost negligible, and that the public administration offices in the counties have not, as in the previous reporting period, reported any case of the exercise of the right to use minority language and letters in the procedures they have conducted. Over the past year, only three minority-language proceedings and all in criminal courts have been conducted. Why is that? Because there is no assumption that procedures are being conducted in minority language, but they are being conducted the same way with a Libyan citizen or for a representative of the Serbian or Italian national minority, it is the same procedure, so there is no bilingual procedure in courts and it should be clear already, therefore there are no conduct procedures. In addition, 97% of the IDs issued remain for only one national minority while others do not ask for IDs at all. That's because IDs should be real territory, not individual rights. Finally, examples of poor practices have been presented that do not contribute to a positive atmosphere not only in the media but also in the conduct of officials and bodies who are in direct contact with members of national minorities such as the conduct of election commissions in last year's local elections when voters were not sufficiently informed about the possibility of voting for minority lists or the behaviour of officials when members of national minorities want to change or supplement the information on national membership in voter records and make any possible difficulties. It is also not just the conduct of local self-government but other bodies. An example of non-compliance with the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities by the Croatian Roads, which, in addition to expressing legal obligations and requests of the units of local self-government, has not been setting bilingual written traffic signs and other traffic codes where the law requires them to be. There are still a number of problems in the areas of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, despite the results achieved. Substantially reduced means of translation of textbooks. All curricula, minority education programmes have not yet been adopted, and the registration of individual schools in minority language and letter has not yet been resolved, although the problem has been identified for 11 years. The data provided that 70 kuna per child was first provided in preschool education for 11 months, and now the funds are provided only in 8 months, which puts the exercise of that right at risk. Access to national minorities by means of public communications remains difficult. HRT still does not have a special editorial for national minorities, and its centres in areas where in a significant number of living members of national minorities do not have emissions for minorities. The distribution of funds to promote pluralism and diversity that was founded for national minorities today has been used by national minorities alone of 10%, the other 90% goes for a variety of other things. It is also indicated that the multi-year decline in material, financial assumptions for the achievement of minority rights. The funds for associations and institutions of national minorities have been steadily reduced since 2010, and the return of their nationalised assets is not resolved in addition to all promises. At the local and county level of the process, we'll skip it, that'll be said by other MPs. The housing of the returnees has been in complete stasis for many years, which completely discourages the return, and which best shows the report, according to which a total of 11 displaced persons have been returned from the refugee service throughout 2013. It has been estimated that there is no relevant attention in this problem in the day-to-day report. The situation of the Roma is also very problematic and complex. I'm not going to read the whole part that's worth the entire page, that's what my colleague Kajtazi will talk about later. The members of the committee in the debate have personally stressed, thus ending, that the development of tolerance towards diversity and the suppression of discrimination in direct connection with the exercise of the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities. Some of the unfulfilled rights, such as the practice so far, have not been blocked because of the lack of financial resources, but precisely because of the lack of will, motivation and willingness to tolerate diversity and the right to others. This is therefore a question that must be given greater attention in the next period. It is also stressed that to create a constructive atmosphere it is important to treat members of national minorities in countries where the Republic of Croatia has prescribed bilateral agreements on the protection of minorities. This issue is addressed to only a few sentences in contrast, as it is stressed on the one hand that the implementation of bilateral agreements pays constant attention, and on the other hand, it states that there was no activity related to meetings of mixed committees for minorities during 2013. There are also incomplete data relating to minority financing based on bilateral agreements. This cites the funds that Croatian minorities receive from the state budget for a total amount of 3 million kuna, but does not specify those funds that are allocated from the budget for individual minorities in Croatia based on these same agreements. Finally, after the debate was held, the committee decided, by a majority, 6 votes for and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88519	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Shandor Juhas and Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88520	Dear President, dear colleagues. One third of our club will support this report, although I believe there should have been more critical elements in it. The report is correctly written, a number of problems have been pointed out, as well as positive solutions that talk about the state of our society. Because the application of minority rights is not the application of the wishes of minorities, but a reflection of the will of the majority people and they give a certain community. I would like to commend at the beginning the relationship between the Council for National Minorities and the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities with the problem of all national minorities despite the fact that the funding of associations and institutions of national minorities has been reduced by about 18% in recent years and that they have been brought to the brink of functioning itself. I would also like to praise the fact that for the first time in a special chapter, the Ombudsman’s report determines the rights of national minorities, which will certainly contribute to the full view of this complex problem and bring quality and long-term solutions, to bring laws that will always be applied everywhere and without reserves and figs in the pocket. And that it is necessary for this problem to be fully and fully looked at and fair and given long-term solutions also tells the fact that the total Okay. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: A colleague of Juhas, just a moment. My colleagues and colleagues, please do not speak out loud, deconcentrate whoever speaks on behalf of the club.]] One-third of the club, yeah. There's three of us, and that's it. That's guaranteed, and we'll make a deal for the other one. So two-thirds we already have. Okay. It means that it is necessary to make a quality one solution and in the long term speaks itself of the fact of which the same minister spoke, that in the 27 units of local administration that are required to implement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. He says, in 10 cases, a rule of law has been incorporated in their statutes, 12 units are contained only in general provisions without detailed processing until 5 units of local self-government have not been determined at all, the exercise of the rights of national minorities is not regulated. So we can talk about not applying perhaps the most significant minority law and the harsh violation of the constitutional law. As for education in the letter and language of national minorities, I would like to welcome the minister's decision to allow the enrollment and formation of a class in those minority environments and those minority schools that have fewer students than prescribed. However, it is necessary that the decision be maintained, that it does not change every year and that students can then sign up for sure something, that their parents know that the institution will work until their children finish the course. The question of textbooks and programs themselves needs to be considered. Because it is nice to write that the number of students per model C has increased, however, these curricula and programmes should also be provided to schools that implement it. I think there is room for lifelong learning, not only for members of the Roma national minority, but also for extra-institutional and very significant forms of education of national minorities financed through the ministry, such as summer schools and other forms. In the report, I also objected to the committee that not all religious communities were included. In Croatia, there is a well-organised Protestant community, so I think it should have been included in this report, too, before it received significant funds over the past period and that numerous facilities of this community were restored. As far as access to the means of public communication is concerned, I think there's a lot of space here, too. The funds of the Media pluralism Fund and the diversity of electronic media and are allocated without consultation and opinion of minority representatives. So then we have a situation that minority radio, meaning it's meant for this particular minority and it's established that it gets about as much funds or less funds from a radio station in the local community where there's a negligible number of members of that national minority for which the programme is being broadcast. As far as cultural autonomy is concerned, I am not particularly pleased with the achievement of cultural autonomy, although the largest number of members and the largest number of activities of the Hungarian community are related to that area. In addition to the restoration of sacral objects and reformed churches by the Ministry of Culture and Programmes related to the Council for National Minorities and the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I feel that the other institutions do not understand or understand the issue of national minorities. I have a custom to say so we didn't fall from Mars and we're part of this country, our culture is an integral part of Croatian culture, our values are also the values of the areas we live in. Croatia is also our country and then there is not much logic that when we write a quality program and they answer us that it is a minority issue and that we address the Council for National Minorities. As for the representation of members of the national minorities, I would say just a few words here about Baranja after I come from there and most Hungarians live there. In the past 23 years, Baranja has been fueled, devastated and economically destroyed. Do not remember that such poverty, misery, misery, and what ever ruled. It has about 35 to 40 thousand inhabitants, and the eviction is huge. It's amazing what's going on, young people leaving the area mass, jobs almost gone and fighting for every job is huge and ruthless. In this struggle, the first minorities are more or less affected by the first, and the others are normally killed. Most Hungarians like I said live in Baranja. More than 50% of our population is there. And if it's about minorities, then it's usually about Italians in Istria, Hungarians in Baranja. However, what kind of representation is ours speaks and the very fact that in the Baranian municipalities and there are 8 of them along with the town of Beli Manastir we have 5 employees who speak Hungarian, of which 3 in the Prince's vineyards. We can talk about the law, we can talk about whether we have the right or we don't have the right but it's something more than that, it's a democratic achievement of a community, some local self-government and its aspirations to present itself as an orderly community, a democratic community. The team before each of these municipalities has and maintains relations with Hungarian municipalities, Hungarian cities, football clubs with football clubs, firefighters with firefighters etc. And what may be most important of all, they are all trying to make some economic progress and they are starting to write and they are involved in different European funds where they are usually partners from Hungary and the Hungarian environment and they do not know the language and do not know the language. And I think that's enough fact means that of the 8 units of local self-government in 5 of them we have people who understand Hungarian and who can do something about that economic development and connect with those other units of local self-government. As far as councils and representatives are concerned, I'd have the same little remark. So I think it's necessary to address the issue of Council and Representative financing. It is left at will to local units and there are absurd situations. The Hungarian National Minority Council of Osijek-Baranja County for its work gets about 90 thousand kuna from the county and thank them for that. However, there is 50% of the Hungarian population, and at the same time we have councils in some environments where there are far fewer Hungarians or members of our minority who receive 500, 600 thousand kuna for their work. Also, some counties assign 30, 40,000 kuna to their representatives, and some have nothing. I think there's something we can do about it. Am I overstepping?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88521	Well, I must say another third, Mr. Representatives, will support this report. So we came to two-thirds, 66%, if he's here, Don Grubisic, she'll be 100% and a third third. But what do you say, what's the status? I would say there are minorities and minorities in Croatia. If every year in this country we didn't have any choices or if we didn't have some re-elections, some referendums I think the situation would be anywhere and where better. When opportunities around the Serb minority in Vukovar began to deteriorate rapidly. First of all, before the re-elections that took place a few months ago, it was all a pre-election show with an act of anger against bilingual records, but it was my impression that people still felt that it was politics, not real politics, and that everything was somehow under control. And finally, be assured that Mr. Penava's current mayor will have to implement everything the Constitutional Law provides. They will simply have to because the Constitutional Law cannot apply to one another in one way and to others in another way. On page 5, it is said that the above analysis found "that members of a particular national minority constitute at least a third of the local population in 27 units of local self-government." However, if due to historical circumstances, civilization circumstances make it possible for the environment to apply bilingualism. I say, just before Mr Furia mentioned, there are still fresh wounds and this war exodus, say the Italian population from Istria, Rijeka, Zadar but not only Italian, 186 thousand people in the period 47th, 54th, leaving those premises and leaving the Italian route, 130 thousand is optanans, about 40,000 in that number is Slavic population, Croats, Slovenians up from Buzetina. And I stress that it is still 5236 people who have been released from Yugoslav citizenship, of which 3,000 had some property, which is now in the first parentele somewhere around 1,000 and they have the right to return property. But it doesn't work, people die and disappear clearly. And then we have one problem, clearly the optant has no right to return property because it's settled by international contracts. But these 5236 circuses about 500 to 1,000 people certainly do. But you can see these in a single Europe in Europe without borders can't get to what was once their own, which is what generations and generations created but that's why local officials who insult common sense, for a kuna per square they can get up to 5, 6, 10, 15, 20, 25 acres and then they can take over for nothing, urbanize, above they can predict tourist checkpoints and what they get for 1,000, 2000 or 10,000 kunas for so much per square. And is that a contribution to solving minority issues? Come on, somebody's gonna say it's cynicism, but it's one real truth. I don't see why it's a problem to respect other people's rights in his language or his letter, why would he be a problem, for example? Bishop Milovan or Bishop Kutleš, who is from Bosnia and Herzegovina waving or waving and in Italian, has no problem. However, the people respect them, accept them as their own, and therefore appreciate them even more. I don't know why Mrs. Shuci was the same problem Mrs. Bratusek was singing Bandier Ross. But let's let it go now, I know it's not the same today to talk about Istria, that it's not the same thing today to talk about the River and Vukovar, or some other parts that were affected by the war. But I'm also going to say that after World War II there was nothing better in Istria than it was in Vukovar 15 years ago. So again, man is a man, not for the evil of that Italian-born person, but for the large-scale politics of the time, as it was for the foybes, it wasn't for that little man of ours, it was for one remandist policy towards that previous policy. So if we want to turn the national issue into a political issue then happiness will not be the other way around. I think about Vukovar, this is where you speak on page 7 and 8, the government was absolutely doing the right thing. It is interesting to draw out these bilingual cards, as a rule only to the Italian community while Serbs are generally "pragmatic" will not be on two-letter cards, and why because I am simply afraid to say a kind of rematch that could bring it. The Roma have moved a lot for the better, but I think they need more help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88522	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replications to the presentation of colleagues from Shandor Juhas. Here you go, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88523	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Juhas, you said that the rights of the national minorities depend not on national minorities but on the majority people, saying that only one third of the clubs will accept this report, and at the same time you forget that the scope and level of the exercise of the rights of national minorities in Croatia are actually at the highest level, which is almost unknown in others, and not only in European countries. If you may know a country in our environment that does it in a better and different way, I would like you to tell us or one that can serve us as an example. Are you satisfied with the allocation of funds or not, you said that you did not, but you forget that from the cultural autonomy programme through bilateral cooperation the National Minorities Council paid 2.3 million kuna, of which, in our Constitution there are 22 national minorities, you received 400 thousand kuna and the Italian national minority 1.9 million kuna. I don't know by what criteria and why, for example, the rest of the national minorities didn't get those funds, and if those national minorities even know that you, let's say, got these funds from 20 of them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88524	Replication response, Shandor Juhas. Turn on the mic, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88525	I'll start with this bilateral agreement. Yes, they know other national minorities and this report is public, and every year the National Minority Council brings a work programme based on criteria and methodology and is publicly published on the Internet and on the official list, which is why, for which purposes these funds are allocated and I don't think there should be any problem, that is from the National Minority Council's resources. There are bilateral agreements with some countries, with some countries, there are no, with the Republic of Hungary and, as I know, with Italy there are signed bilateral agreements and it is in my opinion fine and it is fine... members of the Council and it has worked so far and I hope that for the implementation of the programme, it will be programmes, the Council funded programmes and means, in addition to these programmes will continue to be allocated these funds as it is allocated to others, meaning communities, the Hungarian community. I absolutely agree with you that Croatia's legislation has far gone from perhaps other countries, other neighbouring countries, but I don't think there should be much discussion here either. I said that the right is either minority rights to that extent or that they can be realized to what extent the majority people give them. It's not a taste of desires, it's a taste of possibilities and what most people give you. Therefore, if we have greater rights and we enjoy greater rights here than in neighbouring countries, then it is most likely because the Republic of Croatia is more democratic and better decorated, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88526	Thank you. Clear Mesic, replica. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88527	Dear fellow, I just wanted to replicate about the part where you spoke about the representation of minority communities, or minorities related to the media, something Mr. Radin said when he mentioned HRT and something about it was said by the minister in the opening statement when he mentioned the program contract. You also mentioned a fund for... the media. And then you finally said that minorities have as many rights as it gives them the majority people. So I would add to that and how many elections we are going to have because very soon we will have the HRT report, we will have a report from the Programme Council, we will have a report on the implementation of the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am deeply interested in how you will react to this HRT report when the Council for National Minorities, Mr... even once said that they will call on members of national minorities not to pay a subscription, because they do not respect the rights of national minorities to be equally represented on HRT or in accordance with the contract, which is stated by Mr. Minister, I am very interested in giving 'when we are going to make an electronic media council, when we are going to discuss HRT here, will you then be so critical and not vote for that report. Because it is evident that what HRT should need is not respected in the programming sense. I think we should do that. In that variant, and then really minorities will have as many rights as you say, how many majority Croatian people in this sense give, through their political apparatus, through their political apparatus, but also as many representatives of minorities for this election. If we're talking about it now, that's not good, and we accept everything that comes from HRT here, then we have double criteria and double standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88528	Replication response, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88529	Well, I wouldn't say that we have double criteria and double standards, and here we are, and now at last session of the National Minorities Council, we had exactly one point that was related to the achievement of our rights in electronic media. And I can say that we also expressed this much of our dissatisfaction there, as I know, Mr... was on TV the other day, talking there with... television and I think there's going to be some progress. When I was talking about the fund for... the media, when a man looks at so little who's got it, which he's got for some shows, etc., then he's a little surprised. As far as I know, my senior colleagues have explained to me, that this fund is actually made up for the fact that national minorities would come to funding in a certain way and then start funding these programmes. It seems like you've turned it into something else now, but I don't want to talk about it because I haven't been around long enough to be able to deal with the relevant facts. But it bothers me to say, as I said, that a minority radio station gets as much resources, beware, a minority radio station, means all its program, the whole day's program it has, implements in the language of that national minority. So, there's no show, there's going to be, I don't know, I don't know that now there's going to be five minutes, 10 minutes, an hour, half an hour, or I don't know, but all of its program is being broadcast in the language of the national minority gets as much money as one radio station that broadcasts a national minority in the language of 15 minutes or over 20 minutes, and in the area of that local community there are several members of that national minority. So that's where some changes are to be made, and that's where we propose to listen to the voice of the national minority, and that I absolutely agree with you that how much we can fight, how much we will fight, how much you will give us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88530	Thank you very much. To the presentation of Damir Kajina replica Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88531	When it begins to bid on the numbers of exodus although the context that Damir Cain was talking about is so I would talk about, but when it comes to numbers it's always wrong. The aforementioned exodus of 180 thousand Italians disagreed with what Joseph Broz Tito said about the problem, and that was the one who drove them out 350 thousand. Now, if I have to believe and if I have to decide whether I trust Damir Cain or Joseph Broz Tito, I'm in a big problem, so I sit down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88532	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88533	Well, the exodus problem is much more complex. It's not just that post-revolutional primitiveism the reason why one component of Istria left, I mean dominant of this Slavic population, there were those who didn't accept the regime, there were these photons that also happened after that, there was also Italian propaganda that everybody was saying, so we're all going back, there was church policy. Because you must know that in '47, all the Italian clergy headed by Bishop Radosi as well as other bishops in Rijeka or down Zadar leave those premises, that's when we didn't have television, radio, etc. It was the same strong message. And when I talk about 186,000 people who in two exodus in the first '47, the second of '54 left Istria I speak and I refer to the figures that were presented at that time by leading Croatian demographic or Yugoslav still Mr. Žerjavić, and these figures were based on the data of the MUP or the then SUP I don't know what it was called. And he's saying that 90s and some thousands of people with children are somewhere around 130 and a few thousand, that somewhere around 40,000 people have escaped which is not in those records and then lists other figures and the ones I know by heart of 5236 people who have been released from Yugoslav property whose fate was nationalization and who today have the right to return the same. Therefore, whether we trust Tito, whether we trust Gerjavić or the official data of the MUP is now another question, but this historic injustice towards the population of Istria and Istria should be corrected as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88534	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88535	Dear Mr. Cain, you said in your presentation that acting is the anger of the local population about placing bilingual panels in Vukovar and then you said that the law must be respected about 1/3 of the population, or using their language and letters, and you immediately compared it with Istria and bilingualism in Istria knowing that you do not have 1/3 of the population in Istria but you have the use of language and letters. And no, if that's what the locals agreed on, the local self-government units why not. The problem that has been tied up in Vukovar is either deliberately forgotten or you do not know that and because of this, the Constitutional Court reacted and made its decision since the 12th August of this year in which it says "to prescribe either for the whole area or for certain parts of the city of Vukovar individual rights of members of national minorities to the official use of their own language and letters". Similarly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer this decision to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities within one year of the publication of this decision, which it does not, of course, continue to lay down bilingual panels. And you remember that we have been constantly talking about respecting Article 8 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities because of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples develop and understand, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among them and that this is the problem. The government deafens itself to this, not even talking about it, but continues to insist on setting up bilingual panels in Vukovar in a violent way that is not good and challenging.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88536	Thank you. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88537	The absolute decision of the Constitutional Court as "the only" interpretation of the only one under the quotes of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly needs to be respected. However, I personally believe that the government has done the right thing by quoting it "has strongly condemned the incidents that took place during 2013 to post bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar. As a legal state, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure full exercise of the rights of members of national minorities or consistent application of the Constitutional Law," I fully agree with that. I also want to say that there are opportunities in Istria in '45. They were the same, and maybe worse than they were in Vukovar in '95. A year. And I only hope for one thing, that no more policy after this has happened in 2013, the fourteenth will not use minority issues for political purposes. And in what was happening in Vukovar, I first of all recognize a policy that preceded those early elections that took place a few months ago. It's sad, but that's what happened in my court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88538	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88539	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and on the spending of funds, we members of the national minorities are constantly pushing, so we comment on our position, and reports are being written each year and more and more seem to be like the so-called copying. Resor's copying school. When we compare the report for last year, last year we do not see any fundamental differences except a few statistics, and then eventually we find out what the amount of minority rights achieved is related to an equivalent called budget money, and that's what we meet. Some say you got a lot of money, some say we got a little bit, and nobody here is talking about some basic things, and that's the social climate and the mood for really real implementation and enabling the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. However, daily and monthly and annual events confirm that this is the case, i.e. to deny all those who say that the amount of minority rights is high, that these are standards that no one in almost Europe has. That's not exactly the way it is, and it's the minority that we're supposed to be the first consumers of it we don't really feel. So we see that this report has a state of mind and, in some ways, about employment and about education and information issues, they're always the same topics. Every little, every half year we warn about HRT's behavior and then we say what the problems with HRT are. It's not just the amount of money that's being allocated for information, it's the essence. Whether the public service respects the contracts, contractual obligations and obligations it has made to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to form minority redactions, to make quality emissions that will not only deal with the folklore of national minorities who will in some way articulate the problems of the minority community and tell the majority people these are the problems of the minority community. Of course there's a media pluralism fund, of course we know how to manipulate the funds there. We have the information and we said that in the debate on HRT, we have exactly how many radio stations in their programs are processing issues of minority, or minority issues, and how much funds they withdraw. So I'm talking about the manipulation of certain media with these means at the expense of minority issues. But that's not a direct topic right now. It's only one part of the contents of this report. So that's what we're talking about. We also often talked about employment as a crucial issue not only of the minority, of course, and of the majority people. But when we talk about the employment of minorities, there are certain extra commitments that someone has made, there are action plans that we have taken and there is a fact that if in some state administration no matter what the employment ban is, if someone goes to some state administration, it's logical to expect it, and he's a member of a minority community. In particular, if a colleague has a member of the Hungarian community there to work so as to communicate easier with members of the Hungarian people why not the same minority community comes to his place. Who's he jeopardizing? Is this one job that raises the issue of the country's employment strategy? No, it's about the good will to do it. We insist on these things. When it comes to not talking about justice, let's not talk about the State's Attorney's Office, let's count the number of members of the national minorities in the State's Attorney's Office in the last 10 years. In the judiciary, how many judges are employed? Don't we have the right to be participated in such serious matters? Aren't we part of this system? So we would like to be the backbone of this system, a positive healthy spine through intellectual things, not through affairs and through hate and through some sensational things that are constantly being directed to us. When it comes to education, it is evident that great data here are very well done, that is to say, how many members of national minorities attend kindergartens, how high, how many elementary schools by A, B, C model. It's all exact old. However, what we persistently say as members of the Serbian community of the state has created a legal framework for education by one, the second and the third model, has allocated correct resources. However, when you reach a lower level to implement it in life, when you reach a founder named County, the county says no, we will not register. It persists for 20 years that have the legal right to register as minority schools. It's basic schools in the east, and it's blocked by Vukovar-Srijem County. So most councilmen always vote against it. So that's where we need to systematically find another solution, the founder must be someone else, there can't be a county. So there has to be someone to control it in a different way. I am talking about programs, we have left out textbooks not only a number of significant members of the Serbian community who have made miles of this culture, who have built Croatian culture and other, Hungarian and Slovak, etc. They're gone. But when it comes to programmes, we have an interesting guide, one instruction from Minister Matic, who says it is mandatory for students of all 8th grade 2 days to attend Vukovar in order to experience fresh history and permanently remember. I agree that there is a need to give the pate to the victims of Vukovar, so no one is against it for God's sake, but does Mr Matic think that this will produce the right effect? You have to be there for two days. So is that Kumrovac 1 and 2? Instead of explaining to your parents, and if you were to choose to give your children, I believe the effect would be much greater. This way you have resistance in the east, people say we won't be ordered to send children there for two days. Is that an educational measure? Are we talking about education, protection, education of national minorities? I repeat, with all due respect to the victim's piety, no one is against it, but the way it was ordered reminds us very much of some past time. When we talk about an issue called equal use of language and letter, I have no intention of opening the topic of Cyrillic, it has been absorbed in many different ways for a long time, but I must conclude that still in all local units after the census there are no corrected statutes, not in accordance with the law, with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And the management didn't carry out surveillance, so she'd extend her mandatory surveillance for six months until the chiefs met with the matter. So it takes the commissioners six months after the election to get acquainted with their legal obligations. And today we have a situation that this is not harmonised, and we are talking about respecting the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. I could also speak to my colleagues, Babiæ, so I think if the Constitutional Court delegates the provisions of one part of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities in your decision that you quoted, and I don't want to comment on it because I'm opening other topics, then I have nothing more to say. When it comes to participation or the councils of national minorities, there are a variety of experiences. I completely agree with a colleague who said that the basic thing is the unequal funding of the National Minorities Council. Our experience suggests that these councils have become purely formal councils, that they do not have a basic function to be some sort of correction of government to local self-government when it comes to issues related to minority community issues. In practice, this would mean that if the County Assembly has on the agenda a topic related to the problems of the minority community must receive the preliminary opinion and consent of the County Council of National Minorities. Who's doing this today, after 10 years of applying this law? We keep the whole thing in shape. We'll give them so much money, they can finance their own cultural events, let them dance, let them worship, etc. and we democratically fulfilled our obligation, we gave money to the councils of national minorities. That is not what the legislator wanted when he formed, when he regulated the establishment of the Council of National Minorities by law. Therefore, neither the system has the will to put this into function properly, and indeed neither the members of national minorities have the basic knowledge nor the will to use the Council of National Minorities in the way it is imagined. We have the condition we have today. In the end, we see that there could be a number more topics, and there's no time, we see that this whole story, because the title is also financial resources, this whole minority story of ours is about as much as I've written down the cost of about 138 million kunas in various distinctions as it is for religious communities and forming, etc. Thus, the budget of the Republic of Macedonia costs de facto along with a part of the renovation cost about 138 million kuna. What is the percentage of the Republic of Croatia's budget? As we can say, what is the percentage of the participation of educational shows with minority themes in the public service programme. So you'll come up with catastrophic data. I'm not gonna talk about housing, that's a lot of talking. I'll say the fact that often some other factors limit housing. We've got the behavior of an institution called HEP that comes back after 10 years off the clock, takes off the watch and says you can turn yourself back on if you pay 11,000 kuna. You need to tell that poor guy don't even come back because HEP took your power. And here we are talking about system projects that cost the state so much and so much. And we're falling for ordinary, banal things that happen in a bar at the bottom of some kind of command pyramid. And now I'm going to use a few minutes for just one fact, to get to know you, I feel the need to get to know you. So we're talking about some standards, we're talking about the protection of minorities, minorities are our wealth. And then you show up in the town of Bela Manastir one flyer that's been circulating for two months, in 2014. A guide to how Croats should live with Serbs. It's an amazing thing! I couldn't believe it, but it was given instructions, say, so the lenses went into the mailboxes. If you sell the apartment, house or country, do not sell it to the Serbs at least offer more prices. If even a Serb customer and an honest man are not sold to him, it is impossible to predict the integrity of his offspring. When you need to hire some workers in your company, do not hire Serbs because it enables them to be strengthened. Avoid shops, service and manufacturing workshops owned by Serbs. Don't hang out with Serbs, don't be friends with them because that's how you avoid their entry into Croatian folk tissue. Otherwise, the lamentation is that the biological survival of Croats in Baranja has been brought into question. And as a lesson in how to get out of it, this is a letter that orbits the white monastery. He says let's not leave our villages, settlements and land because if someone has to leave, let them go, they need to create such living conditions for them to want to go. And now, in the end, it is said that it would be best for them and for everyone above that they go where their ancestors came from and that's in Serbia. I could have a cynical comment here and say if all those who came to Baranja in 64 went further then my colleague Juhas Shandor and I wouldn't be a minority in Baranja. But it's not my level of conversation and thinking. And finally in the signature are some exiled Croats and read this text, remember and forget who you got it from, just chew it up and swallow it like it used to be in partisan time. So, so much for one social climate, what treatment should be given to members of national minorities. My colleague told me, she says, I respect extremely, she says it would be best if we were all citizens of Croatia. Of course, I think so, and there's no need to point out my minority identity, but every little thing like this gets me back to the beginning of the story, sobers me up and says no, no. It's still not the time for these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88540	We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88541	Dear fellow Horvat, you spoke at the beginning of your presentation about the relationship of Croatian broadcasting to minorities. And that's when you said that Croatian radiotelevision mainly deals with minority folklore. I agree with you, he doesn't deal with essential problems, minority folklore. However, Mr Horvat in many segments deals with Croatian broadcasting and other media folklore instead of dealing with problems that plague most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian Radio Television, you and some other MPs wondered whether it fulfilled the obligations under the contract signed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't work, which is why we've been looking for a few parliamentary deputies to shift the principal, and I don't know how you voted for it at the time. Croatian broadcasters not only fail to meet contractual obligations but Croatian broadcasting does not fulfil the basic functions of public television set by BBC long ago, which is public television. So it's the third, fourth or tenth commercial TV in Croatia. Croatian broadcasting according to everything and according to the programme, and especially with regard to the information programme is moving along Lenin's "Step forward, two steps back."
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88542	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88543	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm in a lot of shares in this public service's work with you. In the end, we said it very critically when we talked about the work analysis, so in the regular reports and we didn't accept them. That is why we pointed to this attitude towards topics related to members of national minorities, especially in the way of funding certain emissions where we even pointed to a factor in manipulation. What I was saying, therefore, is that certain media are taking state money to fictitiously display, or to display, certain minority emissions. And that's a dangerous thing, otherwise we never really talked about it, we didn't get under the skin of that whole problem. I'm afraid that's where you'd find out. And it's my finding, that public service is obviously just the most urgent moment when it's time to put a stop to people's accounts for the unpaid two wars. So, and that's something that, I told them, they wonder as well it's a legal obligation. I agree, but today in a situation where pensioners have 1,500 kuna pensions and block his card that he can't live because he hasn't paid two wars per 80 kuna is an inadmissible thing for me, an inadmissible behavior of a public service that's not a private service, which is public and we're setting his game rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88544	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88545	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Horvat, a year ago we had a break in the Parliament because an anonymous postcard with a very ugly content came in. Such postcards, such content you have very much on social networks, and even this pamphlet of yours at the end, it's not the level of this high home and it could have been written by anyone. Maybe you can finally tell us who's standing in the name and last name. You said something that might have been avoided by the exiled Croats. But I will return to your debate, what you were actually talking about and said that you, that the level and extent of the rights of national minorities do not feel in the Republic of Croatia. And I have to tell you I'm sorry, I'm sorry about that. I won't elaborate much on textbooks, education, programs A, B and C, I won't even talk about it even though I should. When you talk about the representation of national minorities in representative and representative bodies, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the attorney's office, at the same time you forget, and it's hard to find these data, that we don't know about the representation of national minorities in this higher house, that we don't even know in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that we don't know in agencies, that we don't know in funds. And that number would certainly, certainly, be different, be much larger. You mentioned it for credibility and I appreciate that the national minorities through these funds received 138 million kuna from the Republic of Croatia and you said that one part of the funds was reduced, of course due to the economic difficult opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. I'll just tell you that through the Office for Human Rights and National Minorities, and that is not clear to me, let's say the Serbian National Council in the Republic of Croatia has received 7.5 million kuna, that it has won the Vukovar Municipality community 1.5 million kuna, that it has been spent on 32 million kuna education, for cultural autonomy 36 million kuna, and for comparison I'll tell you that the Croatian national minorities in 12 European countries have only 3 million kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88546	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88547	Thank you. My dear colleague, when I spoke, I read this pamphlet, as you said, he is essentially a pamphlet to me. I'm sorry I had to finish today's subject with this pamphlet, but that pamphlet upsets people. You don't live in such an environment and you can't, you don't have the perception of the scale of this kind of game with people. That's why I read, to warn that no one has the right to play with such things in the Republic of Croatia. No matter who it's about or whose address this went to. It happened to go to the Serbian community's address, the Serb national minority. And it's a very ugly feeling when you know that in one environment it's written about you like this and it talks like this. With regard to the funds, of course, this entire report is about the funds, and I think that this kind of report should separate the category of implementation of one constitutional law from the category of money because if we tie this to the money, the meaning of this first one will be lost, so the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the institute that it should implement. Of course, on the team, we could analyze where all these expenses went, somewhere there was a lack of funds, somewhere it might have been given more than needed, but someone's taking care of it. You were talking about the eternal issue of how much the Serbian National Council received, I must say here, the Serbian National Council is a roof organisation of the Serb minority council in the Republic of Croatia. It's a roof organization. So that's not... It's burning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's not... It's all working, it's getting worse. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's not any private organization and if... over 100 branches, then I guess there's also expenses for your work. And someone who has approved these funds has entered into the criteria on the basis of which these funds are allocated. As to SNV, so..., so to the associations of other national minorities within these 38 million kunas as far as the council approves. The council has passed a series of audits and no irregularities have been observed...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88548	Thank you. Furio Radin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88549	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, I understand what you said and I don't think these are individual cases. We've had these same cases for years, and even today, it's not rare for someone to tell us, go where you came from, and when the crisis is and when the cake is smaller, it's going to be more and more. It's always connected to some of the economic things that they want to achieve. And that we understand ourselves, in that, when it is a crisis, all the peoples of the world are the same, it is not a feature of Croatia at all, it is all the peoples. When you say it weaker, you listen, if you speak Italian, it happens to us, go where you came from. Then we go home because we came from home because we've always been there. And that's what people who came almost five minutes ago tell you, that's not what the Istrians who know, who are with us, are our families, who have been with us for so many years. That's what people tell us who came in five minutes and tell us that we, not them, are going from where they came from. They're people who are against bilingualism, they're people who don't see well that there's bilingualism on the ipsilon, they're people who don't see well that he has Italian schools or that he has an Italian show. That's right. Let's not push that thing away because this thing, because this unfortunate crisis continues, will continue and increase further. Let's not push that thing, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88550	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88551	Dear Madam Vice President. My colleague Mile Horvat, a replica, I think that good has been achieved in Croatia, that a high level of protection of national minorities, a high level of national minority rights has been achieved, and if something is wrong, there should be a continued future, and there should be no debate at all, because I don't think there are any more questions in terms of any real problems in Croatia. We have, Mile, in Croatia, given the highest level of protection of national minorities in Europe. I will not declare myself about Asia either China or South Korea or North, but in Europe the most, in Croatia, protected national minorities. And what's missing, should be given and fixed. Make things right. But what I'm reacting to is, let's say, your letter. I'll give you a positive example. In Solta, a Serb from Belgrade came to me now this summer and works the house,... hence, the man is pleased here. We also have positive examples. If you don't believe it, bring the TV, come to me and you'll see. I mean, I want to talk that way, but what I answered the line for, you say, let's count how many representatives of national minorities are in the state's attorney's office. I'm telling you that in the state institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the government, the Parliament, the ministries, there are so many national minorities that some institutions wouldn't be ashamed of being in terrorism. I would prefer Croatia to be run by one Serb at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and run by Croatian politics, not... which is run by Vesna Pusic, because this ministry could, therefore, be called the Ministry of... affairs,... according to the content it runs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88552	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88553	Dear fellow, I will only replicate on that first part of yours. So the level of protection of minorities in the Republic of Croatia are nominally, therefore, legitimately set to a very high standard, a very high level and I did not deny it. And we even whenever we are in contact with members of national minorities outside the Republic of Croatia when we go to Serbia when we talk to the Council of Vojvodina Croats we always say Croatia has high standards but only on paper because I cannot tell you that if the county obstructs law enforcement, then it is not a high standard because on paper it is so. Finally, because of these high standards, we got some preferences when we were entering the EU, so we said here are the minorities that are legitimately covered. And when you come to a municipality when you come to a municipal court when you come to a local level, then you see how much that is not so and how much more social hygiene is needed, it happens that they accept the fact that there are some minorities and that they have even more exclusive rights, so they are minorities, that they are not minorities they wouldn't need more exclusive rights than the majority people. Well, nothing is dangerous, it's just a matter of society's sensitivity whether they recognize it and raise it to a certain level or not. What you said from Belgrade is like that, I wish it were like that everywhere, I support it. I wish that communication between people would finally be what you just said after 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88554	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88555	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvath, it's war when we look to say some universe and it lasted relatively short about five years. But the consequences and wounds heal for a very long time and what you've said is happening to some flyer, he's not signed. To heal these wounds in order to have some kind of relationship that you're talking about and that you want, it really takes a relatively long, long, or many years. But what you were saying about public television believe me that even the majority of the Croatian people are not satisfied with public service, public television. You have folklore on one side and on the other, and the right topics and the right programs don't actually exist. I don't understand what you want with schools visiting Vukovar, you're saying it's a provision to be in Vukovar for two days. Do you want to be three days or more, I don't know how much you want or to be one day, I don't know I didn't realize well enough. But the provision that Croatian school students visit Croatian shrines, sites and battlefields is a good provision for me. I don't know why you have anything against it. The programme that our founders have written in history says that the Homeland War has erupted or arisen because of the increased dismissal of Serbs from work and the emergence of radical Chetnic groups in Serbia. Against this I do not see that anyone has stood up even though such a definition of the beginning of war in Croatia is catastrophic, and this is written by the Croatian publishing house Profil and Mrs. Snježana Koren in the signing of it. That's not where you objected against that and that definition. And when we talk about the biological survival of Croats in Baranja, believe me, the entire Slavonia is biologically endangered along with all its minorities and majority and minority nations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88556	Thank you. The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88557	My colleague Grubisic, when we talked about television public service, so I would like to see a strong businessman, a strong businessman, and a member of the national minority, shown in that public service. So that's what I was talking about. We don't need so many folklore anymore, we've already consumed a lot of cultural dimensions, let's see if there's a community, and I say there are very strong businessmen in the community, strong scientists, cultural workers, writers, etc. In that direction, I was saying that public service then has only one pro-forme minority show, and it's far from the essence that satisfies minorities. We don't mind going to Vukovar. I was against the way, I said, and now I think the resolution of the minister who orders what the education sector is going to do is not a good thing. The Secretary of Defense is intrinsically ordering you to go there. So why is there a Ministry of Education that needs to be decided as part of some kind of programme, education or whatever. And it can't be a form of resolution for me. What if he doesn't? He's gonna pay the fine? If my parents say I won't let my child go, will they pay the fine, the child gets expelled from school or what? No, I've got it here, I'll read it, I'll give it to you, so read it, form is unacceptable to me. I wasn't talking about the essence of a visit to the Memorial center no, I was talking about form and that form creates a certain animosity in people and people react the way they wouldn't otherwise react. Those who would like to let go now say so you can't tell us to go there for two days. I'm warning you of one of these approaches to this problem, nothing more, just that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88558	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88559	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I've also heard from my colleague Horvat about your thinking about going to Vukovar. I think that's good. I was a minister of Croatian defenders and I know that and often we from the ministry have encountered incredible ignorance, but not only in young people but also in adults. And now, let's make a public statement here, for example, for Parliamentarians, about how precise and precise the Ovchara was beaten, the victims were killed, I'm not sure everyone would have the same idea of saying the exact number, and such figures are a lot. According to Vukovar, every nation in its history is determined by something that is truly untouchable and something that everyone must know all about. Vukovar is such a place, therefore the symbol of both defenses and heroism and martyrdom and victory and ecocids and urbocids and genocide of all these things is the Vukovar symbol. It is unimaginable what I hear these days also in the political space that there are some politicians who have never been in the memory column, and the memory column lasts since the 18th November of '98. So, after Vukovar was returned constitutionally-legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I've been to Arlington several times, in an American cemetery where all the American soldiers died in all the wars were buried. Millions of American children come to Arlington, daily there are thousands and thousands of American children from all over America who have to stand still because they have a master's ceremony that commands when a crown is laid. All civilians here must stand still, and all soldiers, no matter what they are active or inactive, must put their hands on the heart at the moment when the crown is laid. So, I'm into it but I believe it's not an order that would make someone whose child wouldn't leave... [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88560	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88561	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree with you that every society has certain places of special piety. And if this is a society, this community has determined it's exactly Vukovar, and not some other place I don't mind. We appreciate that. And I agree with you that in America you stand, it's a ceremonial thing when you're already there, of course there's a ceremony and rules you respect. It's all normal. I'm just saying, it's not acceptable for me to order it. Everything else is fine. My parents were coming, they said it's no problem that it's in another form, so my God. All those living in the Republic of Croatia, who remain here, accept the values of the Republic of Croatia all, not selectively. But to order you to do so, so don't mind reminding me again of some past time when you had to go to Kumrovec. Well, I didn't want to go! Well, I'm thinking about what it's about! Why don't you let that thing go to your parents and one other way, another method of mutual communication, explanations, etc. Give your parents a chance to get to know each other if we talk about everything why we didn't talk about it with our parents. Maybe it would have been a much bigger effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88562	And Joseph Salapic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88563	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Horvat, I think the real day of understanding the problems of both the Croatian people and Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality will be when 18.11. The Day of Remembrance of Vukovar will not be the day of political reckoning, the day of the columns of one, the other or the third. In my opinion, it would be a day that should be a national holiday, a state holiday that would be a day of remembrance, a day of memory of all the victims of the Homeland War without being mistaken. History has taught us a lot. And also the late Franjo Tudjman, let us remember the peace train and the message then to Vukovar how much of this day has been done according to the rights of all national minorities, and especially to me, the Serb national minorities. I advocate that tolerance and peace when we all go on 18.11., when it is a state holiday and when any Croatian government, the president of the state, the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister, all the representatives, all the parties, all of you fellow national minorities can go without any burden to honor all the victims of the war were Croatian, were those Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality. I purposely speak to Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality because that is how I consider all national minorities. One is a country, one is a people, our problems today are much, much stronger than this distinction of who is a Croat, who is a Serb and who loves his country more. One is Croatia's Homeland. And the fact that with you and any national minority any political elite when there is no vote to draw up a government game and play I'll just go back to the peace train and say that there are narrow interests, I'll quote President Tudjman, about narrow interests, local interests, the interests of individuals should be below national interests, and our national interest is to respect all rights, economic... We get out of the crisis and a better life for all Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88564	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88565	counterpart Salapic, if most of you thought the column of memories in Vukovar would probably be much bigger and much more members of the Serb community would be in that column. There are unfortunately a number of social factors, social behaviors that send signals, don't, you're not welcome there. Besides, signals are being sent to members of the Croatian people. And what kind of signals would it be for members of the Serb community if someone other than the bold individuals who were there? So we can't say they're not from both local and city level and state level if they were. I'd like to welcome that moment if it wasn't a controversial matter and if all of us could go and honor dead people, killed, killed, etc. Because it's in the culture of man. We're at the end and close so much that at least we can respect each other in those moments. However, I would ask one question. If that's the case, if there's a question of why Serbs don't come to the memory column, I'm asking one of the opposite questions. What is the amount of patriotism when on Statehood Day in one small environment you have three flags hanging? So what's this about? Well, most people don't have a culture of memorying certain things. ... watch, impossible, incredible thing that state holidays no one manifests it publicly, most people don't do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't tell me why you're not there when there's a lot more to be done in society together to make one, one whole picture of that subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88566	On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88567	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is the tenth-largest report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Assembly on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And when the debate was held on the parent board, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and here today in the assembly, different opinions have been expressed that move away from repeating the same data for years, until the report has been cut down to those findings that this is one of the few completely objective reports. If any of us are very detailed in reading this report even though we have passed this law, it can become clear to him what is done in particular and what is the same atmosphere, or what kind of society we live in. And so our colleagues and colleagues don't tell us anything... that every morning we tell ourselves how beautiful and smart we are in a mirror if the facts are different. I don't really think that if we fool ourselves, it has a crucial impact on the confidence of the Croatian nation and the state. Just because I said so, I'll share the debate on behalf of the SDP club in two parts. So in my first part, I will say why the SDP Club supports this report, and in the second part, I will look back on the context or picture and on the real possibilities of achieving the rights of national minorities and under this constitutional law that does not actually have constitutional power but is just so beautiful and seductively called and it is actually an organic law. But there are other rights based on which national minorities exercise their rights in the Republic of Croatia in view of international contracts that the Republic of Croatia is signatories. So the report notes that there is satisfactory progress in most areas. In the part in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia was tasked with ensuring full exercise of the rights of members of national minorities or consistent application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities throughout the Republic of Croatia, and as a legal state, a state based on the rule of law and the protection of human rights, the Government has and has done and therefore we will support this report. It was also obliged to do so, and since we are party to the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities as well as the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages and in accordance with which it is necessary to act proactively. Furthermore, what was good, and the minister talked about it in the reference year, several colleagues referred to it, is just a signed contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Radio Television and related to the production, co-production and broadcasting of emissions in the languages of national minorities, and so it will be on a 4-year period, so by 2017 on HRT or primarily in the radio programme we should hear 60 shows on the minority programme. What is the accent of both this contract and what we constantly point to is that in the SDP club and also members of some other clubs, it is unacceptable to show minorities that they only come down into some cultural and traditional frameworks, they should actually be informed objectively about them, to meet their informative needs, but also to have many more minority contributions in general informative emissions that minorities show in a completely different light, just to create a different climate in the Republic of Croatia. And because the media bears special social responsibility as one of the fundamental pillars of democratic society. Similarly, when we talk about the media, I will not miss the finding of the Council for National Minorities, which is that the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media are not fully applied without the obligations laid down by the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages, i.e. no programmes in the Italian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian and Serbian languages have been introduced. What has been positive in the past year is that the Government has decided to co-finance with a specific decision, i.e. to finance the work of the Council of National Minorities and representatives of national minorities in those units of local self-government that are not financially self-sustainable or which have no money for which they are economically underdeveloped and, in particular, a good part of them are located in areas of special state concern. The third thing that is positive is to increase the share of national minorities in the number of civil servants in state administration bodies. So, in the last few years, and especially since the government's decisions have been in force, it has been said since the term of last government in 2009 that it is not possible to increase the number of national minorities as civil servants and subsistence, and in fact from this report we are witnessing a positive example. Therefore, in view of the public tenders that individual ministries had called, it was important to make sure that members of national minorities were employed. So, of the newly employed civil servants, we have about 6% of minority representatives, or members of the pardon, and that's actually saying that we're also that desired percentage that would be at least minimal under the law. Although in principle, looking at general figures in government authorities is still below the expected level. What's the situation in the judiciary, what's the state of law enforcement? I can only illustrate the next fact, which is that there is no official in the Commercial Court, no official in the Administrative Court who is a member of the minority. And together at the High Administrative Court, the Supreme Court, the High Commercial Court and the High Violent Court, there are as many as 1 Serb and 2 others. In addition to some of the traditionally good areas in which the application of this law is satisfactory, such as education and education in minority languages, such as cultural autonomy, such as the achievement of religious freedoms, such as the increase of a particularly sensitive minority population, such as Roma in different preschool programmes, preschool education and high school and higher education, I will point out, however, that there are some critical points that are much more frequent in the management of units of local and regional and regional self-government than in government authority, i.e. at national level, although the government is tasked with regulating them because I remind you that we still do not have an adequate normative framework to regulate their successful application. So I will repeat that the Ministry of Administration has drawn up a list of units of local self-government in which members of a particular national minority form at least one third of the population and who are obliged to regulate in their statutes the exercise of the right to equal minority language and letters. And such units of local self-government after the census we have 27, but beware of the population census and published results as early as 2012 there is absolutely no change. And only 12 of them have one general use, a general provision on the use of minority language and letters, 5 of which has not even brought them into line and 10 of them have a harmonised statute. The number of units of self-government in which it is necessary to ensure representation of members of national minorities in the administrative bodies of those units is 78, and now watch out for this, he is compared to the previous reference period that is actually a period of 4 years from local elections to local elections, so there are fewer for 19. And of these 78, the right fully achieves 56 of them until 22 is guaranteed representation. And even the number of people who provide compared to the year before and the report we discussed here, it's smaller by 8. And when it comes to the employment of local self-government units, therefore the deputy, the unit official of local self-government, that's one trend that we all have to ask ourselves about. If you take into account that 192 are newly employed and that minority members are 30 fewer than they were in the previous reference period, then it is indeed one information that has all of us concerned. And that's about local self-government. And now I'm going to go to that national trend that has us all concerned here and that's data on hate crimes committed in accordance with the Penal Code. If I tell you that the number of such crimes has increased by 6 or 7 times and that basic reasons and motivations are precisely ethnicity or nationality, then it is to ask ourselves what kind of society we live in even though the Ministry of Administration states that there is no systematic and organised crime against members of national minorities, and on the other hand we have a hate crime that has increased by 29.1% over the past year. And what I find very important is to mention that no one in the House can speak, this is a political stage about 2013 and not to mention that it was exactly the year when the Parliament received a request to call a state referendum with a question concerning the amendment of Article 12. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, and thus the right to the official minority language and letters is exercised only in those units of local self-government but also in the field of justice and public administration, in those units where the percentage of minority members is 505, so that the threshold is increased or in other words that minority national communities in those units become majorityal. And the fact is that over 576 thousand citizens, and some of them themselves were members of national minorities, signed the requirement that although this threshold is one of the thresholds that is highest in our immediate and further environment, it increases so that the minority must become the majority in order to achieve its right. And part of the people was convinced that they were doing something patriotic, that they were doing something important for the Croatian people, but what's very worrying, which I remind them of once again, and that it was signed by some who were sitting in the government when the government unanimously adopted the Action Plan for the intensive implementation of this law, which just referred to the increased use of language and letters of the national minority to join the EU. And it is us, in fact, that such an inconsistencies of politics that, on the one hand, manipulated the feelings of victims of the Croatian victim, on the other hand in resolving the achievement of the standard of mutual understanding and co-existence between the majority and the minority, that the social conditions and the political conditions for the implementation of this law were much worse than they were when the law was passed 12 years ago. Both colleagues and colleagues we are going to remind in that same year, we have become a full member of the EU and once again life confirms that nothing needs to be taken for granted and that the level of democratic standards achieved is not guaranteed. And that is why I am going to repeat here the words and president of the Croatian government that he presented at the time he spoke about the state of the nation and the government's work report in the past year "We must not let public concerns be questioned about minority social groups. It is our duty and our business to promote and defend the rights of the weaker. These are the highest values defended in the Homeland War. A country where people live and express themselves in harmony with their beliefs and with the free understanding of their own identity." And colleagues and colleagues, it's high time to reach a consensus on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88568	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88569	My colleague Mulic, from what you were actually saying, I expected Mr. Arsen Bauk to say that, but I think you've made a good contribution to this whole story through your exposure. So, if I had time, you might have talked more about it, but you talked about the National Minority Council, I guess, thinking about how the National Minority Council has allocated certain resources to national minorities for information according to those general and specific criteria. These general and specific criteria say that financial support will be promoted and provided for the achievement of cultural, informative, publishing programmes of associations and institutions that contribute to the promotion and establishment of multiethnic and multicultural trust, especially in the criteria, that associations and institutions that are... the request for... financial support must promote the values of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia. Of these 4,1 million kuna funds, the Serbian... publishing council received, and 3.5 million kunas spend on the News weekly, the Serbian weekly Novosti, I have here several recent numbers, which actually depicted one... example of hate speech. I will point out to you that this is an insult to the symbols of the Republic of Croatia, to the Croatian citizens, to be insulted by the Catholic Church, to be spoken of by HDZ as a fascist organization, to Ustasha parties, to speak of the first President Tudjman as a dictator who, in addition to being guarded by armed guards, might need to set minefields in front of his or similar monuments and not to mention, you can read most of it in this week for which this same National Minority Council gives 3.6 million kuna. Just for credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88570	Thank you very much. Furio Radin, replica. You've got to get in touch with your colleague. Replication response, Melita Mulic. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88571	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague Babić, about freedom of media expression, I may not be a media monster, or indeed, perhaps on the other hand, and I don't read the News weekly, so I can't really agree with you about certain things that you said in your replica, but I actually believe that there are certain bodies that take account of it, respecting freedom of speech and expression in the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, when it comes to the Council for National Minorities, I will remind myself that it is an independent body in which members, i.e. representatives of national minorities and different experts who are also delegated, or elected by different scientific councils and associations of members of national minorities. It's an independent body anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88572	Furio Radin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88573	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Mulić when he talks about that, she did not of course use that word, but I use it, that it is a shame that the law does not apply in many places where statutes do not change even though the law says that they should change. I'd say the country is divided both horizontally and vertically. It is vertically divided because the laws that are passed here, then it does not apply in other parts of Croatia, we will not talk about... periphery, and horizontally because in some places Croatia and where laws exist, they are not applied, and in other, completely other places, geographical, Croatian and where there are no legal basis, it is corrected by statutes and then goes through the law. I say the following, those who say, and here almost everyone says that we have good laws that don't apply, say one thing that doesn't make sense. A good law that doesn't apply to you is the same as a good protocol for the pilot to land, but then the pilot fails to land but crashes on the ground. The protocol's good, but he didn't land or take off. That's the way it is. There is no good law that cannot be applied, a good law must have mechanisms to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88574	Melita Mulic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88575	Thank you. Yes, I agree with you that in the Republic of Croatia, both for this area and for many others, there is this normative optimism and that there is no or no effective application of the control and control mechanisms of their implementation, and I mentioned it on the stage on behalf of the SDP Club and yet... to do, however, and I do not have to remind it, it is also stated in the Constitutional Court decision, and it is an obligation for all of us here to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and so on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that an adequate law will be passed, namely amendments and addition of laws which will be able to apply it because it is actually unacceptable to be there in those parts that should be closer to the citizens, which are the units of local self-government, these same citizens feel less level of protection of their rights, i.e.e.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88576	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88577	Dear colleague Mulic, you spoke of an increase in hate crime... rising almost 22%. That's what colleagues used to say, we're strong in laws, but we're bad at implementing those laws and we say that day by day. I noticed one reaction these days in the paper, when football player Simunic asks, I don't know which public person, which is why she didn't respond to the cries, I don't know, "kill Croats" and these are some painful scenes that need to be condemned. However,... Simunic would have the right to his intervention if he stood up against the cry "kill, kill a Serb". So long as we members of the majority people will not react, especially public figures, and we will defend the attitudes of those groups that sow hatred on the fields of various things, so long those other things will happen, and we will not have the right to judge because we do not condemn what we ourselves do and what small groups do, small groups, but we need to judge them. The other thing is, it has been repeated for years, and only when some excesses happen then respond to public figures because they have to work for the EU. He's not responding to the police, he's not responding to the DORH, he's not responding to the Bounce. We've been talking about fast courts that'll be spending those people in jail right after the game, we haven't done anything. We encourage ourselves, I talk about public figures, politicians, we encourage such a situation. We allow there to be more hate crimes, and that's why this number is worrying than 22%. We ourselves need, we are too tolerant and too often here in the Assembly with sympathy looks at such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88578	Melita Mulic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88579	My colleague Vuksic, I'm just going to correct you is not 22 but 29.1% I think 7% is an even bigger difference and that's just an increase compared to last year. So that is one trend that requires consensus and I agree with you in condemning such phenomena and condemning different media phenomena. And that's why I would expect, too, here today we had a debate about the white monastery pamphlet, and I would expect, too, that colleagues from the right or that in their later discussions that will refer on behalf of clubs, because these are the things that we all must individually and constantly use the opportunity to condemn them and which lead to the collapse of the achieved civilization and democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88580	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, colleague Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88581	Honorable vice presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities provides for equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities. Despite the recognition of 22 national minorities in Croatia in the Republic of Croatia, only 7 languages of national minorities are officially recognised, which are Italian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Ukrainian, Russian and Serbian. The need to add Roma language in this list must be noted here because it is a prerequisite for the achievement of a number of other rights of that national minority. It should be asked whether it is illogical for the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb to have a college on Roma language and culture, without the same language being included in recognised minority languages in the Republic of Croatia. As regards education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, it is certainly to praise the continuation of the trend of investment in the education of national minorities, as shown in the printing of new textbooks in the Czech language. But it should be pointed out that in terms of education and education in the Roma language, almost nothing significant has happened. Since Roma do not have a country of origin, there are no standardized textbooks in Roma. In order to achieve this goal, as a necessary prerequisite, the Roma language should be recognised as the 8th language of national minorities in Croatia to access the development of necessary textbooks. Many Roma children who are just moving to school are not well enough served in Croatian language, so enabling them to make it much easier to adapt them to school and better understand and master school material, which would directly affect the reduction of the high percentage of early school leaving. At the very end of this report, the number of members of the national minorities employed by certain authorities of the state administration was indicated. It is obvious that this law does not work in the area of employment of members of national minorities as a percentage of their share in the population. Although this problem is the most visible for many specific reasons, for example, for the Roma national minority, it is felt by all other minorities, and the problem of unemployment has been further intensified in recent years due to the years of economic decline in society. Part of the report on access to public communication means deals mainly with HTV and its dedicated national minority programmes of Prism and Manjinski mosaics form an important segment of education both for minority populations and for majority people who, through these shows, are familiar with the culture of minority peoples in the Republic of Croatia, thus improving the development of a culture of dialogue and co-existence. It is therefore necessary to consider moving these emissions to another term, not on the weekend of the morning, in order for minority topics to reach as many people as possible. However, in the world of improving access to public communications means, it should certainly be pointed out that I support the initiative of the HSU Representatives Club by abolishing the TV subscription for citizens of the weaker property situation. In this way, the Roma National Minority, which would have been of multiple assistance, was particularly affected. It is interesting that this report mentions very little of the legalisation of illegally built buildings of members of national minorities in the subject of housing. Certainly, the biggest problem remains the restoration of the homes of the returnees of national minorities in their homes that have left the warstorm, but certainly more attention should be paid to the current developments in this area, especially the legalisation of illegally built objects. In this context, legalisation of Roma facilities should be placed under special increase because this legalisation is one of the main preconditions of long-term housing care and the introduction of municipal services into these settlements as a prerequisite for a better life for Roma. The Roma in Croatia are characterized by an extremely residential segregation from the majority population and this is something that more attention should be paid in the future. Ethnicly motivated crimes and discrimination proceedings are still present in our society. The progress of the police and the judiciary in identifying hate crimes should certainly be commended. The Serb minority as the largest minority and minority to which war events are linked is unquestionably carrying a large part of the burden that is clearly indicated in this document. However, I believe that more attention should be paid to ethnically motivated criminal acts against persons of the Roma population in order to send a clear message that this type of behaviour is not socially acceptable. We all remember the case of the Roma family in Škabrnja, and the parent protest in Međimurje to prevent teaching in which Roma and non-Roma children would be in the common classes. But the public doesn't know if the main actors of these events have been prosecuted for their actions. As regards the financial indicators of this report, only how much money is granted to individual state bodies for projects related to the national minority is indicated. In the end, it was merely stated that over 138 million kunas were spent last year for the implementation of this law. I believe that more attention should be added to this part of the report in the future, citing an even more detailed cost specification in order to create more transparent insights into spent resources. Special attention is given in this report to the Action Plan for the implementation of the national Roma inclusion strategy for the period 2013 to 2015. The greatest progress in improving Roma living conditions is seen in the area of education that is slowly beginning to be seen as a prerequisite for a better future among the Roma. But it certainly needs to be pointed out. Even greater shifts can be made to include Roma children in preschool activities that would result in better socialization and higher levels of service in the Croatian language. In order to avoid poor knowledge of Croatian language, children have poor results at school and leave early. Unfortunately, the huge number of Roma children after 5th grade of primary school no longer participate in the educational process, which is one of the biggest problems of the Roma population in the Republic of Croatia. The national strategy for education, science and technology has recognised the importance of preschool education for Roma children, and the plan is to provide free two-year preschool education for all Roma children. We hope that these plans will be implemented in quality, and that preschool programmes will not only last two months a couple of hours a day as it has been known to happen so far. Vrtić, i.e. preschool education for Roma children, is primarily a place of socialization and the mastering of Croatian language, and since these children of employed parents have the advantage of enrolment in kindergarten almost as a rule Roma children remain unrecorded. The strategy mentioned also recognised the importance of adult education as well as the possibility of enrolling in high school after a two-year break after completion of primary school, which is particularly important for Roma who decide to continue their education. Quality shifts are also taking place in the assumptions of creating cultural autonomy through the Council for National Minorities since the Council is regularly financing cultural... cultural events, publishing and information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has provided help to monitor teaching for 542 students. It also lists a figure of 5400 Roma primary school students, and I remind you that the Roma minority in the last census has just over 16000 members, so it turns out that every third Roma in Croatia is a member of a primary school which is illogical, since it is known that Roma characterises early schooling. The provision of scholarships, accommodations in dormitories were designed to increase the number of Roma students of both sexes who successfully finish high school. The Ministry of Science has registered 23 students enrolled in higher school institutions in the academic year 2012/2013. I believe that one of the priorities of the education system in the Republic of Croatia should be to create a greater number of Roma students in order to improve the poor level of education in the Roma population. The practice of scholarship of Roma students and students by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should certainly be commended. However, it should be appealed that paying the scholarships mentioned monthly, not that, for example, scholarships are paid in May for several months at a time. In recent years, however, education has created a number of Roma with acquired secondary and academic titles, and a new problem has been created for the employment of highly educated Roma, and the employment of Roma is one of the main objectives of the action plan. In this regard, it should be pointed out that certain articles of this law relating to the proportionate representation of members of national minorities and their advantages in employment are clearly not applicable in practice which demonstrates the unemployment of highly educated Roma. For the time being, it seems that the only possible employment for Roma in Croatia is the occasional work on public works, and as useful as these public works are for the Roma population, such a type of employment is generally short-term and does not solve the existence of participants and public works soon return to receiving social assistance. Employing highly educated Roma would have an impact on increasing and continuing Roma education, and would create models in the community. Certain points in the report of the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Roma Inclusion Strategy are very few entries. In the health care department, only briefly described and listed activities in the field of health care, it is concluded that the percentage of vaccination rates of Roma children reach the percentage of vaccinations and other children, stating directly two rows above that there is insufficient data to assess the health situation. It is unquestionable whether the area of health care is a particularly important field for the Roma, since they are characterised by poor conditions, thus making the disease more prone to a shorter life span. The question arises whether such an important area has not earned a little more attention. Both the institutions participating in the implementation of this action plan and those who have drawn up the report. Also, social care is mentioned at the beginning of the report as one of the main pillars of the holder of this action plan, but there is almost no word in the report, and it includes a very important part of the Roma problem since Roma above are on average represented as users of the Services Centre for Social Care. The Committee for the Monitoring of the implementation of the Roma Inclusion Action Strategy for the period 2013 to 2020 held two meetings in 2013. It also adopted criteria for establishing financial assistance for the Roma national minority for the period from 2013 to 2015 and decided on the allocation of financial resources to the Roma national minority in 2013 amounting to €640000. I point out that the new rules have been abolished once-in-a-lifetime financial assistance to natural persons. It is certainly necessary to highlight the need as soon as possible of this committee's meeting, both due to regular obligations to monitor the implementation of this document and to assist the suffering Roma in the September floods, with particular emphasis on floods in the Podravsko Roma settlement Drnja near Koprivnica where Roma homes have been under water for days and as such do not meet the minimum living conditions which bring the Roma there into an even more difficult situation. Similarly, natural disasters were experienced by the village of Parag and Kursanec in Međimurje and in the Roma settlement of the Church and I hope that the competent services will have the hearing to help these settlements as they had for the flooded area in the County of Posavina in May. I am aware of the weight of the economic and social situation in the country caused by the multi-annual economic crisis and the rise in unemployment and cost of life. The poor situation in the Roma community is not conditioned by the latest economic trends, but is such a generation and current negative economic trends and cannot and must not be a reason to reduce efforts to improve the development of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia. In order to improve the conditions of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia, I will highlight the main thesis. Recognition of Roma language as the eighth language of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, implementation of an action plan for Roma inclusion at local and regional self-government level must be a priority since only 5 counties have adopted their action plans for Roma integration. ... National Roma strategies adopted in 2013. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To enable free legalisation of Roma-based facilities, since it is a socially vulnerable community. Direct enrolment of higher education institutions to directly affect the level of education of the Roma population. Finally, the employment of educated Roma according to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88582	We're moving on to replicas. Sunhead, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88583	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The truth is, my colleague Kajtazi does a few facts. I will start with the inclusion of Roma children or members of the Roma national minority in preschool programmes. You yourself have said what is the basic problem, so that children can participate equally in the course when they go to first class is a prerequisite to serve with the Croatian language, which is a big problem. You yourself pointed out children mostly do not know Croatian. So the truth is working on this, and I think it's a good move for children to get involved in preschool, which is, for example, a good example, in the County of Međimurje. When I mention the County of Međimurje, I will return to what simply cannot remain unspeakable here, my colleague Kajtazi is incorrectly engaged in segregation in Međimurje and it is incorrect for the Međimurci to discriminate on anyone. I will remind you that 11 000 Roma in three Roma settlements live in Međimurje County, that more than 4 million kuna members of the Roma national minority from the state budget receive social benefits and when you mention legalisation and ask for help I will remind you equally that more than 70 million kuna has been allocated to legalisation of Roma settlements in Međimurje County. We want equal participants in all segments. That's where we agree absolutely, but these are the facts. And I think the Croatian public must know that, especially my Međimurians. And I wanted other colleagues and colleagues to hear it. What you're saying is that it would be good for the children of Roma national minorities to have direct enrolment, I think we'd just discrimination against the other children, and I believe you agree with me on that. And lastly, it is necessary to solve and create co-existence in the long term, and once again I urge you to do what we have done with HDZ, call on three ministers to actively engage and not declareably address these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88584	Thank you. Replication response, Veliko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88585	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on many occasions, you draw my attention as if I did not know the situation in Međimurje. I must tell you that in these three years your county I have visited at least 40 times, which means I care about solving as many Roma issues as possible. Obviously, it wasn't like that before, because if it were that sure, you'd be going around the county of Međimurje less. When it comes to enrolment in schools, I listed it to you last time, and now again I draw your attention that the Roma community is the most sensitive, most endangered social group of all 22 national minorities. We're aware that we've done very little backwards for 20 years, maybe even wider. And I think positive discrimination is necessary in the Roma community in everything. Since employment, enrolment in school, housing and everything that includes exactly two strategic documents the government has adopted, which is a national strategy and action plan. In the national strategy right since last year, we have introduced new reforms and we are looking for and considering that then and this national strategy that was made was not done with all Roma but only with individuals and that is why we are looking for a revision of that National Strategy in 2013. You've touched a lot so I can't remember yet, but when it comes to legalization in Međimurje, we have more than 12 settlements of Roma. So the settlements that are legalized are only partially legalized, only 6 Roma settlements, which is partly. And from year to year, new buildings are being built because the Roma community is expanding and expanding. So the legalization itself that was made is legalized objects and so, as far as the particles themselves are concerned, they didn't get rid of it all the way. There's a lot of other problems. I've got a little more time, and I'm taking the opportunity to invite you to deal with the Mejimur issue together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88586	Time's up. Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88587	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'd like to refer to two things you said in your debate. The first is, you said the Roma language should be recognised as the eighth language of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. So the problem is that there is actually no unique attitude among the Roma about what that, which would actually be the language. So in Međimurje County lives the largest, relatively largest number, the largest percentage of members of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia. So, I wouldn't say that's 11 grand, according to the census data, it's somewhere between 5100 and 6000, so they all plead as Roma, and in the list, one part of them is reported as Croats, so that data is actually unreliable. But therefore, in the County of Međimurje itself, it is not defined whether this Romani language is a chip, whether it is a Roma language, whether it is a fairy language. Therefore, it should first be agreed between the Roma, which would be a Roma language so that 8 languages of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia could be introduced. The other thing I want to refer to is the issue of segregation. You mentioned segregation, so it is generally known that several years ago the Međimurje County was accused of segregating Roma in the education system. It wasn't meant to be understood at the time, but I think it's understood today, so things have moved forward. So I believe that today it is clear that the appearance of clean Roma departments was neither a result of segregation, but simply the fact that there are some Međimurje schools, here I will point out as an example of Kursanac elementary school, and then the Macinac elementary school where children of the Roma national minority actually account for over 60% of the total number of students enrolled. Therefore, because of the high birth rate of the Roma population, Roma children have simply become the majority and Croatian children in these schools, since there are fewer, or too little, possible under such conditions, in such situations to combine therefore mixed classrooms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88588	Thank you. Big Kajtazi, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88589	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as if you asked me what you were going to ask me. I have to tell you when it comes to language, that's where the individuals have just reached the separation of the Roma. It is true in 1971 that at the world’s first convention held in London, the decision was made to be the official language, the Romanic Romanic language, and there was no more conversation. We get to it ourselves and separate. If they call themselves fairy-tales and say their language is fairy-tale, which is 99% similar to Romanian and there's no similarity to Roma language, I don't see any problem here. They need to be enabled, of course, that is their native language, and they need to be allowed to use their mother tongue and not in their official language. We need to start working on creating certain conditions for learning the Roma language of romance. This means curricula and textbooks, until then, of course, we have that the Roma language will not even be in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88590	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88591	Dear counterpart Kajtazi, you are now devoting and apostrophe when it comes to the positions of the Roma national minority several times in a negative context. I am sorry that you think that this will do well to members of your community and ignore and do not mention that preschool children's playgrounds in 2000, 2001 were introduced to Međimurje when no one knew about them in Croatia. That the assistants in the teaching, the helpers of the Roma minority in Međimurje, existed when in Croatia it was not even the topic of the debate. That the first money of $2.5 million for legalisation or urbanisation of the settlement was allocated in 2002 to what is the final amount I do not know. And you're calling and blaming the local and state authorities for legalizing the settlement, but you're keeping a secret from the second problem we've encountered since the first time we tried such a settlement. One third of the buildings were built on the land of the owner, the second third on the usurped state land and the third third on usurped private land. And how can a building be legalized under the Law of Legalisation if the owner built it on the usurped private property of another neighbour, citizen, citizen of the Republic of Croatia? When ownership of land is cleared only then can you demand free legalisation as measures to ensure positive discrimination but you do not advocate such measures among others. So you have to present all the facts, not in part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88592	Thank you. The answer to the line by Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88593	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have mentioned the games since 2001, and the playrooms are not made according to the educational programme of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. My personal opinion is that it's a waste of money because I'd rather ask and talk about whether we have and how many Roma employees in Međimurje, do we have them at all, and what we did from 2001 to today, means 13 years? How many of our Roma and those children have been educated in all this. You're talking about legalization, the legalization itself, you see for yourself how infrastructure was made, the infrastructure is so built over every rainy house is flooded, the situation is a disaster. And then we wonder if it was better if that asphalt had or wasn't there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88594	My colleagues and colleagues will take a short break until 12:00 when we approach the vote, so please all enter the hall and take your seats.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88595	We're going over, or we're going back to the debate. We'll be back to discuss the agenda point. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to allow a further discussion of the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. .../The speakers speak in voice, the noise in the hall./... My colleagues and colleagues discuss weekends and meetings during the weekend leave for outside the assembly. I think there's a condition for a follow-up. We're going to discuss the club representations. It is now up to the club of respected representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS. I'd like the Honorable representative of the Adriatic Kosor to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88596	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think all the conditions for continuing the debate have been met yet, because there are still words and marbles, so I'm asking you nicely to try to ensure the conditions if possible, and if I can't outvote myself. Thank you very much, Mr. President, I also wanted to say Mr. Minister but he's gone, but I would just like to mention the interestingness for the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who will present this report on behalf of the Government. Two Deputy Prime Ministers, four Ministers, six Deputys, are listed, and as we can see, there has been no one here for a long time. So it's the same thing that I think we could change because there's no need for the government, it's not just in this case, it's been before and there will be a future, that the government lists 6, 7, 8, 10 representatives of the government who will attend the meetings of the Croatian Parliament. Remember the debate on the State's Attorney's Office's work report where no one was there either. Then it doesn't make sense and there's no need to point it out. It is such a small side note that speaks about how much and how much the work of the Croatian Parliament is appreciated. This report is of course standard. Here is the box of more than 138 million kunas invested last year, I will not say spent but invested, in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. But, of course, all the other laws that are based on the law. That's one correct report. I agree with those who talked about how these reports were actually typed, that they were more or less talking about the same, only maybe since year and year they're changing here and there which number, and the minister who filed the reports somehow did it, I would almost say reluctantly and below the radar. And this is a topic that should bring us very much together because we colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen in setting standards in the protection of human rights or in the protection of the rights of national minorities, and then again I repeat human rights we raised the scale high in the year 96, when President Tudjman signed all relevant international documents that speak of the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia to protect the rights of national minorities. So, this road that started by entering the Council of Europe, then to other institutions, and before that, of course, the United Nations had created a framework in which we are still moving today and about which today's debate is being held. Of course, we are talking today about the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities, but also other laws, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the language and letter of national minorities. And I think we can also conclude this time that our legislative framework is excellent, it has raised standards among the highest in Europe. Surely, we are a country in the EU that can be strongly raised and praised by this legislative framework, but of course always at the beginning and at the end of the day we come to a debate on whether laws are implemented and whether everything we do in everyday life is in line with the highest standards. I will remind you in this debate that since 2010 when we changed the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to the original foundations, we have extended the provision that speaks of the Republic of Croatia as a national state of the Croatian people and states of members of national minorities. That we had all the national minorities, 22 of them and numbered, in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so that it was another standard that we have seen by consensus, since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was being incorporated into the highest legislative or legislative act that determines how we will live and in which direction we will move. Already here in the morning, Salapic mentioned President Tudjman and his speech in Vukovar. After the peace train arrived in 97, so here I appeal today that fellow MPs and MPs read that speech where President Tudjman comes with the peace train in still occupied Vukovar because there was... And where he speaks at the beginning of his speech about how he sees the victory's relationship with everyone else and where he clearly says that a winner who can't forgive sows the cry of a new evil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a speech that really enters the annals of political speeches in Croatia but also much wider. It should be read, it should be returned to it because this speech, which has clearly drawn out, among other things, the direction that we must go towards the protection of minorities regardless of the past that was especially in Vukovar, is terrible, because Vukovar was exposed to the ruthless aggression of the third largest and strength of the army in Europe, so the Yugoslav army, I purposely abandon the people, because it was not the people's. So, the report is good, it's well structured. There's one incorrect piece of information in this report, so I suggest that it be corrected on page eight. The government therefore proposes this report mentions the proposal for a conclusion on the issue of the establishment of bilingual inscriptions in the City of Vukovar and the application of the Constitutional Law on the rights of minorities submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by 113 MPs. If it had been submitted by 113 MPs, then we could have changed the Constitution. In fact, it is one-third of the MPs and it is a mistake that remains in history, so I suggest that the error be corrected. We can also be satisfied with the situation in the field of education, there have been a lot of words here about the Roma national minority. I think the last report clearly shows little progress but important progress in education, greater coverage of children and preschools and primary schools and secondary schools. This is one of the main objectives and decades for the Roma and other documents signed by the Republic of Croatia. So by education to cover as many children as possible especially do everything to get as many girls as possible members of the Roma national minority school due to tradition. And I think that in that sense we're going a good way, it's good, of course, and it was decisions and past governments to scholarship children of members of the Roma national minority. Of course, however, we are never happy to the end. We mention especially all the Roma National Minority because it is also the most sensitive and because further efforts need to be made in the health system, but also in housing. There was also talk of cultural autonomy here and we can and cannot be satisfied. It mentioned HRT, which is owned by the state, which also signed an agreement with the government. I don't think we can be satisfied because in no way is all the information good, especially about political events, but certainly in a culturally large overall segment to put into... shows. We are not targeted... by the minority, our goal is to continuously strengthen what is called life. I don't even use the word co-existence, but life, common in a common country called Croatia. So I don't think that the flyer that was mentioned here today, I'm just touching it, was written by anyone who loves Croatia, so I think it should be ignored in principle and ignored. The information on increasing the issue of IDs, in particular the Italian national minority, is interesting. So last year, 2608, I'm sorry about 2012. 2068, and already last year 6524. I mention the major activity that was launched since 2010, which is seen in the 2010 report when the Ministry of Interior launched, and this was particularly highlighted in the report, education of members of national minorities for issuing ID cards in their language. So it was an education that started here four and five years ago. And finally, once again, colleagues and colleagues should mention that in the context of this report, we are constantly talking about everything we have done and doing in the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, about the efforts of Croatian society to be a truly tolerated society, EU member states, and in this sense very often we think that we have what we have for our colleagues in the remaining 27 EU member states, but this struggle and the quest for a tolerance society, a democratic society, a society in which we will respect each other and respect each other, a society in which we will not fear others and different ones, this struggle and this insistence will continue and will always continue, and other people should be tried to give a hand and therefore should learn from, as it is said, small legs, from kindergarten and from elementary schools. Finally, given the situation in Vukovar, I must mention this in the context of the Constitutional Court's decision, which was related to the ban on holding a referendum on the amendment of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, it is my opinion that the Constitutional Court has unfortunately decided nothing until the end. The problems remain, the problems are not currently being talked about, but the problems of the kidney and I'm afraid we could re-escalate them. So nothing's been solved until the end. I'm afraid that by approaching the 18th of November, many things will be brought to the surface again, that there will be incredibly much tension as it was last year and I appeal for this pay phone because unfortunately 18 November and the Colon of Memories come at the time of the strengthening of the presidential campaign, I appeal that we will be able to really all. There is always the responsibility of those who currently rule this country the greatest, there is no doubt about it, and I suggest that we get the strength to welcome this 18th November in dignity, in silence, in praying to those who pray, that we all bow down together to the victim of Vukovar, and that after that we continue the discussion and the implementation of the Constitutional Law, about the way of implementation, about what the Government will do, but it would be important to welcome this 18th November to everyone who is welcome to Vukovar and that anyone who wants to light a candle and who wants to bow to Croatian defenders and civilians who have defended Vukovar and those children who owned in the basements and all those wounded who were prone to the Vukovar hospital, and then taken to the Ovcar and there massacred, that we all bow together, regardless of our differences of political, ethnic and then to move on. If we were to succeed, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, do this year, then a report like this would certainly be more complete for next year, or for next year, and we could accept it with much more enthusiasm and pride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88597	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We've registered six replicas to your exposure. The first replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88598	My colleagues, I mean, what you've been saying, and you've said well and nicely, given the situation, I'd say something... to us dramatically, even in Europe and in some other parts of the world, extremists appear, those who use time of crisis to offer some sort of solution, showing that for all the trouble is just others' fault. Second and different on any basis. It's a very dangerous situation that you're warning about right now, and it needs to be talked about all the time, not ignoring that it's happening somewhere else, somewhere in another city, in another country, on another continent because evil quickly comes. In fact, when you point out the issue of education, and that is why I see it as a support for introducing civic education that children from the earliest age are taught democracy, they learn tolerance that the other is not our enemy. And what is important for some who are a little older to stop their patriotism, to show their patriotism in such a way and to measure how much they hate others how impatient they are to others that this is a measure of their patriotism and patriotism. Whoever hates someone else doesn't love himself or his own.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88599	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88600	Yes, I agree on standards and on comparisons with other countries. Let's remember France, let's remember Paris, let's remember the terrible riots that have often culminated in incredible conflicts. Note that this is a warning where it can lead when the problem is put under the carpet or when the problem is buried and when the problem cannot be spoken publicly. The responsibility is always for those who run the state at that time, but equally responsibility is to politics as a whole on politicians as a whole. And accepting others and other times it often isn't easy or easy, but if we teach our children that another and different is not a danger, that another and different can be a treasure. Many times we spoke exactly that way that we spoke to members of national minorities, national minorities are less wealth for the Republic of Croatia, not now that's what they're saying about the 1990s I remember. The adoptions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, remember you and your colleagues were, so we brought it by consensus and we were then speaking to members of the then opposition as well as members of the then government, it was then the SDP government, saying that we want high standards. There was even one formulation used, I want over the standards, but above the standard or above the standard, it means exactly what it means to respect and try to understand. Sometimes it's not an easy way, but we can't get tired of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88601	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Veljko Kajtazi, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88602	Thank you. Dear counterpart Kosor, I must tell you that during your term, few countries in the region may be happy or proud that they had one prime minister who was the chairman of the Committee for the Monitoring of the National Programme for Roma. I have to tell you personally as a member of the Roma community I was overjoyed because I thought we'd do a lot of things like you just earlier in the presentation said little steps are going forward. But the Roma community has been in this area for nearly 700 years, and we're talking about these little steps all the time. We have to stop already, we have to do something to make it possible for the community right now what I've been saying all along must be positive discrimination when it comes to Roma. You remember recently my press conference, imagine at 2, 3 years of finally having one educated Roma and we can't find a job for him either, a job that's in the deficit. I ask the question why? Because he's a member of the Roma national minority or something else, the third I don't know. But if the person who entered the 30th narrow choice entered the top five, and they only receive four, and Roma do not receive. It refers to the Constitutional Law on the Employment of National Minorities in Article 22. And now I ask the question are we a community that we don't want Roma or do we want to help the Roma? That's one thing. Secondly, you also said about those little steps I'd go back on the subject of all those other ones, especially about education. We can only do a lot of things in education if we want to, and my personal opinion is little that we want in that part. You also mentioned help to monitor teaching, precisely, Roma have the only possibility of helping to pay for classes of 500 kuna in the 10 months of five thousand kuna. And we ask the question, is it only enough for the Roma to pay, that we have paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88603	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88604	You mentioned this to your colleague, Kajtazi, the Government's Committee for Roma Decade Monitoring, that I was at the head of this committee and vice president, after being elected Prime Minister, I felt it was good to continue and that it was good to show the direction in which we wanted to go. But what my experience has also been in leading this committee is that the government, whatever it is and whatever the means it has and however much real desire in government, can't be alone without the local community but also without the Roma community when we talk about the national minority about the Roma, so without the Roma community, it's also very difficult. So the Roma and their representatives must be alive and daily interested. As you know, there were great examples, let's say when we solved problems in Lower Dubrava in Međimurje, a terrible situation that we managed to improve, but there are examples where it's not always like that. So it's a message to the common forces if we catch up with each other this vividly by hand we have an honest and real desire and we're going to go a little bit further forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88605	Thank you very much. Dear representative of my colleague Zeljko Sabo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88606	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Representative Jadranka Kosor, honorary citizen of the city of Vukovar, I would like to say that I am a parliamentary representative of the born Vukovar, a participant of the Homeland War and a member of 204. Vukovar brigades are pleased with the Constitutional Court's decision to find a compromise solution to the situation in the application of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. It's better said that everyone understands about the sign of the Cyrillic board. I must tell you, if you are in the report that you sent to the EU when you were president of the Croatian Government, that the 2009 Statute of the City Council of the City of Vukovar in my mandate means the Council of the HDZ, the SDSS and the HSP, which was then adopted, that today it was only amended through the legal frameworks that the law gave. And this Statute of the city of Vukovar is in effect, and the Constitutional Court has just said for a year a teaming of the City Council of Vukovar and the city of Vukovar to settle the issue. So it's already been arranged in the city of Vukovar, because clearly in the articles of that statute, where exactly how it should be done today. You are talking about and I am glad that you mentioned it on 18.11. and that day by decision of the Croatian Parliament is the Day of Remembrance of the victims of Vukovar, and we Vukovars remember Skabrnje, including members of the Croatian Parliament. The day of the President of the Croatian Parliament should be a day for it to be a state protocol and organised by the Croatian Assembly to mark that day, a day of remembrance. That day should in some way exist an organisational committee Just give me a second, I'm sorry. [[The incursion president: Unfortunately, your time has run out and it's been a long time.]] It's Vukovar, if you'll excuse me. And to be organized by the state protocol, then a lot of things will be easier for both the citizens and the management of the city of Vukovar. I'd say one more sentence. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88607	Don't be a colleague of Sabo. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88608	Okay, I understand that you could be talking here all day. It would be great to talk about the devoid of any political passion, and enriched only by those human, true human passions because I think that when it comes to Vukovar and the Vukovar victim that there are no MPs and advocates here who don't feel the same deep pride and deep drinking towards victims and a deep true desire to be well in Vukovar, that people live well and that there are no events that we have witnessed. You mentioned the Constitutional Court's decision. She made it clear how she felt about the referendum, about amending the constitutional law. But also what the local community should do, means the City Council and what the government should do. Time goes by, time goes by. A year will pass and I think it would be time for them to sit together right now, these days met by the eighteenth and representatives of the government and representatives of the city of Vukovar and to try to see in these tasks which the Constitutional Court clearly ordered what, where, who thinks when to work. And the division of Vukovar and non-Vukovar Croatia was really alone last year, and I wouldn't want to experience it again. I believe it will never happen again, because all Croatian defenders especially you who defended Vukovar have the same position, the same place, no matter what happens later. All the Vukovar defenders deserve a special place, and I believe that's how this year's gonna be, that's what I hope. I suggest that here in the organization be called and honored citizens of Vukovar, MPs from that area to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88609	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88610	Thank you, Mr. President. I will continue as you do Mrs. Kosor and Mr. Sabo. You mentioned both 18.11. I already said it in the replica this morning, but I want it recorded. The day should be a day of remembrance and a national holiday for all victims and Croats and Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality. There were also Croatian defenders who were both Bosniaks and Italians and Roma and all other national minorities, citizens of Croatia, so as not to leave anyone out. The intention should be genuine and true. You mentioned a peace train. I'm often personally caught up in that speech by the president, the late President Tudjman. That's all that's been recorded, and thank God it's true. There were a lot of people in that peace train. I am sure that the late president was a visionary of the Croatian future, and that some people who were then on the peace train did not think exactly what the president meant. Because many years have passed since that day, of all those victims who fell for the defense of the Croatian homeland, for today's place and for us when we can speak so freely here in the assembly that on that day we will have what happened last year. And every year it was a little tense. So when we have Victory Day 5.8. we can have a day of memory of, not just Vukovar and not offend other places of death of the Croatian people. Let it be a place where he will remember all the cities and all the places where people have died for the freedom of Croatia, but let the honorable place be given to Vukovar. And I sincerely hope that one day when we have a new territorial structure in some different conditions of Croatia, when we think about the future of the country in the context of EU membership that Vukovar will also be the place of a particular administrative region, that it will not only be a day of memory of history, but also the day of the future when there will be new jobs, when there will be companies, when all people will be free to live and work in their Vukovar. That's the most important thing to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88611	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88612	Yes, except for the day of memory that we are here, for which we have decided here in the Croatian Parliament and which, which is not a holiday, is a day of memory there are many others. In fact, every day somewhere from August here until the end of the year every day could be a day that we would somehow mark in the Croatian Assembly as a day of memory of Vukovar. Here's the anniversary,... Oh, yeah, of course. [[You can't hear it.]] Here's fellow Milas mentions dates, so, from the beginning of the first provocations, of course, since the beginning of the siege, etc. And here's the anniversary of the death of General Blago Zadar, wasn't it the same time that we were able to do the same here in the Assembly in some way and in every way remember it because it was one of those generals, or one of those soldiers and Croatian defenders who really set the example for everyone and could be a role model for everyone and then they were a role model for all the Vukovars and all those defenders of Vukovar. The treasure of Zadar was always the first, and then his soldiers were behind him and he cared about life and the fate of everyone. So politics in these events shouldn't be a place. I mean vulgar politics and I think of those, and there are those that say we've never been to Vukovar in a memory column but here this year we'll come for some reason. Well, I mean the one who hasn't been since 18 November '98. It does not have to come particularly now until 2014. But all those who come must be welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88613	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88614	Thank you very much. I agree with you colleagues that a high level of protection of the rights of national minorities has been achieved in Croatia. Unlike some countries that have taught us exactly that area and the area of high so-called. democracy. Here's the French you mentioned and there are no national minorities. All those living in France are French, there are no national minorities in that country, they say. Although both Baska and the Germans live in Alsace and Valonca in the north, etc., I did not want to talk about it. On that, especially about Vukovar and the Constitutional Court's decision, I'd say something else. That for 20 years and more than what happened, those tragedies in Vukovar, that true forgiveness would require true repentance. So, a statement of what was also repentance. Then you can ask for forgiveness and get sincere forgiveness. I've never forgotten, but forgiveness may or may not be. But we've never heard real regrets about what happened in Vukovar. About the fact that you said that the situation moved slightly better in Croatia at the expense of these 138 million kunas, that is correct. If we had a billion and 380 million kuna, we would be hearing almost the same things here as some representatives of national minorities have said. But here on page 33 we have a total number of employees in state administration bodies that increased by 2% in the last year, so from 51 800 to 52 691 or less than 2% of total employees, and the number of people belonging to national minorities in those same bodies has increased by 8%. So it's moving. And you're absolutely right about that. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88615	Thank you, too. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88616	Yeah, I couldn't agree more. I don't think I have that information, I haven't actually dealt with it, but now I'm going to try to see, say, in EU Member States if there's anything like this, is there such a report that he's talking about? I don't think so, so I don't think that anywhere in such a way can be seen transparently how much money is invested in, say, cultural autonomy and all the other segments that make up the care of members of national minorities. But that he can always do better, of course. However, that we must be proud of what we have done talks and facts, you have also mentioned some countries, and I will not talk about countries now, but I will talk about some countries from both the recent past and their relationship with the Roma. And when you look at it, there are some EU countries, as well, about eviction decisions, etc. Imagine that it happened, and it didn't happen and it won't happen in Croatia. And imagine if it had happened at the time of our negotiations, so that would be, we would never close the negotiations. But it didn't happen and it's not going to happen because we've really made our own standards a framework that we move a little bit by bit. You were talking about sincere remorse. Yeah, I agree. Honest remorse is always crucial. As long as remorse, no matter what it is, when we do something bad to someone else if remorse isn't true, then there's no true love and no real respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88617	Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88618	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs, Kosor, you said that the Roma national minority is more sensitive than all other national minorities in Croatia, and I fully agree with that. I also fully agree with your finding that education is the most effective way of socialising members of the Roma national minority but I do not agree that good results are achieved in the field of education. I will try to illustrate this on the example of the Međimurje County where it is the most, relatively the most Roma in Croatia and where the local environment actually invests both the great will and the great financial means to ensure conditions for quality co-existence. By claiming that will is always more important than the financial means themselves. So one of the biggest problems about why there are no particularly large educational shifts is that there is still no guarantee of complete coverage of Roma children in primary school education. So one large number of children remain out of the system and there is almost no progress there although there is primary education required. Furthermore, in primary schools, 16% of Roma children are Roma and only 4% are in secondary schools. So we see that a large number of children in primary schools, that a small number of children continue high school education. In 10 years, for example, as many as 2,000 Roma children remained, so they did not finish primary school. They leave primary school in fifth grade. Also in the last ten years, only 118 Roma children from Međimurje County have completed high school despite the implementation of a reduction in the score threshold for enrolment in the desired high school and the award of scholarships from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to Roma children at 500 kuna per month, with the result of that scholarship not being conditional on regular teaching and not on the successful completion of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88619	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88620	Thank you very much. Well esteemed colleagues, of course, that without the cooperation of both parents and the whole community, the Roma community without cooperation, however, and the local community, cannot. I was comparing the data, the fact that this report stated that several Roma children were also involved in preschool education, and that's what I was talking about in primary school. So these are some small shifts for the better, but of course without this firm cooperation and without the right goal, we can't go on without the right plan. So we have a lot of work to do, but I think when we compare this data to the data from 15 years ago, it's very, very visible, right in Međimurje County.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88621	We continue to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly on the same topic. Honorable representative Ante Babic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88622	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers Bauk, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit to the Croatian Assembly at least once a year a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of the funds provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities, although the National Minorities Council says that this is from 30.6, but I think that these weeks when the Government referred it to the Parliament procedure are not at all a problem. I would like to remind you that this year for the second time we are discussing this report, the Government report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law, because, as you probably remember, we were discussing the 2012 report at the beginning of this year. In most cases, the 2013 report does not differ from the 2012 report. It covers different areas of the exercise of the rights of national minorities and the spending of funds secured in the state budget which finance the exercise of the right of national minorities from the equal use of the official language of national minorities, the preservation of traditional labels and names, and the use of signs and symbols of national minorities, education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, the right to manifest religion and the establishment of religious communities, access to means of public communication, cultural autonomy, housing, etc. Behind each chapter were held, actual assessments of the situation and recommendations for further action in the exercise of individual rights of national minorities by the Government were contained. These assessments and recommendations also give rise to a positive assessment of the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of budgets for that purpose. When it comes to the equal use of the official language and letters of national minorities, it is said that members of a particular national minority account for at least one third of the local population in a total of 27 units of local self-government in 23 and in one member of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, the Italian minority in one unit of local self-government. This results in the right of members of national minorities to use their language and letters equally in those units of local self-government under the Constitutional Law. Accordingly, the local self-government units concerned were obliged to comply with their statutes with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The supervision of the implementation of this obligation is here by the competent Minister of the Bauk and the relevant Ministry of Administration. In view of the fact that there is no legal time limit for the harmonisation of the statutes of units of local self-government with the Constitutional Law of the Ministry of Administration, it has given the opinion that the stated obligation is to be met by an "appropriate deadline" and that the appropriate time limit should not be more than 6 months from the date of the official publication of the 2011 census. All of this results in a formal-legal assumption for the introduction into the official use of language and letter of national minorities in units of local self-government, where at least one third of the local population is made up of members of a specific national minority to adopt the statutes of units of local self-government that will regulate the use of the language and letters of the national minority in the local self-government unit concerned. Despite such views, however, and the legal understanding of the Ministry of Administration and its action in concrete situations and resolving the problem of bilingualism in the units of local self-government that meet the conditions laid down in the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the problem of bilingualism in the City of Vukovar has not been taken into account in a violent and totally inappropriate manner in the terms of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and, in particular, in the case of Article 8, which states that all the provisions of the Constitutional Law, as well as the Law on the Equal Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, must be interpreted and applied to the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, development, understanding, compatibility and dialogue between them. All the time causing tension and crisis in connection with the installation of bilingual panels in the City of Vukovar, we have indicated and have appealed to respect for Article 8. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, however, the Government and its relevant bodies remained deaf to requests for compliance with Article 8 and, with the application of force and placed bilingual panels on the facilities in which administrative and judicial bodies were located in the city of Vukovar. That our warnings about the illegal conduct of the Government on the establishment of bilingual panels have been established, we find, in fact, a confirmation in the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 August 2014, which was manifested at the request for a referendum of the Staff for the Defence of the City of Vukovar. The Constitutional Court has determined that the City Council of Vukovar shall, within one year, prescribe and regulate the entire area, i.e. for certain parts of the city of Vukovar, individual rights of members of national minorities to the official use of their language and letters, and public obligations of the state and public authorities which it considers to correspond to the life facts and factual circumstances in the city of Vukovar, in an extent that does not only endanger the essence of these rights, while respecting the needs of the majority of Croatian people who originate with the still living consequences of the Greater-Serbian aggression and the need for a fair and proper treatment of the Serbian national minority in the area of Vukovar. The Constitutional Court also obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer within one year to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, which will arrange an appropriate legal mechanism for cases where the representative bodies of the units of local self-government do not implement obligations under the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, or... its implementation. The Constitutional Court also laid down that during the period until the amendments to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, the competent national authorities would not implement the law in the City of Vukovar using forced measures. This decision of the Constitutional Court gives rise to an unambiguous obligation that the problem of the equal use of the language and letters of national minorities in certain units of local self-government must be dealt with exclusively by legal means, and by law based on means, and by no means by using coercive measures because forced measures as we witnessed in Vukovar do not really contribute, nor do they comply with the spirit and letter of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. In spite of this, we are also witnessing these days that the Government of the Republic of Croatia rather than respecting the Constitutional Court's decision and working on amendments to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities continues to insist on placing bilingual panels on all state bodies in the city of Vukovar, which only continues to implement its policy in the city of Vukovar by creating additional tensions that will have a long-term negative impact on building mutual understanding of tolerance and dialogue between members of the Serb national minority and Croatian people in the city of Vukovar. The problem of bilingual panels in Vukovar, which has occupied the attention of the Croatian public over the past year and a half, has completely overshadowed the scope and level of the exercise of the rights of national minorities in Croatia, which are definitely at the highest level in Croatia, which is almost unknown in other and not just European countries. This refers to education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, according to model A, in which the teaching is performed in the language and letter of national minorities, then by model B and model C, why more than 32 million kunas were spent. For the protection of sacral objects, publishing activity, programmes, institutions of national minorities, music, music and stage art and dramatic art, more than 9 million kunas were allocated to preserve only cultural heritage of members of the Serb national minority spent nearly €5.5 million on 60 programmes, while in 2012 when only 2.5 million kuna was spent for the same needs, means a 100% increase. In total, more than 39 million kunas were spent in the national budget for cultural autonomy of associations and institutions of national minorities in 2013. For the housing that we have heard of today's refugee members of national minorities and former tenants in 2013 nearly 8.5 million kuna were spent and 20 million kuna was spent to finance the Council and representatives of national minorities from the budget of local self-government units. In total, more than 138 million kunas were allocated for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2013. For the sake of comparisons, the financial support data for the Croatian national minorities in the 12 European countries in 2013 totalling, you will not believe, only 3 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88623	Thank you, Your Honor. Now it's the replicas. The first replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88624	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you spoke of Vukovar and here are the actions of the Government who, despite the constitutional court's recommendation, wants and challenges in reality before this coming Colony of Memory tensions and you said quite well the tensions in Vukovar among the people who are really sensitive there. You were also talking about Croatia's concern for national minorities, you were talking about the resources being allocated and somehow you get the impression that the Serb national minority is somehow the largest minority, and the largest funds are being allocated to it. I'd love to, I don't have that information, know how much it stands out in Serbia for the Croatian national minority, I'd like the same, and I don't know, maybe you know if our government has reacted now that there's been a match in Serbia on those unimaginable words. But I would like someone in the Parliament today when it comes to the Serbian National Minority is also fenced from those sentences, has finally been fenced from the worship of Croats because it creates all sorts of unrest and that would be nice. And we would have a different feeling that everyone would have together in our Croatia and the citizens of Vukovar would feel differently. This is how tensions are created, whether someone wants to do it on purpose or is simply glad to listen to what happens at games, what happens in Serbia, and they refer to Croatians and Croatians. I had to get involved, although I didn't want to, but I'm also really interested in the resources that are being allocated, and here's this government attitude and how people react at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88625	Thank you very much. Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88626	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Sumrak I will tell you in figures, Croatia's national minority in the Republic of Serbia received 130,000 euros in 2012 as some cca 1.2 million kuna. for this year, certain funds have been provided for which they have not yet been delivered. What you said was whether the government reacted to this game that took place, I know it wasn't, not only the Government is not even Foreign Minister Vesna Pusic, and neither is the president of our country, Mr Ivo Josipovic. He's got some part-time job on the election campaign right now. The state of security of the Croatian national minority at this point outside the Republic of Croatia is certainly not interested in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88627	Dear Representative Melita Mulic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88628	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Babic, you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club and spoke about the application of Article 8 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I will remind you just because you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club that the president of your current party defended this report in 2010 and praised him for how two units of local self-government, one of them has a statute adopted by the HDZ coalition, the SDSS and the HSP, and I will read to you what it says in that statute, which is Article 61, which says "In accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and this Statute, members of the Serbian National Minority have the right to free use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters in social and public life, and in official communication in public affairs and self-government of the city of Vukovar". No one has ever been from your government at a time when we joined the EU slowed constitutionality or some other interpretation of the article of this constitutional law, it only became a problem when elections were to be organised in the city of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88629	Thank you very much. Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88630	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Mulić, you are right and everything, I told you that if you followed closely that 1/3 of the population that makes up certain units of local self-government belong to them and certain rights under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and there is nothing disputed. You know life isn't static, it's dynamic, circumstances change. Then the circumstances changed in Vukovar, and you know it very well, and we kept saying it. If you remember I kept talking then Mr. Minister of Management Bauk also said that setting up a record in the city of Vukovar would be a holiday of democracy. If I remember then it all happened at night and it irritated the majority of the Croatian population. As soon as you have population irritation and increased tension, it is logical that something was wrong, we also called for Article 8 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. On the other hand, you and I often talk about it on the boards and the HDZ's position that I will bring here about national minorities without any figurines in my pocket I said that it is a shame and because of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia who consume their rights that they only use them for that national minority by not sharing them with the majority of the people, and then I said that I would never be an assimilation of the national minority and this case for its ghettoisation, but I am simply for the national minority to integrate with all its positive things into Croatian society, which is also intensity, and the position of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88631	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88632	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your colleague Babić in his presentation amongst other things, you touched the level of the amount. I would not trouble the amount of amounts, for example, obtained by the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia, nor do I believe that the rights of any national minority should be reduced in any way, so should the Serb national minority. However, I would like to warn of what has been done as a failure, I believe, above all, by the government of the Republic of Croatia which can address the issue. Namely, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia have a signed bilateral agreement that I believe is not fully respected. It also determines the reciprocity in which it is regulated, regulated heights, i.e. the extent to which the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia must be financed as well. And I believe that this is also the place, and here we have the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ask the question in plain terms why the bilateral agreement is not respected and why those provisions that are prescribed there are not respected, because the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia has no rights as prescribed. Once again, I am speaking in no way prejudged that the funds should be reduced to the Serbian national minority or to any other national minority in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88633	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88634	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, fellow Glavak, if you've read it, I see that this report on the spending of national minority rights, then you might have noticed that in this chapter that's related to bilateral agreements, the government is contradictory. She says the Republic of Croatia is constantly paying attention to the implementation of so far signed bilateral agreements on the protection of the rights of national minorities, and during 2013 there was no activity related to meetings and meetings of those intergovernmental mixed committees for minorities. Now, the agreement you mentioned in the Republic of Croatia has five more countries. It is also Montenegro and Italy, Hungary, Macedonia. And we accepted an agreement from 1955 concerning Austria, or the Croatians of Cities. So, in 2011, the intergovernmental mixed committee met for the last time, and of course they didn't discuss these things. I will tell you, for example, the Croatian national minority in Serbia has not been represented either in the parliamentary or representative bodies and since last year there has been no representative in the National Assembly. You saw these scenes about textbooks to the Croatian national minority and then they actually split up to the Bunjevci on Cyrillic. But not only in Cyrillic, they're written in Serbian. For example, I don't know what to say. This is football. This is not football. It means both Cyrillic and Serbian. You heard and saw in fact what Tomislav Nikolic spoke of the Bunjevci as an autochton of the South Slav group, which is unforgivable to any politician in the Republic of Croatia from the president of the state, the foreign minister to the Prime Minister, to speak at all in any way to the representatives of such a minority, and what is even worse to give them passports through the General Consulate in Subotica, they are given passports which are not definitely good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88635	Thank you very much. It was the response of the respected representative Ante Babic. A new replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88636	Well, fellow Babic, I am sorry that you, as representative of the main opposition party, have not devoted more time to the value courts or views of your party, but have devoted a considerable amount of time to the fact that it is more or less generally known. I would find it interesting to hear, in fact, the specific attitudes and the courts and positions your party is taking on these questions about which you were actually factography. However, when it comes to some problems or these topics that have been opening up lately, especially in Vukovar, I think that some of them are also partly arising from, in some way, my court, so I am speaking for myself, a certain lack of national emancipation of the Croatian people, and especially Croatian people as a state-of-the-art people. And that's why sometimes there's a problem actually in the relationship that comes up. And on the other hand, we have, for example, we had the Erdutic Agreement, we had some provisions that were short-lived, did they have their own deadline. The deadlines have passed, but in fact some things have remained like the moratorium of learning modern Croatian history. There is a period of several years, a period has passed, and in fact it has become a practice. And we have actually shown that as a state and as a people we are not emancipated enough that we can simply implement these things as something that is part of our statehood. It's not a question of our relationship. This contract has ended, so let's choose to follow Croatian laws for all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88637	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88638	You and I, my colleague Djurovic, know everything that happened in that part, you are far better than I am. Of course certain things are evaluating and it's always good when it's going in a positive direction and no one might even talk about this if those things hadn't happened in Vukovar. There's been a lot of talk here today, and I can only repeat myself about Vukovar. It is a pity that the government itself had no hearing so that such things did not happen and could have been made far, far more subtle that this article was actually fully implemented. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. And as for our valuable attitude, I said, perhaps you didn't hear because you were talking there. The Croatian Democratic Community is not for assimilation, it is not for ghettoisation. It is for the integration of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88639	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88640	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, I'm convinced that no one here is for assimilation, but no one is for ghettoization as it seems, despite the time period that has passed since '91. the year of the 18th of May or of peaceful reintegration, so from 1 January of '98. the year of the peaceful reintegration period. And here's that '98. 16 years have passed and all those agreements, according to a colleague Đurovic, where the Croatian people and Croatia have not really participated in some way what was perfectly normal to implement after the end of those erdutic agreements and the annexes for which I do not know about, I received an answer to the question about annexes by the foreign ministry that they do not know about any annexes. Very interesting. So, I would say that this is not the emancipation of the Croatian state in this area but rather, and in some sense, let's go under quotes to say a masochism that does not really foresee the implementation of Croatian laws and textbooks and school programs mainly from history in this area. Well, we're witnessing and going to the memorial of 12 directors in Borovo Selo and we see that 300 meters away is a monument to the executioner over those 12 directors. And it exists in the Croatian state completely normal. A monument to the massacred defenders and a 300 m away monument to the executioner. What kind of state does such a thing exist? And who are we and what are we? Yeah, I don't want to say it, I don't want any assimilation, but I don't want to say it. I don't want any assimilation. I don't want to say it. I don't want any assimilation. And he's here? [[Leko: No, it's not.]] Yes, Mr. Minister, since you are already here to write us how much of these 138 million kunas have been spent on each and all of those items that have been spent, so for housing, for the return of the displaced population, for representation of members of national minorities, etc. Let's see the exact ratio of the money spent on a particular national minority, but in all items. That would be very interesting to look at. I am convinced that this would be very interesting to look at and compare some kind of representation to the number and amount of money used for a particular minority. It's not here, so I'm asking you to continue to insist that it be in the report. Secondly, when the previous reports were here on the assembly benches then it was written that for the Ukrainians in the area of Brod-Posavina County were spent, so 3,000 kunas were given. And in that report she wrote a second sentence, it's not known how they were spent. There's not one item here, although the items are much bigger, I'm not talking about Ukrainians, so what with 3,000 kunas can buy, is there a couple of cases of beer, if it's some day to say Taras Chevchenko's Day of the Ukrainian hero and poet, writer and creator of the modern Ukrainian thought. So, if it was this celebration, then those 3,000 kunas even had an explanation of what they were spent in, and it said we don't have any feedback in what they're into. We're talking millions and hundreds of thousands of kunas here. Here, for example. The last page of this report, page 97, which lists the functioning of the councils and representatives of national minorities in the City of Zagreb. And then we have a spending of funds. For what it's spent, I'd like to know the specifications of those costs. Why was it spent? Here we have almost even amounts that are very equal for all national minorities in the City of Zagreb but there are no reports for what, specifically why is it spent? For example, Albanians spend the amount of money spent on 340 thousand kuna programmes. What were they spent on? I'd like to know. I don't deny that these funds have been spent or I'm talking about that they've been wrongly spent or nothing but that we know what these funds have been spent on here too. So, to make reports more comprehensive and to have feedback on spending. However, the Croatian Parliament decides here on all of this. The Croatian Parliament will also adopt this report. But to know what the funds were spent on. I said in one replica, and if we had ten times as many, one billion and 380 million kunas, again, would probably be similar complaints, similar discussions, some less equal, some more equal, etc. And there would also be a debate here about that and about these funds. When we talk about Vukovar, and we see that here in the report on the use of bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar is very much written. I wonder if it was before, and there were no such reports, is it because of the indignation of the government itself, God forbid it was then forgiven, or was the situation for this year such as that, or the past, that the government is therefore a lot in its report which should have been explained I don't know 9 ministers here how much is written as Mrs. Kosor said it was 9 and here we only have one minister of administration, right? So, what in this report has made the writer of this report say almost 4 or 5 pages only about bilingual boards, so Cyrillic-Latinic and latin-cyrillic in Vukovar? Is it really a grizzly after the violent introduction of these boards and sets or something? On November 18th last year, I was in Vukovar, a day earlier, the Vukovar Defense Department tore up or removed all the Cyrillic tablets. It was expected, as was the case, that the same night would be re-established by the government of the Republic of Croatia as it normally is. They tear off by day, they put on new tables at night. No, they weren't put until the memory column passed. So why is there no courage for Minister Bauk to set up a day before the memory column to put those tables back where he had put them four or five times? No, he didn't put them on that day, but as soon as the difference of the memory columns was made, at night from 18 to 19 November they were put back on. And so to engage with Croatian citizens, not only with Croatians, but also with all others, and then here we write this report, which at the end of the year the Constitutional Court seems very fair, here from my personal impression, a very fair decision of 12 August this year completely changed and changed. When we talk about tolerance, when we talk about all those elements that make up one co-existence, one good co-existence, one good living side by side, it doesn't have to be a co-existence, and that's one word or flossula that came out of that former state. But life, good neighbor's life, good neighbourly relations, etc. Then I need to know, as I said and in the replica that whoever,... And in order for that to be, then we must forgive, and beautiful and beautiful is the feeling of forgiveness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in order for a man to forgive he must see who is responsible for what has been done, and that is not how to judge it, not to say genocide, that within himself or to publicly show remorse. In that column of memories are those who, to say the least, belong to one group or to a national minority so that they show remorse, to say we're sorry, sorry, it didn't happen again, then it's easy. We have a memorial in Jasenovac, which means memorialization, memory of victims, that Croatian people, Croatian citizens, express their memory of victims and Serbs, and Roma, and Jews and those who were different in political opinion, Croats, so we know who they are. So, the memory of the victims no matter who was there and the representatives of the government, and representatives of parties and all churches, all religions are there, right, we all know that. But it's a memory of that tragedy. We have a tragedy in Boricovac, but it's not a memorial, it's a celebration. That hurts, that hurts. The 27.7th celebration was held and 27,000 Croats were killed in Lica a day earlier. And then it is celebrated, and then we say there are 51, according to counterpart Melita Mulic, 51 incidents international compared to 28 2012 in areas of special state concern. So look, fellow Members, did you say how many Croats did and how many Serbs? So, of those 51 incidents that occurred which is of criminal significance, not criminal, criminal significance, so they got in a fight, maybe even slapped a little bit, etc. But good. 14 were done by Croats, 12 Serbs, and others by some other NN writings. Why point that out when there's no need. And he says the increase is 19%, you can imagine. In 2012, there were 28 such incidents, 2013. 51, God forbid there should be no one, wherever I am fortunate, I would love to. But if we're going to discuss it then let's look at the statistics, let's look at that report, and we'll see that that's the situation that it is, so that's what I said, that's what it says here. They say representation of members of national minorities in government authorities and professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, let's start with Parliament as the highest representative body and let's face it, and let's face it, but I don't want to count this as not nice, let's start with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, agencies, ministries etc. But if we are already talking about the statistics that came out, it is said that in 2012, the total number of employees in state administrations was 51 864a 2013. 52 690 or 827 more. So 827 people across Croatia are employed. The number of employed members of national minorities was 1752 and 2013. 1853 which is an increase not by less than 2%, but by 8%. So, in some ways, there is a tendency to slowly correct and correct the situation. Although here we have seen some dissatisfaction that they say they cannot be employed in state bodies, in courts, etc. I believe that proportionally there may be such, I believe it, I didn't say it wasn't so, but the tendency from this report can be seen to be better. Let's look at the schooling and let's say fellow Radin he knows very well how it happens in Istria where there is no 33% of the Italian national minority. But you look at preschool education where she says she's in preschool education, you can help me, Mr Furio, not look for me, Italian in preschool childcare, 1125. How many children in Croatia are born annually? 40 grand, about 40 grand, let's round it up like that. How much is born in Istria County, so we count that the Istrian County is the twentieth part of Croatia or something slightly higher, so we count that over 1,500 children are annually. He's going to preschool in 1125. What does that mean? that they are all covered by almost all of them also by learning Italian. So I think that the degree of protection of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia is the highest not in European terms but in the world. I cited France as a bad example, and we were trained by European laws at the highest standards, and Croatia accepted them and applied them. I wish they'd been accepted by others and looked up to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88641	Thank you very much. Now we have a few replicas. The first replica, the respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88642	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic, I came forward for a reason because you mentioned some phenomena but there was probably no time to elaborate them, so I'm going to do it now in this minute and a half that I have. Are we asking ourselves and you a question both us and the current Government of the Republic of Croatia guilty of some of the events that took place in Vukovar regarding bilingual inscriptions and many other phenomena in the Republic of Croatia? I think so. Why? So when some negative situations occurred, the occurrences did not occur in time or did not respond at all. It is true that fellow representatives of national minorities here in the Parliament sometimes reacted but were not consistent when it came to insulting the symbols and insulting the majority of people within Croatia. For example. esteemed colleagues and colleagues do not react foreign policy to President Tom Nikolic's words that Vukovar is a Serbian town, that the Shokci and Bunjevs are not Croats, that they do not give up on the concept of Vukovar, Karlovac, Karlobag, and still a prominent Serbian journalist at the time of the campaign declares that he was present in the village of Antino and did some indifference. We don't react, we don't react to knife, wire, Srebrenica, we don't respond to the burning of Croatian symbols at games and we don't react, for example. Kills, kills Croats that Shiptar doesn't have a brother and stuff. It's not nice here for a pay phone here to repeat because in the stadiums it's their reason to repeat it again from the game to the game. But I think that we, both as Government and as Parliament, could have reacted in time and prevented some of these negative phenomena in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88643	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88644	Thank you very much. Dear Djurdjevic, you reminded me of many of the things that were happening, and in which there was so-called. already established and deeply established Croatian silence. Well, this government also conducts Croatian silence standardly and then says when I said on the Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia, and why the government did not react more strongly or strongly to what you said that the Bunjeci did not let me know which group of Slavs, etc. Then they said the Foreign Ministry sent a note. Oh, I mean, that's how much these Nicolas got scared of the note right now or they sent some music notes, I don't know. Furthermore, when the Croatian flag was lit at the handball championship in Novi Sad at the time he was the sports minister not Mr. Sailar but the one before him, I do not want to mention fellow MPs, then he did not react at all to that, none of it at all. After all, it is a symbol of the Croatian state, an official symbol of the Croatian state. No Ustasha flag burned, Croatian flag burned, trampled, spit. The minister who was present at the handball meeting didn't react at all as if I didn't know who it was. We don't need and we don't ask for any privileges, but let's wake up people once and for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88645	Dear colleague of Parliament Melita Mulic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88646	Thank you, Mr. President. There used to be an institution in this House to correct an incorrect allegation, unfortunately we don't have one anymore, and my colleague Grubisic, if I were a little less naughty, I'd say you're twisting the facts, and if I were a little more naughty, I'd say you're lying. And since I'd risk a warning then I'll just warn you about a pay phone you usurp public speakers, people listen to us, and you're telling the truth about some sort of ghoul you were talking about, so I'll just warn you when it comes to bilingualism in Vukovar, there are three parameters in one of them, a colleague Kosor said there was a statistical error, and about the initiative of the MPs 1/3, not 113 for amendments to the Constitutional Law. And the other thing you said was you referred to my exposure on behalf of the club when I was talking about hate crimes. I've been very precise saying you know a hate crime is being treated under the Penal Code. It is not that the Serb Croat or Croat stole a Serbian chicken, and that is what the precise report states about hate crimes that have increased by 29.1% in the past year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88647	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88648	Thank you very much. Comrade Mulic, I don't know what you're seeing what you're saying, I wouldn't speak so uglyly, it's beneath my level, so you're talking about a lie. What did I lie about Vukovar or did you actually do all the time and you're actually hiding behind some constitutional laws and I don't know what? And you have a nice article 8 and you have the opportunity to view Vukovar as a special pitet. Do you even know what was going on there? Were you ever in Vukovar before 18.11. or were you in Vukovar in '99? Did you see that Vukovar died worse than Hiroshima? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As my colleague Kosor said, it was both urobocide and all kinds of cid. And then you say something about Vukovar, your government that came out of what it came from, there's no filling at all, there's no feeling for Vukovar. And as far as statistics are concerned, I thought that you, I was, if I'm confused, tell me about page 49 and table and if that's the table, then it says nicely that the nationality of the perpetrator is 5, 10, 12 Serbian and 14 Croatian. I don't know what you're talking about. I didn't say any of them, I said I wasn't for any of those acts. I wish there wasn't one, God forbid there was no incident, that we lived like people in peace, calm and at peace. But no regrets, no rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88649	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88650	I refer to Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament concerning the insult and demeaning of parliamentary representatives, because my colleague Grubisic, that I was in Vukovar and before last year, many times the anniversary and the markings when what happened. And therefore, you and anyone else have no right to measure the amount of patriotism and measure the amount of sensitivity that we feel is me, the SDP club or the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88651	You're aware there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and as far as I know, there was a question of whether or not you were, not a claim at all. [[You can't hear it.]] Dear Representative Zvonko Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88652	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My replica will go about as a sequel to what my colleague Grubisic said. So it concerns Vukovar, but what I would say is a few words that my colleague mentioned in the debate, which are tolerance, forgiveness, remorse. So, all that's used unfortunately as a flossula. And I really think that reason and conversation is what needs to be preceded by making every solution, every decision. In that sense, almost two years ago, I tried to give the Prime Minister an actual hour to find out what might happen in Vukovar, and I think I'm right because I was born in Vukovar and I'm the defender of Vukovar. But what happened happened. So there was no understanding or will to settle it by talking to all those who do, who live there, and it could, even for a certain time. And then I ask myself a question when we talk about who passed that law and who brought the Statute, who did. Is that important? Aren't we all aware that this law to push him blindly in front of a man won't do these people any good. If it's not man-made, then it's bad, so let's review it and look for something better, something different. But let's talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88653	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88654	Thank you very much. Comrade Milas, we are for reason and for a reasonable conversation with all parties, of course and with representatives of national minorities living in Vukovar. And they know well, there's no one here to tell. I asked Mr. Horvat before, do you know that before '91? There were no signs of the municipalities of Vukovar, Builder, Vutex, none of them, Borovo, were written on Cyrillic. Now 20 years later and more there is some kind of insistence, and we know what is what to the Croatian people of Vukovar and all of Croatia. Not only were there defenders and Serbs. ... That's right, that's right. [[You can't hear it.]] Therefore, give some reason and tolerance on both sides. So let's show a pitet for our Vukovar who is indeed the Hiroshima of modern Croatian history after Udbina in the 16th century and beyond. Excuse me, 15th, late 15th century.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88655	Thank you very much. A new replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88656	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you spoke of forgiveness, repentance in principle. I really thought when I was mayor of the city of Vukovar that the point of repentance would be completed on the day that Serbian President Boris Tadic was in Vukovar. And I don't know now who should apologize to the Croatian state and to the Vukovars if spoken of as an aggressor in Serbia, and he was then, which was certainly not well received in the Republic of Serbia, was able as a great statesman to ask forgiveness and did repentance and at Ovcara along with representatives of the Serbian National Community here in our Croatia. You spoke and mentioned a lot of mentions to Hiroshima, which I also said as mayor that it was also for many ambassadors that Croatia was the Hiroshima city of Vukovar. But why don't we go a little further, see how it marks the day of death in Japan, Hiroshima and Nagasaki, so let's say 18.11. pray for the Vukovar Mass in Nagasaki or Hiroshima. But then they send a clear message to the world that it never happens again anywhere and they want it, but they don't mention war, nor aggressor, nor English, nor English, nor any other resident of any country that participated in World War II versus the state of Japan. I'd really like to believe that you're all welcome to Vukovar not only 18, but every day. but don't use Vukovar for day-to-day political purposes on behalf of the victim and Vukovar. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88657	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88658	Thank you very much, fellow Sabo, for your replica. I didn't mean to use Vukovar or use it. But what you said about Mr. Tadic, remember Mr. Brandt, Willi Brandt, is the German Chancellor who went to Poland and showed remorse. One is regret, the noun regrets, and the other is remorse, you know. She's a lot harder, she's got a lot more weight regret than regret. That's it. And you must know well what it was then when Tadic was there, regret or remorse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88659	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, respected Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What to say now that there are fewer than 20 of us together with the cameramen and the service, that there are no children here I greet, there is no television. I mean, it seems like one conversation between acquaintances, everyone knows what the other will say, you know exactly what I'm going to say, I know what you're going to say and in the end that there is no stenogram and these statistics in the Assembly that talk about how much we're going to talk and the obligation we feel and future Mr Grubisic that I'm going to talk about you now would be better if you didn't go so that you could replicate me, I warned you. So there's so few of us to see who's leaving, right? So I'm gonna have to say a little bit. Everyone has their own story. You and I both have a story of our own. Any member of any nation and any minority could tell their story here in this House. I'm not going to tell you my story because I've been telling it here for 22 years, so it would be too much, it would be kind of a mobbing on my part to burden you again with that. But, however, I agree with Mr. Saba and with what he said before that if something worse, war is a terrible thing, if something worse than war is to live from war. I've always been impressed by one thing that makes something that deals with human rights called headquarters, for example? The headquarters is a continuation of the war. The word itself points to it, it's a soldier's, it's a soldier's term. I was in Vukovar talking to members of headquarters. Of course I don't know the story as well as Mr. Sabo can know it or as he can know the story and I say Mr. Grubisic the same one that's much closer to Vukovar than I am. But you should understand, we should all understand that after 20 years of the end of the war and almost 23, 24, 25 years of the horrors that happened in Vukovar, we should start thinking about actually bringing things back to reconciliation. How do you come by reconciliation? In such a way that you speak of yourself and your sins to say, if you have them, I allow others to speak of their own. It happens here all the time. World War II, Homeland War, everyone talks about their story. I don't think I'm gonna rise above it now because I've talked about my story too many times. I'm actually putting myself together with you in that whole story. But let's not always look and always say what others should do. Let's tell them and give them an example. Constantly returning, based on the replicas that were now the last replicas. Continued to discuss the Constitutional Law Implementation Report is not just a matter of Vukovar. 17 of the 27 units of local self-government where bilingualism should be introduced even 12 years after the adoption of the Constitutional Law in 17 means in two-thirds it was not adopted. And why is that? Is bilingualism violence? Does bilingualism wipe out the Croatian language? Bilingualism is something that in the future, I assure you as you will now literally tomorrow be with your ID cards, the day after tomorrow will be with google or some other forms of glasses where everyone will see what they want in the language that they want and everyone will speak their own language and others will understand it in their own language because they will translate all digitally and all will be watched and seen. Everyone will have their own world if they want to. Someone will come to Vukovar, put on google glasses and see everything on Cyrillic, everything. Someone won't, and they'll see everything on the latin. Someone will see it in both Latin and Cyrillic, so they'll say I'm from the NGO, I'm a humanist, and I want to see it in both languages, and I'm sorry for both letters. It's not funny, it's gonna happen. As if it weren't bilingual, it would be a thousand-lingual card, it would be like a bank card that we use and that has millions of data in it. The natural thing is that technology won't solve the problems of human relations, it'll make up a new one, but it won't be you anymore, it won't be you, we'll have to fight because there seems to be one urge to argue in us, we'll have to argue about some other things. I hope those other things are more serious than using language. Why, let's hard why the Serbs want to have their letter in Vukovar? For one reason only, and not because they don't know the Latin, they certainly know the Latin letter, they just want to say it, and we're out of here, it's a matter of identity. Why do we Italians want to have more cases, in a number of cases, we have bilingualism, not because we can't read, we don't know that the street means via, but because it shows that we're home. It's a matter of identity. Do you mind if we feel at home there? I don't think so, they all said no. I don't have another homeland from Pula, Istria, we're talking about narrow country. It's my home, not my country, it's my home. There they all lived, there they all spoke that language that I speak now there, that Italian diction, the estrangement. Which is why I'm supposed to speak, I'll never speak a different language, and I'll always try to make that language of mine present, that's positive. Before Mr. Grubisic, and I'm going to say it now, you don't have to give me a line about it, before you mentioned to me when Mr. Cain was talking about the exodus of the Italians, you said and no one was saying exodus in the Croats. My family had, parts of my family were both in the first and second exodus. Both towards Zagreb and towards Italy and South America. What am I supposed to say now? But just because 350 thousand people from Istria, I don't know if they were all Italians, they were all driven to the Italian state or beyond, they all left. 350 thousand have led to the signing of international contracts that are being respected today, must comply with certain rules. And now don't be angry, but between, I already said that once in that pay phone, 360 thousand Serbs are missing on the voter lists between 91 and 2001. So, of course, there must be some corrections, some positive discrimination to be used, and not now that we, those who are left with what kind of connections, what guilt do those who are left with? Those who stayed want to live with the Croats, those who remained Italians in Istria wanted to live with the Croats, with Slovenians upstairs. And so let's not, first let's not say that he had the best legislation in the world, I say that I brought him in all those years with big battles that don't work, in many parts it doesn't work. And when it starts to work there are constitutionally which interrupts it, and it doesn't work, I tell you it doesn't work, it's like, I'll use what I said before, as if the pilot has a protocol on how to fly and never fly. I mean, protocol is good, but it doesn't work. A law that doesn't work is not a good law, it's not a good law. I think there's a reason inside that they're deliberately placed that it doesn't work that's obvious, it has to be so, I think what's going to be different. If it's written, for example. Members of national minorities may exercise their right to an additional right to vote. And then she says here's a note saying that she can, it says yes, I'd like to... It can mean it doesn't have to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the answer. So it says it can be presented positively to Europe to the world, and write the seas when they have to answer to us. And so there are countless of them. I know what I am, what battles were here in 2000 when we passed the laws on the use of language and the law on education in the languages of national minorities. There was a terrible battle, we were supposed to wait for it to come in 2000, and when it came in 2000, there were battles about it again because it didn't want to end when it happened, when it came to it, and when we ended it, for example. That there's a minimum number of students in the classrooms, and then now year by year we're trying to put that number with other methods. And now this year, we've faced it the same way this year. And then we chose not to consider it. There are many examples like this. When, when we passed the Law on Local Self-Government, where everyone inside is lined up, all the names of cities and municipalities, and I have fought with one big amendment that we have bilingual names in the law, not just in the statutes, because statutes have little power, and the law has great power. After that, it took me a few years to apply it on the highways because they didn't want to. There was always some reason, constitutional law. and we are talking about this best legislation that we have in the world, the constitutional law of part of '91, and part of '92 that was passed in '92 as a condition for us to become members, to be admitted is getting worse and worse. The best one was the one, '95, was abolished, I don't know how many provisions concerning Serbs. For example, the number of representatives. Again, the Serbs fell from 13 to 3.99. dropped from 3 to 1... we are talking about constitutional law to eventually amend the Constitution and the Constitution to write that the constitutional law that she said before Col. Mulic was not constitutional law, so that certain interpretations can be abolished, provisions whatever you want from the Constitutional Court, that it is not constitutional law to call constitutional law to cover everyone's eyes, but it is not constitutional law. It's not constitutional law when it's supposed to be constitutional law. In the end, Croatia is neither better nor worse than other countries, so let's be clear. I know how other countries behave, how they behave... pro domo me as if I said or pro domo voster if you say so. Italy also has in many parts a strange policy towards national minorities, in many not in many yes. Croatia is the same. Some are worse than us, some are better than us. But if we go from what history we've had, then the only conclusion being that we're all minorities here, the whole country is a minority. The whole country is a minority compared to what's going on. And since the whole country is a minority and since we also feel in some ways as citizens as a minority, and not only as members of national minorities, I would ask you that when we talk about the rights of national minorities to be as much together as possible, not separate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88661	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First of all, the esteemed Tink Millas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Radin, your debates are always as I would like to say politely and try to offend no one... nor insult, but a few things I must mention. You wondered why the headquarters was called headquarters, why the language had come into question, or why someone had a problem with their language. So I'd told you I didn't hear you ask yourself why the law was applied the way it was applied in Vukovar. The day children go to school under cover at night, I don't even know what, if that's what it's all about, then why did it go to the Law on the Rights of National Minorities? Furthermore, no, you're not, I'm asking you, why didn't you ask yourself why the government was doing it that way? Well, isn't there something called a real conversation, and that's not about law enforcement here believe you or me except through the story through conversation, is about people living down here. Why didn't it go down and gather everyone who needs to be gathered from the city authorities, from minorities, defenders, so all those who have something to say, why didn't they try to find a solution? I didn't notice that something like that tried to do that was of good faith. Later, yes, but it's all gone so I don't tell the devil. Why does politics always prevail in things that are so sensitive? So from spring of '91 to January of '98, these people lived through the most difficult period of their lives. I personally, who I was born there, can't even get into the psyche of some people in the mind of people who lost 2, 3, 4 family members, I have no idea how they feel. So no one hates Cyrillic or Serbian. In Vukovar, Serbian and Ukrainian, and Russian, everything is spoken from... but there is something else and it should be explained and persistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88663	The replica matches the esteemed Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88664	Probably law enforcement could have been done differently but the law had to be applied, and probably it could have been done in another way. I don't know why it was done at night if it was done at night. I'd do it the other way. The fact that we agree, however, that in the conversation in many of the talks I have had with the Vukovars, I have come to the conclusion that there is one common denominator. Everyone talks about us, but nobody thinks about us. And not only that, what you said earlier matches the truth, they don't mind things. I think that both HDZ and SDP and we will, of course, be gladly involved and certainly have to be together to solve this problem because already in Vukovar, they start to think that they are being manipulated from all sides, that's what I've gotten the impression of. You can deny me, you're much closer there, but I believe in people in general and I believe that people want to live together both Serbs and Croats there, that's what I think. And I don't think we have any right to continue this crisis there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88665	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88666	Thank you very much. A fellow Furin your presentation was interesting, and even in some elements and thoughts far-reaching, precisely regarding these cards you spoke about and the opportunities that today provides technique and information, etc. But what you said about history, so tragic history, we have all the peoples in these places and that we have to be at peace in it so that we can build a future together and live together as you said in Vukovar and will always be, so both minorities and most of them, etc. It's inevitable, even if anyone comes up with a genocide, but I can't possibly tell all the people to execute all the people. Therefore, when you talk about your struggle for the Constitutional Law since '91, so the changes that you have been in the Parliament for a long time are 20 and more years on which to congratulate and where you have been working on these rights of national minorities. Then you said that very often the word must be changed by the word can, and then it's... Yeah, sure. [[You can't hear it.]] Well, if he can, but he doesn't have to, he can and he doesn't have to. However, in the Constitution of our Republic of Croatia the constitutional provision is the right to work, very regrettable I would say provision, the right to work, and we see what is happening. So it's not just that national minorities can and the sea, but as you say all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88667	Replication response, Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88668	You see, there are some advantages to being left with a little bit, and then we start getting along a little bit more, so those who say things have to be settled in the square, they're always wrong. It's best to make arrangements in smaller groups of people. I'll only take one thing to answer and I won't deepen, I thought I'd deepen a little, but I'm not there, so I won't have what is around kindergartens far more Croatian than Italian kindergartens, and in Italian kindergartens go Croats, Italians because we don't do blood work. Is that right? Children in particular. We're not doing anything to anyone. About work. The constitution is an inventory of value, meaning what we are, and values are defined as what is not yet and yet yet to be achieved. Of course it is. What we could all do together now that there are so few of us here we might agree, is that it is a shame that the Croatian Constitution first mentions the word work on 50 and some article. It's the first time he's mentioned work, work on 50 and some article, and I guess work is something else. I guess work is some value that should be in the first article, because without work, we'll have nothing. And about the other things we'll have a lot more, a lot of time to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88669	The last replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Radin. I will remain only at this beginning of yours, because in the replicas of my colleague, Milas, in particular, and my colleague Grubisic really said what I was going to say about your complete presentation. I'll say something really, you said a few of us and yes, but from this majority there's always this one minority until the end of the assembly sessions because it doesn't use the occasion and it's decent, it's also polite to what's being debated today. So, about one important report, it's decent to the citizens who chose us, it's decent to all of us. She's not as rude as some people who just use it, so when TV is there, then when it comes out, there's someone else there, she sits down a little bit more and then she goes home. Because I guess they have some important state affairs or other important jobs, and we don't have that. No, we stayed here decent and I'm glad we did, and I'm glad that we're mostly the ones who are here by the end of the session, so it's Friday or any other day. And I really believe that Croatia and Croatian people are decent and that is why I think that Croatia has accepted in reality the most standards relating to the protection of the rights of national minorities. And I think we're really going to be able to talk about something much more important in the future, and this is an important thing, but just maybe that article that you said was 50 places to work, so we'll talk about it when everyone has a job, when everyone's happy, so we can do our job peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88671	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club, the respected Boris Blazekovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, if there wasn't anyone here, I'd be saying, "I'm completely alone with the people who chose me, and I'd be having a relationship with this job." This is my theme, and I want to talk about it, even if no one in this assembly hears me. Maybe somewhere on a branch a bird will hear it and it'll be worth it. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities has set the framework and standards for the rights of national minorities in Croatia. By the very content and norms contained in this law, we can be proud that Croatia has a constitutional power law that provides for and prescribes the most standards for the protection of the rights of national minorities in Europe and beyond. I don't know if my colleague Radin will agree to that. The colleagues and colleagues who were then sitting in this House and who passed this law may be proud to have implemented such a law, and the interested public was certainly satisfied with such a legal framework. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 for the needs of national minorities on its 100 pages illustrates the situation within the legal framework and the monitoring for last year. We have singled out only some chapters and areas at the HNS club to point out the importance of caring for national minorities and the lack of quality of protection and implementation of the Constitutional Law. But we'd start with some premise. Human rights are universal, personal freedoms are random and unlimited. Neither human rights are permanently protected nor personal civil liberties are established at the highest level forever and irrevocably protected in any country. Depending on the current security and policy situation, human rights and freedoms can be less or more derogated or threatened. Therefore, it is necessary to take constant care of the level of or threat to these rights and, in any minor disturbance or weakness of those rights, to speak out loud and publicly and to be warned. And it's better for some time to scream in advance than knowingly shut up the threat of human rights and freedom. The same applies to the rights of national minorities which fall under specific human rights. The historic success of Croatia, following historical traumas and traumas from the recent history or Homeland War, managed to implement laws that protect national minorities according to the highest standards, certain provisions as we have said more than the standards of other EU members and the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe. However, as we believe on a daily basis that often the legal provision is one thing and the application of the law is quite another, and we have introduced for this problem the control of the application, i.e. the implementation of the Minority Protection Act, and this is before us the 10th such report. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has coordinated the creation of a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities, and all competent ministries and other competent authorities in charge of the implementation of certain provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities have participated in it. As mentioned in the introduction, there are several chapters and topics which we in HNS have identified as intriguing and significant. The second chapter discusses the use of the language and letters of the national minorities, and this is the topic most intrigued by the use and breaking of Cyrillic inscriptions in Vukovar. We were in the HNS and we were still convinced that the implementation of the installation of the two-written panels was not and should not be a political but administrative issue i.e. Not anymore. The topic could have been a political issue by the time the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was passed and could be a political issue on the debate but not in law enforcement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities speaks precisely when the equal use of the language and letter used by national minorities is applied. Following the publication of the official results of the 2011 census in mid-December 2012, the Ministry of Administration carried out an appropriate analysis of the data contained in the established list and drawn up a list of units of local self-government in which members of a specific national minority constitute at least one third of the population and which, in their statutes, comply with the provisions of Article 12(1). The Constitutional Law undertakes to regulate the exercise of the right to the equal official use of minority language and letters in its field. Members of the Serb national minority are guaranteed the right to use their language and letters equally in the cities of Vrbovska and Vukovar and in the municipalities of Biskupija, Borovo, Cviljane, Donji Kukuruzari, Dvor, Erdut, Ervenik, Gračac, Gvozd, Jagodnjak, Kistanje, Krnjak, Markušica, Negoslavci, Šodolovci, Trpina, Udbina, Vrović, Vrhovina and Donji Lapac. Members of the Czech national minority are guaranteed the right in the municipality of Končanica. Members of the Hungarian national minority in the municipality of the Prince's vineyards. Members of the Slovak national minority in the municipality of Punovci and members of the Italian minority in Grožnjan municipality. There's no dilemma for us at the HNS. The law must be respected, everything else is politics and manipulation. Clearly, there are places and forums where there may be a need to discuss the possible sensitivity of law enforcement, especially in places that are as terribly destroyed as it was Vukovar but also other places in the Homeland War. In these situations, it should be particularly sensitive and it should be specifically discussed with all victims in one communication to try to explain the application. But we don't think there's any way the law won't apply or enforce itself. Neither this law nor any other. The second topic that seems important to us in the HNS is the implementation of the Action Plan for the inclusion of members of the Roma national minority. It is evident that currently in Croatia, conditionally said, is the most endangered Roma minority. We believe that an even greater effort is needed for the overall society, especially the local communities, to support Roma integration in society and the community as high as possible. The only way, according to us, is education and communication. It is also an important segment to raise the level of health protection of the wide spectrum and to curb the delinquent behaviour of the Roma. In particular, it is necessary to make as much effort as possible in trying to educate adult Roma. It is a good trend and an attempt to establish Roma cultural centres where they are concentrated. Roma are certainly a minority who, by their culture and specificities, if properly understood and applied can contribute to the cultural wealth of Croatia. Progress has been visible in this area since Mr. Veljko Kajtazi was a representative of the Roma minority in the Croatian Parliament. The third topic that the HNS would like to highlight is the employment of members of national minorities in state administration bodies and the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular, as indicated in the report, in the MUP, the judiciary and the administrative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government units. Regardless of the decision to ban the new employment of civil servants and deputies in state administration bodies, efforts should be significantly increased so that minority members can exercise their rights in their fullness. The fourth topic we would particularly like to highlight from the CNS is Chapter 12. Ethical Crimes and Procedures related to Discrimination and Chapter 14. Threatening the exercise of the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities. Unfortunately, there are still individual excesses that some individuals are given the right to insult, attack other individuals based on nationality. According to this report in areas of special state concern, in each of 51 cases interethnic impatience worked on relations between Serbs and Croats. About... Circumstances, especially in the context of the Homeland War, may be sufficient and quite logical, but points out that much stronger engagement of the entire society and especially of the local communities in education and communication related to interethnic and general tolerance is needed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the area of developing tolerance towards diversity and combating discrimination, the adoption of a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights for the period 2013-2016 as a strategic document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which sets out measures to improve the protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. One of the priority areas of the national programme is the area of national minority rights. And finally, we in Croatia believe in the richness, diversity of individuals and groups in the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats and consider it a difference between people and the specificity of every individual with the wealth of society. Croatia is a small country population but in relatively large areas and within the national Croat Corps there are numerous specificities, cultural differences from language through customs, folk costumes to music and musical instruments. We are fortunate that the territory of the Croatian state is inhabited by many other minority communities, which by their customs, language, letter, costumes, historical, cultural heritage further enrich Croatian society and Croatian culture. It is a wealth that we must not give up, minorize, underestimate, or try to solve in any way at all. All minorities and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are or are considered national minorities are our Croatian wealth. Unfortunately, because of the turbulent, recent history of escalation of nationalism ahead, during and after the Homeland War the wounds are still not healed and we need laws, and we need bodies that keep watch over the implementation of laws that protect the specific rights of national minorities. We in HNS are waiting for the day in Croatia when the attitude towards minorities will be such that we will all be political Croats, and minorities will only stand out for their overrich and beautiful cultural and ordinary specificities. As of that day, the control bodies that have written are special to us, such as this report, which will be accepted by the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88673	Thank you. The Republic was reported by the esteemed Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88674	I'll get back to you about this part, I've called around this part of Mr. Blazekovic when he talks about Croats outside the country, about the Croatian minority. Croatia has an obligation to help Croats outside the country and perhaps many do not know but my board as well as to cover the topic, and also later, and I personally advocated that national minorities, let's talk about Croats outside the country, to give adequate funds. They're not being given adequate funds, and that's not from now on. They were not given adequate funds even when the right center was in power and now it just keeps going. Also, the strength of Croats outside the country should be strengthened by being represented in the Croatian Parliament in a way that is adequate to their number which is not, because it was found for according to the past Constitution to reduce them to three, no one knows why, at least I don't know why, and if they were presented in an adequate manner, means flexible, adequate to their number then they would probably hear more of their voice, and perhaps they would hear their voice if they were elected in the way we were chosen. So if they were chosen exclusively from their communities and preferably without party involvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88675	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88676	Also, a post-election or online voting would greatly help their number, influence and number of people who would vote for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88677	The replica corresponds to the respected Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have not mentioned the Croatian national minority outside Croatia in a single word. But I do support, support and thank you because it's one topic that could really be a special topic from the Parliament session and also from our committee, regardless of what we're not really in charge of. But I'm saying I support it, in any case, I think it's one topic that we should all really talk about together seriously and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88679	Last reported for the debate, Honored Representative Nedzad Hodzic on behalf of a group of independent MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88680	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. So here's the joke, sugar at the end, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88681	I'm sugar at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88682	And I'm sorry, I accept a correction to the wrong assumption. I'm speaking for the first time today on behalf of another club whose member I'm from a few weeks ago and therefore this debate today will be very brief and start with the information that develops various theories. So I'm with colleagues Vuksic and Linic in a new club, my reasons for this club are the following, it's about people who are from the left political spectrum, I come from the Bosniak Democratic Party, which is the programme party of the left centre. counterpart Vuksic is one of the most active representatives in this assembly on the other hand, counterpart Linic is a longtime politician, former minister, a man who has something to say. And since they are not members of any party, I have two accessions to the Bosniak Democratic Party of Croatia on the alert. I'm kidding, of course, a little bit with that, but of course I thought these people should have normal working conditions because if you don't have a club, you don't have an office, you don't have a secretary, you can't be a payphone, I think they deserve it. And as for supporting the government that club is quite I would say it has all its autonomy, because my attitude towards the current government it primarily because of its belonging to the left political centre and clear policy towards BiH has my support absolutely, which does not mean that it does all the good things. But here's a little bit about the report. I don't think there's much to say, I'll just look back on a few things from that report. It is, of course, a data set, a set of information that we will support and adopt, but I would refer to two things. 2013 was a step in local elections and members of the national minorities were for the first time in this country and it should be pointed out that they were positively discriminated against because they had for the first time been able to vote for the head of the municipality and his deputy and that, as members of the national minority, they chose their deputy chief of staff, of course in the middle where the number of minorities made it possible by law. And that's really one step towards positive discrimination. We hope that we will achieve the other very quickly when the parliamentary elections or European elections are that we can consume such a right in these elections as well. The second thing I would say is mediocre, which is the employment of members of national minorities in the state and public administration. It has remained on the percentage that it was before, we are also aware of the Law of Prohibition, we are aware of the reality, so you can't do the consummation of that law overnight but the fact is that we are somewhere where we were before and there is no practically positive shift. What we consider to be a bad thing at one principle level is an article 8 and a very conflicting interpretation of Article 8 of the Constitutional Law, which would really require an authentic interpretation of this House. Is it so different to interpret an article of the law as we interpret it in the Club of National Minorities, and I believe most colleagues from some political left and colleagues from HDZ, so it's really like we're not talking about the same thing. And I think we'll ask on behalf of the club to discuss it so it won't be a stumbling block. Because if this is how we talk to our HDZ colleagues, then we could practically ask the question of whether or not anyone agrees with it. So if we have the law to apply it, if this law is doing a problem on the ground that I can accept and respect let's change it, let's make it, let's make a deal, and we're agreeing here, let's not make problems with a law that we can change and then some new amended law we'll apply. Unfortunately, today's discussion goes back a little bit into those political waters, so I'll just remind you of a few things, since our minister is a mathematician by profession. So today we've heard how much minority funds they get, just part of the story because if we don't consume 1800 jobs just in the state administration, then on some gross salary of 7,000 kuna says we don't consume $12.5 million per month. So when you multiply it by 12 months, then you have a calculation that according to this law, members of national minorities don't consume 150 million kunas. And then it's not appropriate to say that we gave the minorities this much or that much. On the other hand, these same minorities who make up 7.5% of the population of this country who do not consume jobs but only half-lives from something else. Either they're entrepreneurs or they're employees of a real economy. What am I saying? Let's fill the budget. So no one gives us any money because this way when you say it like that, then it turns out that some domicile or Croats as the majority people fill the budget and give us something. No, we fill the budget like all the other citizens of this country in proportion to our work and our numbers, and by this law you see practically we should have some benefits. There is no benefit either in this material status because on the one hand we do not get 150 million, and then it is said that but you have received 139 it is through reconstruction and through all the funds that are obtained annually for all the programmes of the national minorities because in this and the Serbs because of the return and housing and this, of course, through the Alliance for National Minorities. What I would ask you to give us is that we have a lot of Cyrillic minorities in front of us is a bad economic situation, we have a serious job in front of the state, so let's put it somewhere on the side that we're talking about today, and here we have a proposal on how to sell these Mandarins that have nowhere to be sold from the Neretva Valley, so we're dealing with serious things and we're giving suggestions for serious things, and we're not emptying and we're not eating something that just divides us and becomes a stumbling block in this society. We are responsible for what is happening in Croatia and we are not responsible for what is happening in Serbia, nor should we say here that they are doing it, and that is why we are doing similar things here. No, this country must rise, we are a member of the EU, we have come out of that country to be a better, more orderly society, and not to have what remains behind us as any measure. We'll support the club's colleagues, I suppose, that we'll support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88683	Now we'll hear two replicas. First Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hodzic, I do not know what and what other interpretation should be done about Article 8 of this Constitutional Law which says that the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be regulated and applied for the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and the Croatian people, the development of understanding, solidarity, tolerance, dialogue between them. Now, if this is a questionable matter to you, I do not know why the Constitutional Court’s questionable decision, which says so and actually requires the Government of the Republic of Croatia, would be obliged, within one year of the publication of the decision in the National Journal, to refer it to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Official Use and Letters and National Minorities, as well as to appeal to Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. I don't see what it would be, in which way it would be controversial. The account you're talking about, let's say, by which national minorities should have received more in view of their participation, they live by the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't settle these obligations like all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, what we see in this report, the 138 million kuna is only related to this report. We do not have reports from the Government of the Republic of Croatia by other ministries, funds and agencies that are given for the needs and rights and protection of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I am certainly not one of those, and I will never be to be abolished, dodging the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and that the degree that we have reached here in the Republic of Croatia, which with full law and which other countries are also talking about in our environment, is that of the EU to do this. But we must also be aware of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, at this point, there has been a ban on employment since 2009 and that this is also one reason for the non-representation of national minorities in the representative and representative bodies of state and public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88685	The replica matches Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88686	Okay, I'll start at the end. So there was a time when there was no ban, so those jobs were not consumed. And it's clear to us that twenty and so many years ago we created a state, that it couldn't, so even now you can't get rid of that thing overnight when there's a ban and there's no ban. We're aware of that. But neither should we when we have in the same law the possibility that we're relatively employed, then we don't need to manipulate these numbers and say we gave it to the minors. That's all that went for cultural autonomy, it's again through our associations left in this society through VAT, someone there and the employee works so the contributions are paid. So it's not the money that went anywhere. And I'll repeat again, minorities if they don't consume jobs in the state and public administration means they're more committed in the real sector. Of course they have to pay for their obligations. I come from the real sector not to turn out not to want to talk about the figures that are enormous for my 25 years of entrepreneurship and the number of employees etc. So, I don't think there's any need to talk like that at all, and on the other hand, you're going to have to admit that Cyrillic, and this article 8 is more of a political issue among the Croats, and let's solve it, let's solve it all together. Because there are serious problems ahead of us, there are serious problems ahead of this country, and we are constantly wasting our time on things that I should say by myself. Article 8 by us should define him where he was brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88687	Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, in your presentation, you spoke a little bit about and a little against, you defended a little while, and you asked for a little. I'm only going to look back on one fact. Today we're talking about this, this report because we think it's an important report. And believe me, here's what I'm going to talk about from my personal life, and I believe a colleague who's not only there, but those who have important other jobs, and they're not here. I also like to hear a Serb say he's a Serb, Muslim Muslim, Italian Italian. But I like to say I'm Croatian. And when I say I'm Croat and Catholic, I don't want anyone to be offended. And somehow through some discussions, a man gets the feeling that he shouldn't say that I'm Croat and Catholic anymore and that I shouldn't wear a cross because I would insult someone nationalally. I wouldn't! And fellow Hodzic, as for employment at a time when 300 thousand people are unemployed, believe in both the state and local administration when they are employed, so forgive me, I must say, a particular circle of people is employed. Among them are Serbs and Muslims. And then they don't call their national, so they're minorities. No, it's okay then. And so when he can't get a job, then he should be called a minority. It would be wonderful if everyone had work to do, but with a guy like this, don't do it, I don't want him to insist too much on it. Believe in a people who don't have a job, when we start to exist if three of us colleagues Hodzic, me and Milos sign up, and we've got technical equipment, it doesn't matter, but we'll take you in. It's not understood by people who don't work yet, you understand. It's the same rights, the same rules that all get hired. It's fair to me, for me it's the most honest thing, by the expertise that everyone gets employed, not by nationality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88689	Replication response, Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88690	We agree on everything. I'm just talking about members of national minorities who are 7 and a half percent consumed by jobs of 3 and a half percent, and we're aware that it can't be solved overnight. But that's why I'm calling for us and here to be more concerned about how to open up all those jobs together that everybody needs, not that we're still dealing with Cyrillics, Latins, moanings, like this. So, I'm in the first term in this House believe sometimes I feel like we're wasting our time, because we're dealing with minor things instead of doing everybody, we're making a contribution even through our discussions that maybe we can help the executive government whoever it is, I hope this current one gets the next election and retains continuity, but we need to help all citizens. Trust me on the moment we all have a job, when there's no social problems, it'll be less important to everyone. As far as we're concerned, maybe somewhere we don't understand each other, so by the law of this country, this is a secular society. Croatia is the state of the Croatian people and others. Is that something special? You understand? Most people are members of Catholic religion, so is that what you need? But if you ask me if the cross is the place at school, my position is that it's not because it's not under the Constitution of this country. ... That's it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88691	Minister Arsen Bauk has now come to the conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88692	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think this is my first assembly debate that lasted more than four hours if I hadn't answered in the meantime. But it doesn't have to be interpreted as a lack of enthusiasm but rather a desire not to further complicate a debate that can go in a direction that has not gone happily, at least today. So, as regards the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities there at the end of 2012 in the Croatian Parliament was the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the adoption of this law when the President of the National Minority Council said his first sentence that we were all at some point a minority. And then I turned to then Deputy Prime Minister Neven Mimica, and most seriously began to tell him about the islanders' problems. In the previous assembly I was in a parliamentary minority and I always find myself somewhere in a minority where I can recognize myself and usually encounter the misunderstanding of these others who are at that point in the majority. ... Yes, I am now in the House of Ministers, but I was a representative, so I have an understanding. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it is probably also the reason why it is good that every year at least once a year how the Constitutional Law speaks opens a debate in the Assembly on this Constitutional Law to draw attention to certain problems, to praise something if there is anything to praise. And this year, apart from the usual topics this report has been about the use of, slightly more than the previous years, the use of language and letters of national minorities. I'll look back on a few segments from the debate. First of all, the rights of Croats in other countries were mentioned in the law, so in particular there was an apostrophe of Croats in Serbia. So, as far as the Croatian People's Council is concerned, and I don't know, I did say exactly, but I think I did, it was one of those institutions that supported the introduction of bilingualism into the city of Vukovar and publicly declared itself therefore to support that kind of activity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because it knew that any bad implications in Vukovar could also refer to their status within the Republic of Serbia. On Sunday 26 October, elections for the Council of National Minorities in Serbia and also for Croats will therefore choose their National Council in another way than is elected in Croatia, through electoral votes because they have failed to collect enough signatures to elect their representatives directly. Which again is something where we have a higher level of protection of minority rights because we are elected directly by the council or representatives. As for the second topic on the position of Croats in Serbia that occupys our public, it concerns a group of people we consider in Croatia as Croats, and they do not deny themselves to be Croats and are called Bunjevci. I must say, in that sense, I feel no great responsibility for their position. If someone rejects their Croatian name, he doesn't deserve any better than to take care of their rights, Tomislav Nikolic. When they say they are Croats, they will have all the concerns of the Croatian state as well as all the other Croats around the world in accordance with the Constitution. It is my position that I had the need to say here in the Croatian Parliament. During a visit to the Republic of Serbia, which should be realised by the end of the year, I will also meet with representatives of the duchy Croatians to see how the Republic of Serbia can help in their lives and how we can influence because minority rights will also likely be a question of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. As regards Article 8 The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities will agree with MP Babic that it does not need to be interpreted specifically and I agree that we can appeal to the Constitutional Court's decisions in this regard. It is likely that this will be the only thing we will agree on at this time because on 12 August 2014, apart from the decision on the referendum, the Constitutional Court also made a decision confirming the decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to put out of force an article amending the Statute of the city of Vukovar, which has just referred to Article 8 in some way suspended the use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter in the city of Vukovar. So, it was a statute decision from 2013. And in one of his decisions, therefore, in the light of the decision, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that it supports the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was in that decision and that there is no need to explain it because it is considered obvious. And this is the basis which we, of course, interpret that it was perfectly legal and constitutional to apply the Law on the Language and Letter of National Minorities in the City of Vukovar, and we also interpret that it is by decision of the Constitutional Court which is ordered the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, until the amendments to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters do not apply this law by force. We saw this as a release from the obligation to apply the law in the city of Vukovar, not as a ban. So, the government had its constitutional obligation to apply the law and the Constitutional Court temporarily freed the Government of the obligation to apply it by force, but only when it's said to apply, it's a sign that it applies, I don't know how else to explain it. We'll probably still be discussing this, but I don't think there's any further to it, I haven't read what the government wrote now, either, so let me say here's what the Constitutional Court has confirmed. So, Mr. Hodzic, I am on the side of the Constitutional Court and this decision on the Statute of the City of Vukovar, and thus the constitutional article 8 is interpreted. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. And I would like to visit that at a time when this law was passed in 2002, Article 8 of the Constitutional Law proposal was formulated differently because it was said to take care of all those things between members of national minorities and other citizens. Thus was the formulation proposed in the proposal, and then the amendment of Mrs Kosor's HDZ MPs then made this up to other citizens compared to minority members, so the amendment was to replace the word with the term Croatian people because the other citizens were when the members of the national minorities were taken away is the Croatian people. And it was quite detailed, quite clearly explained that we had cases that in the municipalities where minorities make up the majority, let's say we avoided entering the Croatian anthem, that in some other ways we didn't care about feelings, the rights of members of the Croatian people in these municipalities that it was good for this law to be put in place and the expression of the Croatian people. So, that was, I'm trying to convince you because, given the beginning of these disputes, I've also looked at the debate about this law because I like to go into some kind of discussion that I can at least argue with something I'm saying. So I became convinced afterwards that the interpretation we had all along, so it was true and I was talking to Mrs. Kosor and I saw that part correctly. If I were to return to the period of cynicism that I knew how to use in this House, I would say that Article 8 symbolically reminds me of the 8 years of the HDZ coalition and the SDSS at the state level. It was indeed a time of great tolerance and co-existence and time when, when these problems were not put into the first place. Now that the situation has changed, they're back in the first place, but I hope that the kind of tension in the future will fall. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not take anything that could be seen as forced measures. And these amendments to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters in the Assembly must be accepted by a two-thirds majority, so without cooperating with the opposition, there are no amendments. Therefore, we are very aware that it does not go over the knee or overnight. After the events concerning the use of language and letter, I am with members of national minorities who have been elected as deputy mayors and mayors in a number of municipalities and cities, but also with the heads of these municipalities and deputy chiefs of the Croatian people who were also elected in those municipalities where it is legally binding, held two meetings which were, therefore, neither open to the public nor after any statement, so that people from the field can be seen, so in which way the law can be applied not to cause further tensions which apparently for some reasons still cause them. In fact, we, except in Vukovar, have not implemented that law in those units of local self-government where members of the Serb minority have over 80%. So there are no bilingual signboards at the entrance to the city on traffic signs, there is no except perhaps on the board of the municipality or bilingual street names except somewhere. Therefore, it is obvious that, apart from Istria, that in other parts of Croatia, this law is more or less a letter on paper, I would not say dead, but at a very high degree of anesthesia. And how can we, if we can't go where there's been war casualties, how can we where it's been significantly less, how can we apply it, and then with time and tensions will decrease. So that's one challenge waiting for us in the future and we're going to put an emphasis there, and we're going to try to agree with the opposition, because I'm saying we can't change the law on the use of language and letters without HDZ votes right now. So we're going to have to, we're going to have to sit down at some point and see what we change, how we change. And I believe that if this change is seen, that obvious obstruction that simply because of the difficulties of the changes, the deadline for inappropriation wants to extend, we will seek the intervention of the Constitutional Court through the report or through some other way. It's something that's waiting for us until summer next year because we have an obligation in a year to propose amendments to the law. They can only be for sanctioning councils that do not do so, so the only sanctions against the council can be disband and new elections, there are no other sanctions because under the Law on Local Self-Government, you cannot punish council members for their opinions, because of the vote, because of something they say at the Council session, nor has collective responsibility for a representative body. If the representative body does not comply with the law, the State shall give the instruments to either abolish if it comes to illegal decisions, or to disband if it often makes illegal decisions. There are no other options to sanction. I have to admit, although I didn't expect any, so I think the debate was correct that there was a desire for this law to be implemented in those, and I'm going to call it indisputable segments because obviously we have some controversial segments. In terms of employment, the fact is that not even the share of minority members can be observed linearly in the bodies of the state administration because the majority of minorities live in some other parts, for example in the city of Zagreb is not such a percentage of minority members, and most of the state bodies are in the city of Zagreb. And then normally no one will travel from Baranja because of the Hungarian nationality in Zagreb working at the ministry. These are some restrictions that are objective. On the other hand, age and per professional preparation is also not equal to the representation of each of the minorities within the total population, and then there is a certain disproportion in possibilities and what is the desired goal. As far as representation is concerned, we discussed this in the adoption of the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Local Self-Government. So my view is that if someone is a minority representative, then he must be or a representative of the people, that he must be elected by those representatives, if he is a representative of the citizens to then be elected on the general list. I therefore believe that regardless of someone who is a member of the national minority to be elected mayor, he is a representative of all citizens, not of that minority, and that regardless of whether there is a minority or a Croatian people where the different structure of the population should be elected by their own representative, and I think that we have learned the difference between representatives and members of the Croatian presidency in the last two terms of office. In the executive body there are representatives because the majority system, and in the city council there are members, is therefore a proportional system and those by number are removed from the party lists where each vote is worth the same, and there are no votes lost to try to explain it to the electoral system. And yet in 4 units of local self-government, we didn't have representatives of the Roma minority in the council, so we reiterated the election, so in three of them none of the parties ran for anyone. So the opportunity to really get another councilman in the municipal council has not taken advantage of what we can now give as a criticism to the parties that they were obviously not interested in the reintegration or integration of that minority, and this is about the Roma minority in three municipalities. So here's the only three cases where there's not enough representation of members of national minorities. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for all your remarks. As for some of the other issues raised here, as regards the section of other ministries and the question of what you asked Mr. Babić in the first line about the amount for cultural programmes or what your colleague Glavak asked Roma relations in Međimurje, I believe that there will be opportunities in direct contact with those who are a little more directly in charge of certain issues or at committee meetings to discuss this. And I would like the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to have some thematic session on the use of language and letter so that in one narrow but more professional atmosphere, the issue is resolved because, let's say, it also doesn't make me proud as a member of the Government that we still don't have any traffic signs on entering the populated place bilingually, and especially since we don't have a bi-written one. Yes, that's why I said two-letter because in Istria we have both that and in those municipalities where there is no such thing as Grožnjan Italian Municipality alone there are over 33% of how much the price is for the use of language and letter. So as far as the Statute of the Istrian County is concerned, I would remind you that in 1997, state bodies intervened to remove a bilingual inscription from the Istrian County building, and now state bodies are trying to place it on some other institutions. So even in those 16 years, we see in which part we have made progress in the rights of national minorities, and I think that in that part of the region we are far more democratic and best country and I am proud to point out that. And I believe that examples of other countries will not be our way and the thought of leadership as we should regulate the rights of national minorities because we do not want our role models to be those who are worse than us, but that we will be careful what they do and especially higher and higher reciprocity is the task of every Croatian government and every Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I thank you, Your Honor. I see there's a replica, so I'll still have a chance to add to what you've said to Mr. Hodzic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88693	First you'll have a chance to respond to the replicas. Dear Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88694	Dear Minister Bauk, you have now said at the end that the debate was correct. It was certainly correct, however, given the situation in the state, even excessive debates are in the Croatian Parliament. A little passion would not, not sow hate, but passion would not be lacking. There are often "academic discussions" here on a non-academic level, and that's not good. At the very beginning, you were saying someone you quoted, I don't remember exactly, that we're all a minority at some point, that's for sure. However, opportunities in the world, not only in Croatia teach us that not always minorities are subordinated, I say now on a sentence it refers to that at some point we are all minority. There's one minority, and that's a minority of capitalists who rule the world when we talk about minorities. Minorities sometimes rule, but sometimes we know that minorities who are suppressed are right that most are wrong. We saw the same thing just before, so logic and honesty gave way to the interests of, say, voting just before. My colleagues used to talk about who we are by identity. My colleague said that she was Catholic and Croat and that she shouldn't be ashamed of it, absolutely certainly not. I'm a citizen of Croatia and an atheist and I'm not ashamed of it. I have far more identities than one and quite certain that that national is not my primary identity, that I have so many identities that I should classify by which. What a man has is that once a colleague of Radin and I discussed it, about identities and how they understand it is a person of far-reaching worldview.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88695	I thank my colleague Vuksic. We're moving on to another replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88696	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Just a few things on your exposure. First, how much it cost national minorities to today's point. There are only two left in the Croatian Parliament, one of them is the chairman of the parent board. But when you spoke about electronic voices in the Republic of Serbia, you must also know that Croats must collect 10,000 signatures and verify them with the public notary and verify what is the difference. I am pleased that you will be very careful in the negotiations of the Republic of Serbia for the candidate country in the EU, but I see that you will no longer be in power, so you don't have to worry about that either. As far as the Constitutional Court's decision is concerned, she's clear. It's just not clear to me that you know her, and you agree with her why after this decision you disobey this court's decision you continue to force the installation of bilingual panels. I don't think that's necessary, and in this very spirit of tolerance, we should definitely avoid it right now. And what you finally told me, I actually agree with you really in a lot of things, but outside of the Croatian Parliament. What I don't agree with you and I won't forgive you is the Law on residence, so please, given that I came from Germany two days ago, for example only in Baden Württemberg is 7,000 people, a problem actually solved for 7,000 people, the other 40,000 people are waiting. I don't know how you're gonna do it, but think about pro-longing it to the residence law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88697	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88698	So, Your Honor, let's go from the last one. So, as far as the residence law is concerned, as you've expressed yourself, you won't forgive me for believing it was figurative, because it's the law of the Ministry of Administration's department, so in that sense I don't feel guilty. But we did, last year, at the end of 12 months, the government extended the deadline for the application of one article of the House Act. Since the Law on residence and residence has a direct impact on the voter lists, and in order for the deadline to coincide with the electoral actions for the election of the President of the Republic, I think it is logical that the application of that article is relonged in a few months so as not to affect the regularity of the election. And personally, therefore, I do not see disputedly in that if someone lives in Germany, so in Baden Württemberg that they have a place there when they decide to return and live in Croatia they will report their residence, they will have a residence in Croatia. But that certain rights which, under current laws, are to be freed from residences so that they do not literally have any harm in having no residence in Croatia because they do not live there. It is, in any case, I agree that this should be done in a different way in certain segments. So we're talking about people living in Germany. If they live in Germany, then they should have a residence there, when they return to Croatia, Croatian citizenship. So they'll have a passport, they wouldn't have a ID. And when they return to live in Croatia they will go to the police, they will apply and live in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88699	Thank you very much. There's no room for that anymore. The last replica of Furia Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88700	Thank you very much. Just two short things. First that absolutely as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities I accept the proposal to make an... bilingualism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is what I would say with positive intentions to really finally accept something, with good intentions to accept something together between this position and the opposition. And secondly, I guess there will be opportunities to discuss where Croatia really is in that order, the hierarchy of European countries under the rights given to national minorities and normatively and on a concrete basis. Because we use too often that we're scary, that we're good, that we're the best, and sometimes we don't, of course, when you're talking, Mr. Minister. But in some exhibitions, I get the impression that it's someone else's, that someone thinks we have too much rights. I'm just stressing the fact that we have one of the highest percentages of the predicted members of the national minorities to achieve bilingualism. No country, except I think these Baltic countries have 33% or more, all of them have between 20% and 25% of the population. It's just that fact that we're not really the first in everything. But we'll talk about it on the round table.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88701	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88702	Thank you. So, as far as the Constitutional Court's decision was concerned, which I remained in debt in the past replica, I supported in public acts the intention that went out of that decision and I think I correctly interpreted it. Because how else to define the fact that the Constitutional Court in its decisions is two things that we said confirmed. One thing is that the question as far as Article 12 is concerned is: The constitutional law is unconstitutional, that no referendum can be called on. And secondly, that the decision, which in the first degree was me, and in the second degree, the Government abolished one article of the Statute of the City of Vukovar in accordance with the Constitution. So in two of those normative things he said we were right. But of course you can take care of some other things, and that's what's going on. As far as bilingualism and minority rights issues are concerned, so I thought in one segment I should say that one right should be reduced, which is the right to deputy mayors and I think that 5% is too low a censorship for the right of the deputy mayor. This is my position because that provision in the Constitutional Law came as a definition that it should be in the executive authority at a time when they were chieftains and under the executive authority was thought of as a member of the headship. And having a headmaster is a little different story. And I'm the same, so that's my attitude if I were to raise it to 10% and 15% to the captain. But good. So there's a situation where it could be discussed whether some level is good, and always. Now of course, perhaps in the meantime so many rights went forward that 5% is acceptable. Therefore, there is always an opportunity for an open debate, but that is why there is a provision in the Constitution that laws concerning national minorities should be decided by a two-thirds majority, so there should always be a broader consensus on these rights. It's one protective mechanism that's good, that needs to be left behind. As for the bilingualism debate before the vice president interrupts me, I am sorry that the committee has not discussed the proposal to conclude one-third of the MPs and has proposed to the Parliament not to accept it. Because the government was clear about it, and I wouldn't run away from that debate to take that item off the agenda that's been standing for years, or more than a year, and I don't think it's necessary. So the proposal is that the board discuss this and put it on the agenda and propose to the Parliament not to accept that conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88703	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll stop working now. I'll see you Wednesday at 9.30, we'll discuss item 8. In our agenda. This is a proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the state budget. I want everyone to have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-17-0.u88704	Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 for the needs of national minorities. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 for the needs of national minorities is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 88 votes in favour, 12 abstentions and 1 vote against. Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly with the item of the agenda: - Proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2014 and the proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2014; The proposal for this report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The material is published on the Croatian Assembly website. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Igor Radinovic, Deputy Minister of Finance. Here's your esteemed colleague. ... Come on, come on, come on, come on, [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
