ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75755	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. Today we will discuss: - Free Zone Report for 2011 and 2012. The report was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received a proposal for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. I ask, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr Drazen Pross. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75756	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, distinguished parliamentary representatives. At the end of November 2013, more precisely 29.11.Last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act, which make it important to facilitate the business of users of concessions and users of free zones in the Republic of Croatia and after Croatia's accession to the EU. The law was passed without a vote against 94 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention and presenting these amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act, we also announced this Report on Free Zones Management for 2011 and 2012 in general the first such report since the entry into force of the Law on Free Zones of 1996. Allow me to briefly remind before the Free Zones Report itself that amendments to the Free Zone Act have been made. Administrative difficulties for beneficiaries of concessions and users of free zones have been removed and due to non-compliance with the rules in force, but what is very important is the improvement of the relationship between the grantor and the beneficiary of concessions for free zones. In particular, it shall be prescribed by a regulation adopted by the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Trade, with the agreement of the Minister of Finance within 60 days of the entry into force of this law, relating to the delivery of documents and the manner in which the concession fee is paid. I have to say, that rule was passed to the 6th graders this year, and it went into effect on the 20th of February of this year. It is also possible to extend the concession for free zones but also to exclude the concessionr from having a legal basis for handling when a change in the economic interest of concession users and users of free zones, which is, of course, within a time limit of 25 years, on which concessions are normally given for free zones are realistically and expected. We particularly point out that the obligation for users of free zones has been introduced to deliver data on business in free zones at the request of users of concessions, and that is precisely because of the obligation to produce annual reports on the business of free zones submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to the Croatian Parliament, and that is the first report we have and are considering today. I also note that the amendments and amendments to the law do not affect exactly the use of tax reliefs made possible by those users of free zones, based on the amendment and addition of the 2008 Free Zones Act, i.e. those tax reliefs for free zones and the execution of investments of more than 1 million kuna remain in force until use, and the longest until 31.12.2016. Therefore, tax benefits holders for the investment made by free zone users exercise the right to exempt profits by the year in which they will benefit from the upper limit of the permitted aid intensity, and the longest until 31.12.2016. Otherwise, the amount of tax exemptions for 2011 amounted to €53.6 million, €30.9 million for 2012. Investments in free zones of existing and future users of free zones shall also be subject to appropriate existing incentive measures in accordance with the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Environment. Dear MPs and MPs The report, which is before you, contains a presentation of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, but also a presentation of the state of free zones, common data, but also of each single data area for the year 2012 in the partnership with 2011. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, therefore the ministry responsible for free zones, collected data on the business of free zones during the next period for 2011. The data received at the end of January 2013 from the beneficiary of concessions, users of free zones, were received by the end of May 2013 and verified data from the Ministry of Finance, i.e. tax administrations on the tax relief used for 2012 were received during October 2013. After processing data at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts this report is now submitted even though it was prepared in November 2013, the 2013 report will be submitted at the end of this year and thus in the future. I say all of this not to say that there were no data in previous periods, but the fact is that they were not systematicized and clearly expressed, and this always raises doubts about non-transparentity until now. So again, we point out the introduction of order, discipline and the most important responsibility. The number of free zones and their area in 2011 and 2012 did not change. In the Republic of Croatia, a total of 13 free zones can therefore be grouped into two categories: land zones 9 free zones and ports 4 free zones on the maritime good. The report also shows a map of free zones showing that free zones are distributed throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And allow me a brief review of the situation in the areas in 2011-2012. In three Slavonian free zones of Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod operated a total of 78 users of free zones with over 1700 employees. The share of exports in the total income of users is about 53% in the free zone of Slavonski Brod, while in Osijek and Vukovar there was about 11%. The main export markets were the Member States of the European Union, Serbia and BiH. All three free zones are fully infrastructured and located along large roads, Zagreb-Belgrade highways, railway hubs and in Vukovar and Slavonski Brod near river ports. Free zones in Bjelovar and Varazdin are also fully equipped and close to large roads. In a free zone in Varazdin, a total of 15 users worked with more than 2950 employees. The share of production-processing activities was 99% and the share of exports was over 92%. The most important export markets were the markets of the Member States of the European Union, as well as the US, Brazil, Switzerland and BiH and Montenegro. In Bjelovar, one user employed 59 employees, also the share of exports in the total income of the users was 99.5% high and was fully achieved on the Italian market. The free zone of Zagreb had 70 users with slightly more than 440 employees in the reference period, with a share of production processing activity of around 85%, with a share of exports in total revenues slightly more than 74%, and the main export markets were EU and CEFTA Member States, but also with US markets, Switzerland and Turkey. During the period covered by the report in the free zone in Krapina, 13 users acted with slightly more than 200 employees, with an export share of around 20% in revenues and is also fully infrastructured. Most of the free zone area is free for any new users. The free zone of Kukuljanovo, as well as Split-Dalmatia free zone in Split, did not have users during the reference period and as such pose a challenge for their founders in the context of decision-making for future development areas under the free zone concession. Four free zones in the Republic of Croatia therefore operate in port areas, from Pula via Rijeka and Split to Poreč. In total, 57 users operated in these free zones in 2011 and 2012, with slightly more than 2000 employees. The share of exports in total revenues is 64-83%, and the main export markets are the prominent markets of the EU Member States, in particular Italy, Slovenia, Hungary, Germany and of course the markets of the region of BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, and so on. The distant markets of China, India, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates. And when we sum up the results of the free zone business, we see that the users of the free zones were mostly small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with an average of 34 employees. The share of exports during the reporting period was 72.5%, the number of users increased by 3% in 2012 compared to 2011. The number of employees is unfortunately 9% lower in 2012 than in 2011. When we talk about financial indicators, the total income in 2012 was earned 5.7 billion kuna, so 2.3% more than in 2011, the profit in 2012 was 649.5 million kuna, so 7.5% more than in 2011, and for 2012 the total income of the state and cities and municipalities of concession fee was 450 000 kuna, and in 2011. 486 thousand kuna. Let me point out in the end that free zones are an instrument of economic policy of the Republic of Croatia which is important for the overall economy, have effects on even regional development and on increasing exports and investments, and are recognised as an instrument of economic policy in other EU Member States. So we have a total of 70 free zones in 22 Member States. The effects for the overall economy are largely reflected in the business results of users of free zones. This report suggests that the potential of free zones in attracting investors from third countries is particularly high in the Far East. In particular, I mention the free zone of Kukuljanovo, but not fully used and therefore further promotional activities around the free zones will be directed primarily in this direction. As a positive example of the opportunities available by the free zones, we highlight the free zone established in 2013 in the hinterland of Rijeka in the area of Škrljeva and the economic interest in establishing this free zone is based on existing and limited storage facilities of the river port for now, and it will increase not only this storage capacity but also further strengthen this traffic direction with all naturally positive effects for the overall Croatian economy. By amending and supplementing the Free Zones Act in November 2013, the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, improved the legislative framework for the business of free zones. The Government of the Republic of Croatia makes its further contribution to the implementation of the applicable law on one side by submitting this report to the Croatian Parliament since the entry into force of the 1996 Free Zones Act. But it also contributes to the introduction of transparency in both this area and this business regime. In conclusion, allow me to show up briefly on this occasion and the state of the free zones today. After the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in 1.7.2013, the applicable special conditions of business primarily of customs and tax character apply only to third countries, i.e. trade outside the EU. The fact is that about 67% of the trade of goods in the Republic of Croatia with abroad takes place on the internal market. Therefore, with other Member States of the European Union. From all those contacts, the information we have with the free zones is evident that the free zones themselves are aware of the circumstances and changes that occurred after 1 July 2013 and of course the consequences of their business. Therefore, the possibilities for improving further business are actively considered. I therefore use the opportunity to mention that at the end of this month, the free zone of Bjelovar stops working precisely to improve the business of the sole user of the free zone, a successful company operating on the internal market of the European Union, which is the Italian market because their operating conditions outside the free zone regime are more acceptable. No customs records or other administrative burdens. Also in the free zone of Đuro Djakovic in Slavonski Brod, there is a change in the area where part of the users of the free zone will remain 41 while one user stays in the free zone regime. All others will be allowed to operate in accordance with the conditions of business on the Croatian market as part of the EU internal market, which, of course, is more acceptable than operating in the business zone regime at this point. At the last meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a decision was taken to amend the decision to grant a concession for the establishment of a free zone Đuro Đaković Slavonski Brod d.o.o. On the other hand, just today in Rijeka, it is working to change the area of the free zone at the port of Rijeka at the Brajdica container terminal in the economic interest of Rijeka's port to build a new railway terminal with its associated cranes and other accompanying machinery, which opens up new opportunities to expand business and facilitate product placement on foreign markets and, above all, preserve existing and create new jobs. In addition to the benefits mentioned above, which for investors of the current or future free zone users stem from the Investment Encouragement Act, is particularly relevant to investors who are interested in dealing with third countries and who correspond to this geographical location and transport infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia. One option is the re-registeration in some forms of entrepreneurship infrastructure, and of course all those benefits stemming from the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the economic interest of users of concessions for free zones, and users of free zones, proposes to adopt free zones reports for 2011 and 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75757	I thank the Deputy Minister. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club will speak to a respected colleague, Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75758	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies, Deputy Deputy Minister of State. Here is how the Deputy Minister said this is the first time that is very good, and the HDZ Club will accept this report anyway, because for the first time in one place in front of this House, one such report has been delivered that processes the entire practical territory of the Republic of Croatia and all the free zones in Croatia. The Deputy Minister spoke of some details of this report. I don't think there's too much need for me to go back to everything he said. However, the report is the most important and simplest to understand if you look at the 2012 summary indicator table. So, as the Deputy Minister said, it is evident that there were 13 business zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 and 2012. Four of them were port business zones. In 2013, as said by Deputy Minister not in Škrljev but in the town of Bakr in the area of Kukuljanov and Škrljev, a concession for another 14 free zone was obtained. However, something else is seen from this table. It is apparent that of the total area of free zones in the area of the Republic of Croatia, an economic function of some 3 million 828 thousand 522 square meters of land was placed. There are still 14 more, i.e. in all 14 zones of 3 million 534 925 thousand square meters, so practically one half of the total area in the Republic of Croatia. Number of users 234, number of employees 7931. Unfortunately, the number fell somewhere in early 2011, here it was not visible, but it was at the level of all free zones in the Republic of Croatia something over 9,000 employees. Incomes are 5 billion 709 kuna, expenditures 4 billion 303, profits 649 470 million kuna, investments in these zones 139 million 525 and exports from all of them are therefore 4 billion 138 834 million and 800 kuna. Most of these zones, as the deputy minister said, are fully equipped. But what's the problem? In part, he touched himself in his discussion. The current problem in all these zones if you look at the last item in this table you can see where the export from these zones went. So most of the countries with which we are now in the community and in this sense should be considered in a completely different way. Considering that the zones are very important and because of these at this point, 7.5 thousand employees hope to fill the entire area and then at least that much. However, when we think about and talk about the benefits they enjoy in these areas, then we get a little bit of a hike. I don't know how many of you know that most of these free zones have made up the Croatian Free Zones Association. She's very active. We are, by chance, members of that association, so that we have a whole series of memos, talks and meetings held with and with the minister, with the ministry's staff to highlight these problems and to deal with the issues that at this stage and the entry into the EU and the business of these zones themselves have problems. I brought a few notes here from these meetings, and less than a year ago at a meeting with Minister Maras, we remained a little caught up in thinking of him as the head of the ministry's leadership but respecting the fact that the former Ministry of Economy broke down into two ministries, that he too had been given the power of the new Law on the formation and detachment of the work of the ministries, the state services might have been somewhat vague at that time. However, the Free Zones Association has proposed new models related to both VAT and goods entering and exiting the area of free zones by considering EU entry. And I'll read you from this note a few thesis of Minister Maras. For entrepreneurs in areas, the new VAT law does not change, does not mean anything because they can refuse VAT, however, within 60 to 90 days. But now this finding, why would entrepreneurs in the zones be privileged to the others? They are competitive enough anyway, especially those in northwestern Croatia. The words are Minister Maras. He pointed out that he can only stand up for what he believes in. He's not sure why the entire Republic wouldn't be a free zone, not just the current areas of free zones. He wonders who's gonna charge the budget for their salaries. It is not agreed that, in addition to the delivery of goods to free zones, the release and provision of services under the current proposal of the VAT Act which was at that time because it will make it difficult for the taxation procedure because it will be difficult to know at some point what is the final destination of the goods on which the service is carried out. That's what Minister Maras said at the time. And then our Free Zones Association, because less than a year ago, we passed this new law, and we discussed its changes on Wednesday, if you remember those 66% fill-in zones. A letter has been sent by free zones to the esteemed Mr. Minister, please inform us how free zones can be written in a unique register of entrepreneurial infrastructures in order to obtain the right to apply, etc., etc. The answer came up spotlessly and in response we learned that free zones are not part of entrepreneurship infrastructure. So on Wednesday, we talked about some law, these free zones are usually covered by some urban plans of business zones, entering those 66% of fill-up or default according to the criteria of land acquisition, land donation by the Republic of Croatia, but now we know that they are not essentially entrepreneurship infrastructure. In which way the zones do not represent entrepreneurship infrastructure and in this part we have heard from the Deputy Minister that they are mostly they and equipped in specificities that such zones must have. So, a fence of 2.5 metres, lit, maximum of two entrances, customs space, etc. In this part, a new law has been passed, we welcome it, the regulation has been adopted, the extension of concessions and privileges which are valid until the end of 2016, so said the Deputy Minister. What about later? But what is later in that part that some of which is also said here in the introduction that some of the users of the free zone are moving from that free zone regime to a business in the form of ordinary business zones without privileges that they have as users of free zones. What's important about this report, I welcome it, and I hope it goes on like that, that the data here is clearly shown even though we had that data, but the internal data we used as a free zone association. The issue of EU entry is raised, the business of all these users in these areas, only to third countries and when we look at this table we see where these exports are, mainly Italy, an EU member, mainly Germany, Hungary, are closer to the environment. What we have left, therefore, was exported from this area, remains of this country in our immediate environment, most of the BiH, something of Montenegro, Serbia. I think that in today's situation, in a completely different way, you have to approach this problem, the world has become as often spoken to the global village. I think that Croatia has huge potential in the sense of geostrategic which has practically no country in our environment primarily and for routes traffic from the port pools and Rijeka, down Ploče, Split. Otherwise, when we talk about the free zones of Rijeka port, they are not located only in the area of Rijeka but in the wider area, so we are talking about part of the free zones and in the Bakra swimming pool, in the business zone of the mountain of Kukuljanovo, we will have hope of Omisalj on Krka, so it is a broader coverage and then we are coming up with that problem that we discussed yesterday, the modernisation of that work and the railway line, the construction of the infrastructure so that we can drag these future capacities that the minister here today said that it is at this moment that the projects are being prepared for the expansion of port terminals in the area of Rijeka's port administration. In any case, with these little notes that I pointed out because I only brought a few of these letters between the Free Zones Association and the Ministry themselves, I think that the Ministry should also, we all have a little different ways of thinking about our problems, respecting our field experience, and that's what I've been talking about here today, and there's going to be a vote on that law, I hope that you've accepted the amendments because all these amendments and that law on promotion, the construction of entrepreneurial infrastructure is exactly what these things are all about. We are here in the Parliament those who should feel uncomfortable with every unemployed citizen and every job is very important to us and for every job right here in this House on the Government's proposal, but also in cooperation with all of us, along with proposals and useful amendments, we can get us a job that will open or in some free or business zone to be a little less uncomfortable than we are right now. Anyway, we welcome the report. As a club, we will accept it, but I think that close cooperation is needed between the Free Zones Association, the Resolute Ministry itself, and then respecting well-intentioned amendments so that it is not only cut by the political key here in the Parliament. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75759	Thank you. The replica was reported by the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Klaric, you mentioned the future or the future of free zones. If we look at it and you mentioned it, the deputy minister mentioned the structure of the countries to which it was exported. So, above all, we have the EU country, Italy, I could mark it as a constant that appears in almost all free zones but also Slovenia, Hungary, Germany, the Netherlands, etc. Non-EU countries are, above all, BiH, Serbia, the United States, Turkey, etc. In my view, the objective of the free zones was to generate stable export-oriented production entities with a stable market. This has been achieved and given that some are mainly exporting to the EU market that you mentioned, so we are EU members, there is no longer any need for their action within the free zones. So, I think the goal has been achieved and if some companies want to get out of free zones like we have an example in Bjelovar, I think it's just an indicator that we actually achieved the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75761	The replica matches Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75762	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I agree with you, the goal has been achieved but only the first degree of that goal. By joining the EU, I also mentioned the global village, not only the EU but also the Netherlands and Germany and Slovenia and Italy, it is much wider and has a lot of interest in us. Believe me, from America, and here it is, and the Arab countries are interested in LNG in Krk. So this part of the goal of joining the EU with the reliefs that we have achieved at the moment, but it is not necessary to stand on it and start some new business regime with this alone, it is necessary to enable that space and such conditions and perhaps even more favourable conditions for those outside the EU, and there are many, many more than there are in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75763	In the name of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Caine will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75764	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. Free zones, as we heard from the deputy minister, begin with the work of '96. For years and a whole series of laws, the rules are governed by that matter. Now, what do we have out of free zones? We heard more or less everything, in Croatia we have these 13 free zones, they are free zones of Bjelovar, one..., free zones in Slavonski Brod, in Krapina-Zagorje County is one, free zone of Osijek, then the area of Vukovar, the area of Varazdin, Zagreb, Kukuljanovo not far from Rijeka or above Rijeka, however, a free zone in Split-Dalmatia County above Split. These are free zones in the land area of the Republic of Croatia and then we have free zones in the Učko area of the Republic of Croatia, which are the ports of Ploče, Pula port, Rijeka port and Split port. Now what are the benefits of free zones? By 29 July 2008, users of free zones who had invested in construction and participated in the building of the facility by investing more than 1 million kuna, while not using the upper limit of the permitted aid intensity for the investment of the regulated regional support map, gained the status of the holder of the tax benefit for the execution of the investment of users of the free zone. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 37 of that Law, users of free zones who carried out their economic activity in the free zone until 29.07.2018, acquired the status of the taxable person for the free zone user and therefore pay the profit tax, depending on the spatial unit for the second level statistics in which the free zone is located. And what does that mean exactly? That users of free zones in northwestern Croatia pay at 75% of the prescribed tax rate for 2012 amounting to 20%, or are taxed at 15%, users of free zones in central and eastern areas, means Panon Croatia and the Adriatic Croatia pay means 50% of the prescribed tax rate for 2012 amounting to 20%, or are taxed at 10%, and users of free zones in the area of the city of Vukovar pay 25% of the prescribed tax rate for 2012 which is 20%, which will say that they are taxed at 5%. And I'm sure it's business in the free zones, you can say that freely, any more than favourable. Now that we're looking at these zones, we see that when we look at, I mean, employment data, so when we look at income data, expenditures, get free zones, we see the following. Bjelovar, income somewhere around 30 million kuna, number 59, profits a million 700 thousand kuna. Djuro Djakovic had an income of 351 million kuna, and there he worked in a free zone of 1002 employees. Free zone Krapina-Zagorska, 241 million kuna. Free zone in Osijek, 278 million kuna, 441 workers. Podunavska 296 employees, 202 million kuna income. Varazdinska, who was the best stalker or stalker, is in it for as many as 2954 workers, the basic income is 2 million, 2 billion, excuse me, 46 million kuna, a profit of as much as 119 million kuna. In Zagreb, there are 442 employees, total income of €27 million, profit of €25 million. And now to skip and get to the port of Pula where only 374 people were employed, the total income of only 94 million kuna. Here, just to compare it to the port of Rijeka where 932 people worked in the free zones with a total income of 947 million kuna. In the port of Split, 258 million kunas of income, and in the port of Ploče as much as 231 million kunas. Luka Pula, I repeat again, 94 million kuna. I can't understand why that free zone in Pula didn't come alive, why she wasn't stalking, why she wasn't recognized? However, I can and understand because in 2002 Istra had 36.6% higher GDP than the Croatian average, and today it is 30% lower than that amount and only 26% higher. In 2002, we had 18% more GDP than the Primorje-Gorski County, today only 2% higher. 2002. Istria had 18% less GDP than the city of Zagreb, and today it has 40% less GDP than the city of Zagreb. So what led to that? About that some other time, I'm not going to go after this speaker right now. But what is certain is that the potential of free zones in Croatia is not used or better said, so it is not sufficiently recognized. We failed to do so until we were in the EU or when we were not a member of the EU. We did not do the same in Istria where I said we have the smallest production volume in one Croatian free zone and where we have the biggest fall of all free zones compared to 2011. I think that the free zones were relatively well arranged, perhaps there was a free zone in Gaženica not far from Zadar halfway to Bibinj, perhaps there was a free zone in Karlovac, and there was certainly a free zone in Istria that was missing in Luci Bršica. Otherwise, the total revenue of all free zones in 2011, 2012 I do not know for when this report is 2011 and 2012 for when this report was 5.7 billion kuna, that is 750 million euros. The expenditure in the free zones was 4.3 billion kuna or 565m euros, and profits in the free zones were 649m kuna or 85.3m euros. These data suggest that in 2011, Croatia was not yet in the EU to operate precisely in free zones, yet the zones have not been recognised. I said just before in Varazdin there were nearly three thousand people in the free zones and the total income of the zone was 2 billion 46 million kuna. In Zagreb, 1 billion kuna, in Rijeka 947 million kuna, means total of these three free zones is 4 billion kuna or 70%. I repeat, Pula, it's only 94 million kuna. So in one Varazdin through a free zone 22 times more traffic was done or produced than in Pula, in one Zagreb 11 times more, in one River 10 times more than in Pula. I want to believe that, despite Croatia being a member of the EU today, free zones still have potential, but that potential must certainly be done. I personally want to believe that it is a good valve for the export of Croatian products. The problem is if we don't have anything to export, then someone would tell us a cynic zone, and then they turn into import oasis. And I'm surprised that this Pula Free Zone that's closest to the West, I don't mean Slovenia here, that's where I mean, first of all, Italy or Austria, and that's where it lags behind. To conclude, it's a pity that this potential wasn't used when it was time. And I think when it comes to free zones, there must be no exception to anyone, whether it's Israeli, Chinese, Russian, Serbian, Italian, Bosnian-Herzegovina or I don't know what capital. Yes, and as Mr. Klaric earlier said and mentioned the problem of the railway, perhaps Istria with the area in Pula has a problem because it is not connected by Učka or Cicaria tunnel or railway tunnel to the rest of the Republic of Croatia. In Istria, a free zone or this port free zone in Pula should also be extended to Pula Airport, the land is owned by the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Defence and certainly should be considered and opened by another one in Rasa. I want to believe that someone down in the field is going to recognize it like that, not to mention the county. I guess he'll be in the field in the future, not just golfing. But clearly there is nothing to mix in the zones, and with some other activities it cannot simply be excluded. In our zones, as the deputy minister said, mostly "small employers" do, not just them, the average is around 34 employees. Exports are dominantly oriented, as much as 70% of products are exported. What is particularly important is that they do business positively and that is what comes clearly and foreigners invest in such areas. When we look at where the exports are then normally exported to the West as we once spoke to Europe, but also to the United States, to the Arab countries, so it is also exported to Switzerland, Israel, etc. And now what's most important is when I look at the best decorated area in Varazdin, they export both to Germany and Slovenia, and to Italy, Hungary, Austria, Brazil, the Netherlands, USA, Switzerland, the Czech Republic, BiH, Montenegro, Slovakia. Zagreb exports to the EU means the entire CEFTA, Israel says the United States, Switzerland, Turkey. The river exports, for example. in Hungary, Serbia, BiH, the Czech Republic, Slovakia in Pula alone only through the port of Italy, and therefore the size of only 94.3 million kuna is the smallest unacceptable. Let them look up to Luke Split, who, for example, There are 258.6 million kunas of income, 30 million kunas of profits and exports to Slovenia, Bosnia, Germany, Serbia, Montenegro, Turkey, Italy, China, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and India respectively. I repeat, only exports to Italy are exported below. It is certain that the potential, once again I will say, these zones should be exploited. I also invite people in the County of Istria and the Ministry to design a free zone of Bršica to work at the pulse airport. Free zones are true, today they can only deal with third countries outside the European Union. 67% of Croatia's exports are to the EU area, but I repeat, Croatia can certainly be an interesting valve through these free zones and for companies from BiH and for companies from Israel, Arab countries, Russia, Serbia, China, other CEFTA countries, etc. Work will certainly be difficult today after Croatia's entry into the European Union, so working in the zones will be difficult, but I still believe exactly by the conditions I deliberately quoted, more favourable than elsewhere. Life needs to be redefined, but life in the zones can't stop. All in all this report, for the first time such a sub-strategic agent is more than useful because if we had it earlier, we might have warned of some illogicalities as I recognize in the free pulse zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75765	Thank you. We have two replicas. First honoured Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, in your speech you spoke on the one hand about favourable business in free zones, and on the other hand, about not being recognized or not using potential. I think we will agree that free zones are actually an instrument for the overall economy and in terms of increasing exports, which is also very important in terms of regional development, because we can actually act positively on regional development in this way. However, this is a comparative in 2012 and 2011, this report, which should, of course, be welcomed because every report actually gives us the opportunity to improve for next year. Therefore, since we passed the law at the end of 2013, amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act where administrative difficulties were in fact eliminated, the relationship improved, the possibility given to improve relations in concessions. Then also the possibility and extensions of concessions, but also the deductions from concessions, since economic interest can also be changed by entering the European Union as you have mentioned. However, since this law has also adopted both the structure and the order and the responsibility, it will be very interesting to see the following report which will be to see how this law actually applied whether there has been a shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75767	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75768	I can repeat once again that these are commendable reports means in free zones for 2011, for 2012, but I cannot believe that the data for 2013 are better than the 2011 or 2012 data for two or three reasons. First of all, the conditions for business in the free zones are redefined due to Croatia's entry into the European Union 1.7.2013. There's a second-place foreign relationship right now. When we talk about external trade, you know that at the end of last year there was a more pronounced trend in the decline in goods exports and to quote, the value of goods exports in November last year decreased by 17% compared to the same month of the previous year and the cumulative rate of exports increased from 6.3% in the first 10 months to 7.4% in the first 11 months. However, it should be fair and notice that no export of ships has led or has contributed most to this, but it certainly also affects free zones and finally, if we bear in mind that there has been a fall in direct investments, we can also draw the conclusion that free zones have been doing something more modest than in 2011 or 2012. But once again, what is important to mention is that when we look at these financial indicators and revenues, they are 5.7 billion kunas, which is commendable, some of the free zones that have been well introduced, as well as in Split and Zagreb, Varazdin in particular, make a significant amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75769	Second replica, Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, first of all, when we talk about free zones, I am pleased to hear the praises you have given above all to one of the best zones in Croatia, which is the Varazdin Free Zone. Especially when we compete in what environment we can have and what benefits or opportunities were there. If we have free zones in Croatia which we also heard we have areas in which we have invested a lot, they are not active. If there are areas that have many advantages to say within large industries such as Zagreb, that are within the large port centres that can redefine that potential again and then it can be said that the Varazdin Free Zone has certainly exploited the potential that it can. Now, I would still like to ask in that section that we are talking about areas based on the total income of the external and commercial output of exports/imports, in which all countries are exported, what is the number of employees, and yet perhaps in a further report we should say those who are employed, or the number of employees, and how many salaries they have. So I think that in that part of it, the same benefits of the free zone that we have from the total income and we've used everything, but maybe we should also focus more on those people who work in those free zones that they have certain benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75771	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75772	In all things, I agree with you that pay must be very important to each of us, but even more important right now is business. What I once again want to apostrophe on the basis of this data. Varazdin must be the best-run and decorated zone. 2954 people work in Varazdin. It is more than it does in all other or remaining areas in the Republic of Croatia. The total income makes 2 billion 46 million kunas, so we can say that that means somewhere around 40%. And I dare even say, I dare even say that even the gain of Varazdin is greater than all free zones, not counting those in the river. Getting a Varazdin free zone is 119.5 million kuna. In Pula I look at a minus 890 thousand kuna, and the profit in Rijeka is as much as 464 million kuna. So there's definitely potential on the coast. But again, I am talking about the total income of the Varazdin Free Zones are significantly greater than all port free zones whether it is about Luce Ploče, Pula, Rijeka or Split and indeed something of this Varazdin example speaks, and it says that the Varazdin Free Zone is also exporting to the largest number of European countries or whatever we want from Germany through Slovenia, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Brazil, the Netherlands, the United States, Switzerland and so on. As long as the pulse is exclusive and only in Italy, even though we're closest, I'd say west.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75773	We're continuing the club debate. It is the turn of the HNS club and the esteemed representative of Dragutin Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75774	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Here is the first Report on Free Zones in 2012 and a comparison with business in 2011. First something about free zones. We heard about them in the introduction to establish and operate in accordance with the Free Zones Act and the Rules governing that matter. These are areas where entrepreneurs are provided except for a good location and built infrastructure and additional advantages and reliefs and are listed well in this Report, and in particular the Deputy Minister spoke of them. For these reliefs and privileges, the Croatian state is relevant, but this does not mean that certain benefits cannot be granted by local self-government units especially when it comes to the level of municipal contribution, the level of municipal compensation and other fees. In fact, free zones could be said to be the economic units in which a special scheme of benefits, relief and stimulation is provided and which are the most important objective of attracting domestic and foreign investors to carry out economic activities. As we have heard in Croatia there are 13 free zones established to encourage investment in production and export, but also as important levers in the launch of regional development and are individually all numbered and described in this report. On Thursday, we had a debate here on the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure with the final draft of the law. In my opinion, it is also an important law that should introduce more order in the construction and expansion of entrepreneurship zones especially in that segment where the state is involved with its co-financing and land donation funds. The debate warned several MPs, given that out of the 346 areas in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia participated, there were no entrepreneurial activities in them. I mentioned this information about the number of inactive economic zones for some similarity to today's report, and as is evident from the report itself, as well as the presentation of the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, and it seems to me to be in the Government and Deputy Minister here today. The results in the zones are pretty uneven. In those two largest of the existing zones, unfortunately too little activity was at least in the time covered by the report so that they are half-empty, although quality infrastructure is equipped. On the contrary, good results are recorded in the neighbourhood of one of these areas in the industrial zone that operates on the principle of the entrepreneurial zone. However, the results set out free zones in Varazdin, Zagreb and Rijeka. In total, it is in free zones according to data for 2012 as we have already heard 234 small medium-sized entrepreneurs do. The number itself increased by 3% compared to the year before, but unfortunately the number of employees was lower by 9%. He fell from 8.7 grand to 7.9 grand. This rationalisation, as it appears, has shifted to financial results, as revenues in the free zones have reached a total of 5.7 billion in 2012 and have slightly increased by 2.3% compared to 2011, but according to data from the ministry's report it was around 649 million kuna and has increased by 7.5%. So the profit has increased but the number of workers has been reduced. It should be pointed out that at the level of the exports themselves as well as other operating results in those years, the Varazdin Free Zone is set out. For now, it is the leader among the zones because a third of all revenues, over 2 billion, are being realised in its area, employs a third of all free-zone employees of around 3000. By achieving a relatively small number of entrepreneurs, all of them around 15. For example, 70 employees who employ 442 workers operate in the Zagreb zone, and their revenues reach more than billions of kuna. I will not present any other information because they are the same for everyone in the report, and they are well reported by fellow Cain. The colleagues and colleagues of the free zone, as we have heard, provide the entrepreneurs with other than the appropriate location and infrastructure solutions and additional benefits and relief. However, this report does not address the consequences of Croatia's entry into the EU, which certainly has an impact and is looking for a new way of operating in free zones. I mean entrepreneurs and investors from EU countries. That's what the Deputy Minister was talking about. According to those responsible in the zones, there was an increase in administration. From keeping a variety of records, customs procedures, to a new way of calculating and paying taxes, and what causes them to be deplorable. That's what I was talking to the Director of the Varazdin Free Zone. However, it is good, it does not refer to entrepreneurs outside the EU. Talks with entrepreneurs and investors from the EU give the impression that it may now be more acceptable for them to carry out economic activities in classical business areas that promote the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and which also ensure the favourableness of the partitioning of business space on fully-infrastructured land. And there's a new Strategic Investment Act. Most of the free zone concessions still last for more than 10 years, and in entrepreneurship or industrial zones, as well as free zones, something in a smaller volume can actually be said in all kinds of zones, two key issues. The first is construction and what kind of infrastructure they have, what are the conditions of land supply or the height of communals, I mean the municipal contribution, the communal fees, the level of concessions, and the other are the general conditions of business provided and prescribed by the state. These conditions must be optimised, prices must be minimal, and if investors want to be attracted and to enable the creation of as many jobs as possible and globally this is actually one of the ways of resolving Croatia's biggest problem right now, which is unemployment. The State should be more involved here to make land prices more competitive but not in a way that what is given without compensation by giving entrepreneurs still ultimately pays a fair price or compensation for that same land to the organiser of the zone or unit of local self-government. We also need to reduce various restrictions, a short-term example of the one about the remote zone that wasn't needed for me because we had a quality safety percentage of construction. In order to be competitive in this process of attracting domestic and foreign investment and investment, we must participate all of us, from the Government through the competent ministries, regional and local self-government and administrations to the others involved in the process. I will again boast in my regional self-government building permit goes out in 15 days. And to return to the Free Zone Report, it shall include data obtained from the relevant services, zone management as well as the undertakings themselves in the zones and, on the basis of these data, it shall be so conceived and drawn up. The HNS Club will accept this Free Zone Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75775	Thank you. We will also hear the views of SDP club and respected colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, as has already been said before us is the first Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia and the first since the Law on Free Zones was applied, so from the second half of the 1990s. The SDP club primarily supports such systematicity and supports the commitment to transparency of data delivery as well as transparency of the submission of the Law Implementation Reports. Since the Free Zones Act is one of the strategic laws, i.e. free zones are the instrument of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that this approach is also necessary for any praise. So, as I said, free zones are an instrument of economic policy with three objectives. First of all, the increase in exports, then the increase in employees and more equidistant economic regional development. As for the increase in exports, we had the opportunity to hear in the data already given to this speaker that exports have a total share of 72.5% in the overall business of free zones, which is why we can estimate as satisfactory. Also in terms of increasing workers in free zones today, 7 931 employees are, therefore, certainly an impressive figure in such a difficult economic situation. And more equidistant economic development, these areas are primarily imagined regionally, so strategic and displaced, so we have 6 zones in Primorje Croatia and 7 in Continental Croatia, of which 4 are in Northwest Croatia, 3 are in the Eastern and 3 are in the North Adriatic and 3 are in the South Adriatic. Unfortunately, what we can conclude from this report is that different zones differed and did business or that they were better or worse on the market and achieved better or worse results. As regards other indicators of free zones, we can also conclude that there is a continued growth in income at least in the report in question, and here we have heard some data on the fact that the 2013 results are probably better. That is indeed one good news and a good indicator in the light of the economic zone. Let me refer to the exact data, so in 2012, 5.71 billion kuna revenue was achieved which is 2.3% more than in the previous year and in 2011 respectively, 649.5 kuna revenue was achieved which is 7.5% more than the previous year. Also, as regards strengthening the economy, we can conclude that the share of processing production activities in the total revenues of free zones is also quite large. Of course, there is a zone where this percentage is really small, but I'd like to point out positive examples here. There is certainly a free zone of Bjelovar which, despite the fact that there is only one user, has a share of the processing industry of 100%, therefore one user, belongs to the processing production activity. Varazdin Free Zone 99%, Pula Free Zone 86.2%, Free Zone Zagreb 85% etc., etc. As for the revenues themselves, we can therefore conclude that I have already said that some free zones are better managed by some worse ones, certainly two light examples are the free zone of Varazdin and the free zone of Zagreb. The free zone of Varazdin, which recorded revenues in 2012 more than 2 billion kuna and a free zone of Zagreb, is slightly more than a billion kuna. Unfortunately, there are also those who are not doing so well, although the free zone of Kukuljanovo is only recently established, so it will be interesting to monitor its development until the free zone of Split-Dalmatia also has no income, we also have no available income data. The idea of free zones as well as the structure of countries in which exports are being made is also quite said here, but the fact that some entities within free women want to get out of the free zones system or move to regular business. It is also evident that if we also observe the structure of the countries in which the free zone is exported. When we look at the structure, I would divide it into two groups, one group is EU member states, another group is non-EU countries, what we need to conclude with this data that most of the countries in which they are exported are EU countries. With Italy probably as a constant or part of all free zones. So in the first group, Italy certainly leads, followed by Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany, etc., etc., all EU countries. In the second group, or among non-EU countries, it is the BiH, Serbia, United Arab Emirates, the United States, Montenegro, Israel, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and the People's Republic of China. It should also be noted that some of the free zones are directed exclusively at the EU area, so there is above all a free zone of Bjelovar that the minister would point out and mentioned that the user in the free zone Bjelovar will cross, so it will become an ordinary business zone that will no longer operate under the Free Zone Act and precisely because the only partner is Italy or the EU area. This, of course, gives us the thinking and future of free zones in the Republic of Croatia since we are now EU members and since the countries in which they are mainly EU members from free zones. My colleagues have already mentioned something about this before me, so allow me a few of my thoughts on this fact. First of all, the future of free zones in Croatia needs to be directed towards countries outside the EU market, we already see that there are examples, here some colleagues have said that there is also interest, thus all giving hope that, just as a member of the EU and the door of the EU, it can offer a lot to foreign markets and, as we speak, a logistics centre but also as an exporter. As with economic partners from the EU itself, I also make it easier for markets outside the EU to be accessible, so reducing manipulative costs, and above all I think of two markets, relatively large markets that are outside the EU, BiH and Serbia. We believe that the future of free zones should be designed by the Ministry, so the entrepreneurs themselves, the users of the free zones and the free zone themselves, above all, by dialogue and debate. I am pleased that this is the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts in which this is a jurisdiction and which will be able to entertain themselves and that this problem will not be lost in a larger system but will be as the Minister himself, the Deputy Minister, said but as the fact means only this report that the future of free zones will have the necessary attention and that I would already say in the document of the Ministry of Further Work. In addition, we have adopted a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship, I believe that free zones are also one of the tools that entrepreneurship in the field of the Republic of Croatia can and should be developed. In conclusion, this report has been submitted, we see in it the commitment of transparency to law enforcement, systematically done. The first time is before us, so since this law is implemented, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75777	Thank you. We have a single replica reported, the respected Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75778	Here's colleague Hajdukovic, the two of us agree on a lot of things when we disagree directly. But you mentioned the future of free zones and what I pointed out in my speech. I'm comforting the connection with those who run one of the free zones with units of local self-government and this Free Zones Association. Why? On the Ministry's website you can see the data, so today we say we have 14 free zones in the Republic of Croatia. Do you know how many across the EU are in 22 countries, until the moment Croatia enters the EU? 74. So 74 countries have, 22 countries have 74 free zones. It's perfectly normal for us to have certain free zones, and that's why I'm talking in that context and that question if you listened to me carefully when the Free Zones Association asked questions about the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure because the transformation is, it has to happen. So Croatia is also too small in the sense of exports and all of these problems relating to free zones. So, in that part of the narrowing will be, and the fact that the Deputy Minister has also pointed out, that some entrepreneurs in the free zones have decided on some normal business regime for a simple reason because there is no longer a need for such a regime when we become a member of the EU and all the millions that are being realized will be realized in the way they are achieved in any other country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75779	The replica corresponds to Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that my colleague and I are happy to agree, and we agree and surely agree that the future of free zones should be designed by all, so that I, as a representative, should make proposals for how the free zones should be transformed, or how they exist in the new regime, that is to say, we have entered the EU and you have said, should focus on foreign markets and what is really cost-effective to them as entrepreneurs, and what should future free zones look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75781	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote at noon. I thank the Deputy Minister, thank all those who participated in the debate. I'm setting a break by noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75782	Free Zones Report 2011 and 2012. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The 2011 and 2012 Free Zones Report is hereby adopted. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find the conclusion accepted unanimously with 100 votes in favour. This is what we ended today's vote on the points of the agenda. Who's calling? Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75783	Your Honor, Mr. President. You said we were done voting, but I don't understand something right now. The Croatian Parliament closed the debate on the draft Law following an emergency procedure on the election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament. Today we also got two government amendments to this bill. During the debate and proceedings were our two amendments to that same law. The President of the Republic also called for elections for the European Parliament. Today's decision will be published in the NN, which means that it is in effect and the law is not to be voted on. Now I'm asking what happened to that law. There's been an emergency procedure, there's been an emergency debate all day, and what now, why is there no vote on that law?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-21-0.u75784	Your Honor, these are the new circumstances that have decided not to vote today, so we'll take all these new circumstances into account and we'll let you know, all of you here are not just personally? It doesn't mean anything yet, but I'm telling you that we're going to take into account all the new circumstances that you yourself have stated. [[Intruder Lesar: Does this mean that the law has been withdrawn from the procedure?]] Well, we won't, I hope not, but I'll tell you what the reason is. [[So we're not going to change the law during the campaign.]] It's all right. Okay, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I schedule a continuation of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on Wednesday with, we begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. I ask that working bodies and clubs be held on Monday and Tuesday. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue the plenary session of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament already announced the item of the agenda. I see one hand in the air, respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
