ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76100	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we continue to discuss - the Final Proposal for a Law on State Support, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 625 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The State aid law entered into force on 1 July 2013 was adopted to enable the functioning of the Croatian State aid system in the European Union. The new law achieves a single system at the central level, means all powers relating to state support now in AZTN and the Ministry of Finance are united in one body means to the Ministry of Finance as the central body responsible for the state budget and to the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, thus enabling a single system of supervision and management of all State budget resources allocated in the form of state support for better efficiency, and, otherwise, because of its kind of centralisation of powers, it was not possible to achieve. What is very important through this law is that the database on all state aids will also be unique, in one place, following the fulfilment of certain technical preconditions, a comprehensive register of all State aid granted in the Republic of Croatia will be established. This will also be the case at national level with one full record of all the resources allocated as State aid, means by portfolios, by area, by species and by their users, and in order to fulfil the obligations towards the European Union which has the power to request information from Member States at any time on the aid granted, explicitly for example. According to the Small Value Support Regulation. In this way and with better monitoring, an increasing level of transparency and public access will be achieved so that at any moment you can see who received and the amount of state support. In terms of administrative capacity, we point out that this law provides for the takeover of employees of the Competition Protection Agency who worked on state aid at the Ministry of Finance and thus at the human resources level, where all state support experts will be in one place. It is important here to point out that AZTN also had no objections to this bill, expressing full willingness to cooperate in their implementation. So in this law, the emphasis is that this part of the powers and means of communication towards the European Union, where we know that AZTN is no longer in charge of defining support, but is the European Commission. We have a single body, we have a single base and a way of communicating with the European Commission will be executed by the Ministry of Finance. And as we know that we are also in the excessive deficit procedure, so this entire state support policy will definitely have to be consistent with this excessive deficit procedure so that we have one place and this base, we have a way of communicating and managing these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76102	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the HNS Club on this change is about state support, on the very state support of what was once and what was meant to be. As Mr. Deputy Minister said in his opening statement very briefly, so it will probably take me less than 15 minutes to elaborate this matter and express a very clear position. According to the former AZTN model, it played a key role in this system. Personally and as a representative of this agency and the quality of her work in the past years, I have spoken in this house on several occasions, so I would not like to repeat myself to burden you with these observations and opinions. At some stage of adaptation to European regulations, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the European Commission appear, in accordance with the acquis of the European Union, but also in practice. And now we're coming up with this new law novel, that is, this new solution that's come up with a series of experiences over the past nine months, experiences that have shown that actually the most practical solution is just like this. For what? State support if we could see how much from the state budget that we are spending on money to support different species and purposes, we would understand that it is a huge mass of money, that it is money that is collected by very difficult circumstances, from the Croatian economy in very difficult social circumstances, from taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And then, of course, it is expected that politics has a very clear position, the criteria for allocation, the transfer of those funds, the way they are used, the justification, of course they must be transparent, of course they must be stored as data in one place and available to the public and to any one who is to the least full of the budget from which they are paid. What practice have we had so far, how rationally billions of kunas of state aid have been used for various purposes, from agriculture, the economy and to the subsidisation of transport and some other branches that we should have subsidized. I guess that was said not only in this Croatian Parliament but also in the Croatian public a lot and a lot of things are known ladies and gentlemen and it took a very long time to do anything about it. He didn't do everything he had to do today either, but there he is. The idea that the Ministry of Finance responsible for the country's finances, the management of the country's finances has a very clear insight, a complete database that will be transparent and accessible to the public to see where our money is going, to see how justified what is being done is. I guess it's the beginning of some kind of policy approach that we can call reasonable and responsible. For this reason, the Croatian People's Party club appeals that we have this approach and principle in future in all domains of spending state money. You have to know why the money's going and where it's going. Support is needed. They are primarily needed by agriculture, they are needed by the economy that has come into existence. But we need to know why, how, who and under what circumstances. What we've had to look into the truth so far is a story of 20 years of easy scratching steam from the state budget. In a large number of cases, not all, in many cases, these support was justified but we also had a constant of 20 years of scratching money and it wasn't a pair of tiny ones, it was a pair of big ones. There is an answer to the question of where the largest number of luxury percapital limos in this country, which all other social indicators have very problematic, and about the economics that we are not talking about. This is a very likely answer to the question of how some who have very dung tax cards live in villas where you can talk in the context of an assessment in million amounts. That's one of the answers. Of course there are more. At this point in the agenda, this bill shows a clear intention to start clearing things up and to start creating very clear, very concrete and correct mechanisms of responsible management for the remaining money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76104	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76105	Comrade Baranovic, you have opened a series of questions. However, there are some things that simply need to be put in place and see if there were already some instruments, whether they were implemented. So let's start with the concession register. Who was the biggest opponent of the concession register? Those per unit of local self-government that gave concessions, those administrations by various ministries that gave concessions. They simply did not want it to be in one place and to be seen in principle whether a concession is too large or too small. Because what is it? And the level of the concession is in a certain way the support, that we understand each other. Because, and I'll talk about it later, now I don't have time. And the other thing we get with the budget is a bundle of material like this. Among other things, you have a program use of funds and a place of cost. However, do not be offended by colleagues and colleagues but no one reads these materials. Because if these materials were read then you'd get an insight and you'd probably get some kind of debate if what you said didn't happen. Because when what you said happens, it's the easiest thing to call someone out of politics, because he's a sound name and he's responsible for it. However, in order not to do so, the OIB was introduced. Why has someone been holding him back for four years I don't know, but this OIB was supposed to answer these questions from where some villa of 2 or 3 or 5 million euros if he has no income for all his tax revenues and his tax cards. Why is someone holding it back? Why did those who set up the OIB suddenly find themselves at the edge of all the guns in this country, because it was obviously a problem that some moral verticals would collapse. My colleagues and colleagues, there was no problem that the OIB began to function completely. And then we'd see why someone has 20 or 30 companies and why out of the total blocked companies 60% of them are jobless, actually without any employee and a number of other questions that you've asked. So there are instruments just a question of whether anyone wants them and wants to use them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76106	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76107	Dear fellow Shuker, so of course there are mechanisms just like in life any new model if engineers have made a good effort is better, more efficient, more efficient. So is this case. The mechanisms existed, but the results say they weren't enough. For this reason, I also support as a parliamentary representative, but also on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, this legal document. Transparency is something we stand for and why we stand for. The citizens have a right to know. It's not the point of the story that only 150 of us in this assembly that brought these materials to the sea of other materials can. Yeah, we can do that and the truth is that most people can't read it because it can't even get there. But there are interested in this society who have the right to know, in this society people have the right to know where the money is going, how justified it is to spend it, whether consumption is legally. People have a right to know. And that is the key line that in this law, in this idea that the data should be stored with the responsible ministry, which also carries political responsibility for the management of financial resources, to be stored in one place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76108	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76109	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Baranovic, you've really opened up a lot of these areas, and I have to admit, almost everything I agree with you. After all, Croatian laborers have already spoken many times in this part of which you spoke about the disproportionate property and income, or tax card. But I also absolutely support what you finally said that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know where they are, where their money goes and what they invest in. But let's say a rhetorical question, what when it happens, since this law only confirms what we already know is no longer an agency, or that the agency is not in charge of it, but the ministry, what when another ministry comes to a violation, or when certain funds are allocated to a legal entity, or even better to take over the debts of a legal entity? Is that support, then? And are these illegal support then? And will we then be struck by the European Commission? Cleanly, in that case, will the citizens know and be able to influence where their money is going?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76110	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As for the EU, we have accepted the rules of the game, we are counting on the European Commission. We have agreed to transfer some of the political sovereignty to, however, sovereignty in various elements and to the EU. We estimated, many years ago, by consensus of Croatian politics, that this is the solution. I still believe we've assessed well. If we did, it'll show years. Of course, as regards possible failures in the ministries that are related to certain types of support, I really believe that Croatia is a legal state and that it is improving and building a legal system that is still slowly but certainly progressing from year to year. And I hope that I will experience a time when everyone in this country will answer and have conjecture for what they have made contrary to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Starting with a man who doesn't get tied up in a car and pays a traffic cop to a minister. I want a state without "holy cows." A very clear, legal state in which everyone is equal to the law in their powers and responsibilities. And it doesn't have to be untouchable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76112	And Branko Hrg, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76113	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. A colleague of Baranovic's, you said that there was a lot of scratching before and that there were various ways of getting support, and probably that's what you've said in one part of your debate over the past two years. It's not something that's important and significant that's changed. I personally agree with most of your debate, and I hope that it will really be like you said that there will be clear knowledge of what and how and where who gets the budget money. But there's one thing that worries me like that, so when some agency or some ministry isn't doing their job because it's supposed to be controlled so far, it's supposed to be published by another ministry. I don't know, if it goes on like this, then basically the Ministry of Finance will take over half the jobs of all the other ministries, and it may not be necessary for others, it won't be necessary. Well, I'm not sure that it's going to be able to follow it all that way, or it's supposed to be controlled by me, but those who have done it before had to do it, had to control it, publish it, follow it, and answer for it if something wasn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76114	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76115	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrg, they say that history is a teacher of life. From what used to be, you need to learn lessons and, based on these references, value what we have today, specifically on the agenda. What I can comment on in your replica is just the following: this solution makes this whole story absolutely transparent and more about the legality of the state support treatment will not only be supervised by individual officials, only by individual political officials, but each citizen will be able to access information and react if something suspicious is possible. It's one of the basic civil duties, after all. The fact is, so far, we've had, with or without intent, perhaps pure oversight, in the good part of the policy of hidden accounts. Whether these accounts were correct or not, it is to assess someone else who is relevant but the fact that the public did not know about many accounts. And in that part, there is a danger of corruption and other negative consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76116	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party of work of counterpart Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76117	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. I believe that this law has made it easy for the Government to transfer part of responsibility from Croatian institutions to European institutions, to the European Commission. But everything is not as pink for the Croatian government as it seems. Today we are talking about support, you know well that the support for employment could be withdrawn especially for the employment of young people from the EU. This time we must also talk about how much we are responsible for just withdrawing money from European funds. If we leave that, as counterpart Baranovic said before, we have agreed to transfer some of the sovereignty of the political to the European Commission, or the EU, because we are members of that community. Then we must use everything that this European community has given us. And then we have to use the support we can get out of the funds. Mr. Mrsic abolishs support for youth employment, and no one has asked who is responsible that we have no money for it? I think Mr. Greek would have to resign because he didn't do anything to get out of the European funds to get the money out. There was talk, we warned, we're not doing well, we're late. They said we're not late, we're not gonna lose any lip, we've lost hundreds, hundreds of millions we don't know how to pull, and we're gonna lose more, and we're gonna see that later, and we're gonna cry for spilled milk. It is good to take care of how money is spent, it is very important because taxpayers' money is spent. It is good for me that the Competition Protection Agency no longer controls it. I've spoken several times about the Agency, I have a very negative opinion on the Agency, the Agency has been the Agency for the Protection of Larges at the Competition. She was protecting the big, biggest, suffocating little ones, and it was and it was seen when the agency lost some of its powers that those of decades didn't know how much more they were running that agency, they left the agency because they were no longer interested because they couldn't do what they were doing so far. Hand to heart, the incentives lacked what was most important and these are criteria, so as much as I know that now some will rise because of this replica, there are no criteria in agriculture, there are already, I've already spoken one motto which, in this House I said a year ago and something and I saw it on one plate in Slavonia with the one if the tractor then Zetor but this one is much better, I fulfilled my whim, I bought the tractor Yondir. That's what we were talking about, about the European ring, which means buying such a tractor, how many peasants it takes, and how many hectares it takes to justify that tractor, and with us it was bought without order, we didn't care. With our support, coalition partners were bought, and that should be said, we had so many riots in these aids that this was good. We didn't know how to handle it ourselves, and now the European Commission is going to give us pucks, and they're going to fix it, not how it suits us, how it suits them. Normally, we'll be cut off in that. It will be all in one place and I am glad that Minister Linic or the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for it because at this point it may be the only ministry that works well. We can be dissatisfied in the opposition to the way they do, and besides, it's their policy, but that the ministry works better than the others, it's safe. It's important when someone gets the money, so I'm talking about one big support, the biggest support in Croatia, that's the support they get from HRT, which is also regulated at the level of Europe, which is supported by all public television in Europe. It's very important how you spend that money, we're volunteering according to the way money is spent. We never control it. It will come from the EU one day and that the EU will begin to settle the situation on HRT for support because money is spent on what money is spent on, we said that I would not move into territories that I am not reminded by the Vice-President of the Parliament means beyond the subject, but it is about support. Often we didn't know what the support was, and we didn't know most often, we supported it, and I believe they gave the best faith support, but we didn't know what the money was spent on, we didn't follow the money flow, we weren't so poor, we weren't so aware that we said we gave support and see what the results came from that support. On support, many have become rich without doing anything to justify these support, and there are those who have been cut off because some who were not allowed to receive support. So on the one hand, we have a wealth of support, and on the other hand we have people who have cried out for the support that in any segment of production they can run something that will be useful for them, for their families, for their collective and ultimately for us as a state. So I agree with Mr Baranovic, there is not much about this unless we talk about the essence of the support itself, what was a lot to say, I think that the law is as acceptable as it is and that what I was saying and I often knew how to replicate it with my colleague Kosor, when we entered the Union 1.7.2013. and when I said nothing will change from this date if we don't change ourselves, and the sad thing is that if we let ourselves change the EU, we will always change when we have to change and not change ourselves. Supports are certainly one of the biggest problems facing the Republic of Croatia and in support we have had the biggest mess, the biggest injustice, the biggest differences and this was not immune agriculture, even in fact. There is money leaking through the fingers so that this law will the Croatian Labourists support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76118	Igor Radjenović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76119	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a very short one, my colleague Vuksic spoke very critically. .../Agrebec Zgrebec: A colleague of Vuksic has a replica. He listens, he does, he hears. Quite critical of this regarding the Competition Protection Agency, which has therefore played a role in recording state support, i.e. to assess whether those are given in accordance with EU rules when we have entered and now, now that role as you know it has crossed over to the European Commission, it will not be as benevolent as you have used, I am afraid as it has been the Agency for the Protection of Competition. You spoke critically, the Competition Protection Agency did not decide on who the support would be but possibly what aid would be illegal, illegal in terms of competition, so I do not see why it was the reason why you accused the Competition Protection Agency of being ineffective, that they were not coming to the right place, that there was insufficient evaluation of their effectiveness, etc. I say, the decision on aid was on other state bodies and the Competition Protection Agency was very often in a thankless role to explain exactly that there should be no support because at some point in time it will come to a charge in terms of these rules that we have in the European Commission. The Republic of Croatia is unfortunately still a country that has too many so-called countries. vertical support, not horizontal, things move towards better, but I say, the reason for this replica is not to remain public, that the Competition Protection Agency has decided something. No, she just recorded them,...stopping illegal, uneconomical and illogical support from going in an even more wrong direction than it did in some of our times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76120	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76121	My dear colleague, I didn't even say that the Competition Protection Agency was deciding who to support, but you said in your last sentence exactly what I was saying, that she was preventing, regulating, she wasn't preventing, she wasn't regulating, I was talking about the Agency that I didn't trust as in the institution that she was doing anything because she was actually an institution of a strong business lobby and whatever else was trusted, I didn't trust that institution, and many didn't and you know that I didn't mention the name that the agency called and that's the head of that agency. And who are the personnel who came to that agency and who are the personnel who are from and where these personnel were going from that agency and how they were connected. We all know that here and we don't need it. Certainly this law doesn't even talk about agricultural support because it regulates, but I talked about the broader context, we talked about the support, we talked about the support of employment, because if I had really gone there, what my colleague Baranovic said, was a minute and a half, and we gave support to this law, but we warned the public that in Croatia for years he had been leaking money on all sides and that it wasn't how money was spent, that many who were supposed to get money or cut off, and those who shouldn't, which I certainly didn't point to an individual, in just one government finger, it was simply guilty, someone asked, before we spoke politics, yes, was guilty politics. If it will be the European Commission's policy that will be guilty or responsible for the incentives, not all of them, of the ones I've been saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76122	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76123	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vuksic, I agree with you part of it, but I disagree with the larger part. So when you talk about support, if the support had been granted without control, I'd say in one part maybe, but I'm asking the question, how and in what way can any economy function at all without any support? We are witnessing that indeed agricultural economies have been built and bought by new machines and capital investments, but at the same time I ask you today, how and how can the agricultural economy function when only a year-and-a-half-day Croatian peasant on the budget of the Republic of Croatia has been taken one and a half billion or better said one billion kunas of incentives? So all those capital investments that were before are questionable today. Why? Because the Croatian peasant today has no support in the sense in which he should have, they are reduced the price of their products to the extent that they can no longer function and today they are forced to close, destroy, give cows to forced slaughter, which is also the case in my Požega-Slavon County and no one has said that the support has been controlled. Yes, but today is also not good when people are in charge, invest, support is no longer available, in the sense that they can function, that they can produce a positive result and that they can make a profit and pay back their liabilities. They are in a stateless state today, and this is a catastrophic state that destroyed Croatian peasants and the country's economy, so the support is good, should be controlled, but if it hadn't been for the previous years, there would have been no such economy and Croatian peasants today, but it's not good today either because it's been destroyed, it's been destroyed and there's no Croatian peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76124	Thank you very much. Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76125	Dear counterpart Lucic, we essentially agree and there is no agriculture in Europe without support. We know that large farms, that very difficult our peasants, our agriculture which is 1% of EU agriculture, can therefore be in a statistical error, that it cannot compete, and in particular cannot compete if there is no support. No one is against the support of the peasants, so they don't get me wrong, it's just against it. After all, the largest received the most support, not the smallest, not the producers, it wasn't controlled that the support was well spent, it wasn't rationally used support, that's what I was talking about. It didn't take one mastery for which even the smallest tractor was too big to buy a tractor. Remember that the banks were offering loans, they were almost giving loans under quotes, later people couldn't pay it off, no one who said, this is rational, this is irrational, we're going to finance this, we're not going to finance this. For the very production of agriculture, if money is spent on production itself, it is certainly not wasted in vain. And we need to think carefully about the support is necessary otherwise we know that every day the landownerships in the countryside are dying, that we have less cattle, that we have at the beginning of the century million and 200 thousand cows, count how many cows we have today, that we were Vienna was importing meat from Croatia at the beginning of the last century, I'm not talking about this century, at the beginning of the last century, that we were some agricultural fact, today we're not. But I was talking about that black side where it's certainly not the individual's fault. It was the system, it was the state's fault that didn't take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76126	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76127	Thank you very much. Col. Vuksic, John Dear, is not a surgeon in most cases because most farmers were doing business plans, and business plans were working based on the incentives and values they had at the time, reducing people's incentives got into trouble. But here we are also witnessing today the abolition of support for employment, and at the same time the importers are encouraged. But what I wanted to replicate most important to you is how money is spent. It is much more important to see the effects of what has been spent. Each serious government and every serious ministry based on strategies sets out incentives on the basis of the objective, and on a given time, it does an analysis of the effects and whether these funds have received certain new values, whether for example they have helped farmers, the development of livestock farming, the development of certain segments in production. If these effects aren't obtained then you're going to go with a reduction of incentives. But we see in most ministries that this analysis is not done, that there is no analysis of whether the current incentives and support have been effective or not. So that's the most important question, the effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76128	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76129	Dear colleague Bubalo, I was just talking about it, the effects. We didn't control when we gave someone else then we had to control them eating that money well spent, which are the effects of what was produced, how much was produced. However, when you mentioned that John Dear is not a whim, I was in Slavonia on several occasions, talking to people, you live in Slavonia, so I'm talking to you because I'm from Zagreb and people don't think I've ever been and grown up in the country, so I know what I'm talking about. Maybe not as much as you do, is you face it every day. Many bought and equipped their farms without having an economic justification for it, but they needed to be warned about it. The Croatian state even prescribed higher standards on farms than standards in Europe. We did everything to make as much as possible of the unimportant waste, not of the production itself. And that's the problem. That's why I'm saying that blames the villagers, it's the fault of a country that didn't set the standards for us, a country that didn't control where that money was being spent and that they agree I'm completely repeating the effects of the invested. And the effects of the invested aren't good, we can see that. And we were dissatisfied at the time when the most supportive was given. And secondly, the hand to heart you know that the support was given in a way that the biggest ones, the ones that shouldn't have, had they been given farms that were huge, that a variety of agrocors were given by strange criteria from country to money and that we were in a country with the least order. Well, now order needs to be established, but the biggest problem is that it's evaporated when it's there. Now we're almost out of shit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76130	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76131	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said you were dissatisfied with the work of the Competition Agency. Well, I don't know if anything's gonna change here, since the amendments to the law say that all employees with all their agency rights will go to the Ministry of Finance. So the same people will basically do the same job only elsewhere. But you were talking about agricultural aid in agriculture, and the villagers would probably be happy to see the Ministry of Finance taking over the paying agency in agriculture, so that they could finally find out what they're getting the incentives for because there were problems, there were gaps, but there were legal regulations that required it to be controlled. Why didn't someone control it, it's a matter of system. Then the peasants knew what they were being supported for, for which they were being encouraged. Today, not only should we no longer have to control as much as all together is reduced in principle and almost no longer need to be controlled, let's just say that the EU is about 38% of its budget for rural space and food production, and the Croatian state is 3%, and then you can imagine what we can do to control something very much. But the villagers would certainly want the ministry to take over the agency so they know what time of support, how much support they needed and how much they didn't get. Today, the villagers have no idea what they're getting the money for, how many years they're supposed to get it. So maybe after this debate, maybe the Ministry of Finance decides to take over that agency that definitely doesn't do its job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76132	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76133	I agree with my colleague Hrg, for 2012, it is not yet known how much and to whom it has been paid for 2012, which means total mess. I agree with you and before there were regulations, regulations, laws, so we often speak in the Parliament. We have good laws, and bad ones are better than lawlessness, but we don't apply laws, we skip laws. How responsible is the state if you don't know how much to whom it's paid. Some are not even paid 30%, some are 100% paid. By what criteria? Who decided to give a 100% incentive without even 30 percent. To cut someone off. What I said earlier was that we were forced to have someone else decide for us and I see that it has relieved many of what someone else is going to decide and what someone else is going to make some cuts, perhaps inappropriate, perhaps unfair because the situation in Croatia is the best we know. But when we didn't know how to master it, then maybe the solution is to be mastered by someone else. Well, then that saying before we went to Belgrade, now we're going to Brussels, standing. I think we should not experience Brussels as we have experienced Belgrade.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I noticed these same allegations both regarding the criteria and perhaps those of some of the shops where you were talking about agriculture. But then I told myself right away you see how this colleague Vuksic does it masterly, first it provokes it, and then in some ways he retreats, says you see good support in agriculture, good support in agriculture, and they need it, and they are. See, that's the maneuver you're skillfully doing. And I want to tell you that in the area I often talk about, it was very clear criteria and that not our milkers, cattlemen used it and spent it on what whims and supplies some of these machines that we can't advertise, of course. They've been spending a lot of time trying to raise production. They increased production, it says, now production has fallen, unfortunately it has fallen and they've all used it properly. Of course, they experienced one blow that they could not recover from, not an area that could be easily cured overnight. But here I would clearly, publicly ask the question of what is the criterion when any moment comes, crisis, rebalancing, or so on, let's cut these peasants again, farmers. That's right, colleague Hrg. You have nothing more to control. That's what's happening. What's the criterion when they say modulation works so now these big ones up the rest and these tiny little ones cut. There's a problem, too. Of course control is necessary, of course you should have had it under control if there were any abuses that someone was something, if you know you should report it. Of course it should, because they make those who, of course, are industrious, who work modelly and torture themselves because livestock, dairy production requires daily engagement from morning to dinner, neither yearly nor sun nor moon as they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76135	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76136	What you fellow Milinkovic said to neither the sun nor the moon is one Serbian song that you do not quote here, there is one reference to it. You said that if I did it masterly, I'd be confused first, etc. So I back down, I didn't back down. You see, I was able to keep your attention, and that's exactly what I was going to do. Remember that we often talked about milking, that we talked about beefing here in the Parliament and that we even asked for a session to be interrupted because the villagers protested for a reason, so neither the Prime Minister nor the minister would accept them. It's about that, you admit it yourself, there were no criteria, now there are no criteria, the support is necessary. Well, just before I said, there's no agriculture in Europe without support. But we need to know what we're providing support for, what cultures we're providing support for. Of course, we do not have strategies in agriculture, although they assured us that we have strategies in agriculture. If we had a strategy in agriculture, it wouldn't happen that every day a household dies by house, that we have less and less stock, that we have less and less milk, that we import, we support an import lobby. We support it, why? Well, because it's pink under the table a lot bigger because it's 10.15%. Whether it gets someone from the top of the government or the bureaucracy is so well distributed so bureaucracy gets, we destroy both peasants and everything in the economy. But now that I'm talking about support. So isn't it one of the most disastrous decisions to abolish support for youth employment, everything will go out, who will remain? Only Minister Mrsic. Let's give him one too. And the Greeks and the Mrsics, let them go out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76137	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, colleague Vuksic, why don't we continue that one of ours, you mentioned last year's debate whether something will change after July 1st. I think you've actually proven by your discussion that with something changing and changing for the better, that's proof of this law. But also the fact that it seemed to anyone that we entered the system of fiscal scissors will force us to do what we obviously weren't able to do or didn't have enough courage, which is to spend as much as we earn, or to strive not to spend more. I therefore think it has proved to be good that we have become a member of the European Union. If I can Berlin, Paris, Stockholm, Prague, Ljubljana can go for an opinion in Brisa, as you mentioned, then of course Zagreb can. It is, and the latest criticisms that, for example, came from the European Union to the judiciary, that is, the efficiency of the Croatian judiciary, I think it is good that we will have to re-imagine ourselves and rediscover what we are going to do and how, whether the judges will do more, I think it would do the same, even if the judiciary is completely independent, so every criticism from these lines is double and triple-measured and looking but I think that, yes, and we need to talk about it openly. And as you mentioned the support system in agriculture he was significant, it wasn't buying partners, it was a government programme, every government that invested in it. But what I agree with was a kind of absurdity. So we had huge resources invested in incentives, we had satisfied peasants, farmers, dissatisfied citizens, there was food imports. So we were wrong about something.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76139	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76140	Dear colleagues Kosor, I would not agree with you that both Paris and London and let's say Angela Merkel is going to Brussels, they are going to dictate an opinion in Brussels, but they are not going by opinion, and we are going by opinion, what all these great powers have dictated. We were looking forward to entering the European Union with the right to be equal. We said we're going to the European Union to discuss and decide equally at that table. But what's happening now and what we're discussing here, we've got a tutor. We need a tutor who's gonna tell us something all the time, so be careful how you behave, this isn't good, this isn't good for you, now we're going to give you something, so sit in the corner, you're guilty of that, too. Yeah, we need that because we don't know how to manage ourselves, we don't actually know this government, I'm talking about this government right now, I'm not talking about the former governments because the former governments are not running the country now, they're running this government. So, if we do not know for ourselves, then we need someone to help us, and that helped us put ourselves in order, but if every time we ask for our every mistake to get hit on the fingers, then we will not change, then July 1st doesn't mean anything, I was saying in that context that we need ourselves to change ourselves, not because of what someone says or we're decent or we're not decent, and we're competent for others. No, we have to because of ourselves because we feel so comfortable. So we must respect our own laws in order to be a legal state and to make the citizens of the Republic of Croatia feel good, but we should all, not just here, and after that we see that even the parties do not follow what they have prescribed for themselves and says when the parties do not know how to comply with the deadlines for financial reports that the Treasury will be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76141	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76142	Thank you very much. Col. Vuksic, the impression is that you pointed out more in your discussion of a negative phenomenon in the support system, but it should not be ignored that the support system has done these years and many good despite the fact that there was both negativity and illegality, but without support there is no domestic production, without support there is no Croatian village at all. But to eradicate negatively, there is no systematic planning, no strategic commitment to support, there is no. That's right. You said the measures to encourage youth employment were lifted. Of course, because those in charge of withdrawing money from European funds are doing nothing, they're just working on mildness, but the effect is flat zero. The European funds do not withdraw money, but are being extracted from Croatia and being laundered again in Croatia, this is the biggest social problem. You were also talking about AZTN and very negative about that agency. I'd just like to supplement you, AZTN in my opinion is an international conspiracy state institution and it won't take long and many years to pass, the action of AZTN will become a matter unfortunately of national security. I just hope it's not too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76143	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76144	Dear counterpart Maric, we agree on this, once again, there is no support, no agriculture, no European agriculture, much larger farms without support, but they control these support. I agree with you, but you must know that the capital is anal, and when I said that they were only protecting the largest, they were protecting those who had the biggest money, the most capital, of course they were protecting the capital, and the capital was analytical and then the agency, I agree with you completely, analytically because it did not protect the Croatian market, it did not protect the interests because they were meant to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. What you've been saying about withdrawing money from the EU funds, that's what you've been saying for two years. You won't pull back, you're not doing well, but what's the problem, in the software. Look out, they say the software's not working. Look, it's like saying a car doesn't work, and you didn't put gas in it. He says they're going to fill that software, so who's going to do the software, so people are doing it, who's keeping it. Watch out, and even the minister with it is justified, and now people say it's really not his fault, so the software doesn't work. Look, we're depending on the software if we pull out, so what if the power went out for two days, they'd say everything fell into the water, five years we couldn't get to ourselves. I mean, they're inconclusive, even when we're even taking it and it didn't turn the light red when they were talking that way. And now watch out, we make one too big sin, we simply deny employment, we do everything to cut the branch on which we sit. Young, educated people won't get an incentive to hire, no more incentives, and where they'll go, out. They're gonna go out, and we're just gonna have party apparatus, they're gonna save us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76145	On behalf of the Independent List Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76146	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, Your Honor, Mr. MPs. Yes, this is about the first and second reading, we can talk about the principle in general. And what do you say about this law? The law as a law, the law is more or less acceptable, all of which will raise their hands and it is understandable, we need to know about any lip that will end up with any user. And clearly, what Mr Vuksic said, when these support was granted was also abuse, it will not be disputed. For example. How many Croatian generals got the land and watch out, it was hundreds of hectares, it took support, and then it further shared the country in a sublet. It's as clear as anyone here said, that the coalition's "potential" of public money was also being bought with support. This is what is usually done in the Republic of Croatia and therefore, among other things, Croatia suffers enormous damage. The truth is also likely that Croatia will be the only country in Europe or that enters Europe that will give more money in the first years for that EU ticket than we will withdraw money from Europe. Finally what do you say? The priorities for which this European money will be spent determines Brussels, not the Croatian government. And I personally think it's a huge shame. When we talk about the support itself, we need to go first from its definition. What are state support? These are all real, potential expenditures or reduced revenues from the State allocated by the State support providers. This could be a state, local self-government clearly disrupting or potentially disrupting market competition by favouring a public support user in the market. Clearly, when we talk about state aid, there are always exceptions. For example, to mitigate or remove damages from natural disasters, to encourage the development of an area with an unusually low standard of living or high unemployment, later on, the promotion of culture and the protection of heritage, the implementation of significant international projects, etc. etc. What is also important to mention which is what I would say is how these support is granted. We have two basic areas. These are the means of supporting agriculture and fisheries and supporting industry and services. Support to industry and services is shared, in view of the objective, i.e. the category of support to horizontal and sectoral sectors, i.e. support to specific sectors, and then to regional support at local self-government level. I'm not going to talk much about these horizontal support now. These are research, development, environmental protection, support for small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, for rehabilitation, restructuring through state support programmes, employment, what all of you are more or less witnesses to what is happening during these last few days. Culture, protective bases, etc. And sectoral support would mean those for land transport, maritime transport, air transport, shipbuilding, steel production, tourism, financial services, rehabilitation and restructuring of certain enterprises, etc. etc. Now we're talking about the support itself. I think it's good to mention something else. In the Republic of Croatia in 2012 it was allocated because the 2013 report is not yet available. 8 billion 798 million kuna aid was granted, and the share of these aid in the gross social product was around 2.7%. In Europe, the share of these support in their gross social products is about 1%, below 1%, to be precise. The share of State expenditure support in 2012 is 7.4%. It's under 1% in Europe. ... Under 1%, we have 20 and so many countries. [[You can't hear it.]] One situation in Germany may be 0.9% or Slovenia, and another 0.5. I don't have a plate here or I'd tell you exactly how much it's in some countries. The share of support in the expenditures of the state is 7.4%. Support per employee amounted to 6306 kuna, while support per capita of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 2046 kuna. And by that we see what effort is simply done. The support to industry and services in 2012 amounts to 5 billion 255 million kuna, which accounts for 59.7% of total aid allocated and 1.6% of GDP, while support for agriculture and fisheries is generally small, we rarely mention this fisheries in Parliament 3.5 billion kuna and 40.3% of the total aid allocated, which is approximately 1.1% of gross social product. In 2012, within sectoral support, the highest traffic of €595 million was under way, then for public broadcasting services of €195 million, the shipbuilding sector of €499 million, support for the rehabilitation and restructuring of companies of €308 million and the tourism sector of €71 million. In the structure, it means horizontal support in that narrow sense in 2012, the most support was granted to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs 703 million kuna, for the employment of 121 million kuna, for research and development 104 million kuna, for the improvement of 45 million kuna, for energy savings, etc. etc. The otherwise allocated support of 8 billion kuna per map of statistical regions in the Republic of Croatia according to that NUC methodology looks about like this: the central and eastern or what we call the Pannonian Croatian was allocated 979 million kuna. So 740 million sectoral and 238 million kuna horizontal. The Adriatic Croatia 2 billion 350 million kuna, meaning the counties from Istria to Dubrovnik-Neretljanska and North-West Croatia a billion 925 million kuna. What must be enormous is that the budget rebalance was cut, which cut the funds for an active employment policy by 177 million kuna. 511.5 million kuna is scheduled, and the Croatian Employment Service will have 334.3 million kuna at its disposal. The fact is that the active employment policy measures are currently covering 30 697 people, and with those 1600 kuna, it is training for work somewhere in 19, so we have 6000 and so much benefits of support for employment and self-employment, 4932 for self-employment, 2981 persons are covered by public works, 742 support are for preserving 360 jobs for the education programme, etc. I'm afraid we're going to have another budget rebalance this year and it would be a disaster if once again this kind of support for self-employment, or employment, would be affected. I said 2012 employee support is 6306 kuna. Regardless of everything about the economic picture of the Republic of Croatia at this point, we should not even talk because we all know that it is difficult. I do not want to use the word dramatic, but it is freely said that the growth of gross products in 2014 will not be and God forbid something changes in 2015. When we speak of support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In 2012, they were allocated to the amount of 703 million kuna. This is an increase of 116 million kuna compared to or 378 million kuna compared to 2011 when it amounted to 324 million kuna and an increase of 532 million kuna compared to 2010 when it amounted to 170.9 million kuna. The support for culture may be another occasion, although it is certain, what is important for me to mention, and next, the support at the level of local self-government in 2012 was 239 million kuna. Otherwise, it should be mentioned that the 2012 RH budget was 118 billion kuna, and all the budgets of the local community or the community were 22 billion kuna. Supports are granted by words and local self-government, and I agree that the system needs to be rationalised, deetatized, decentralisationd, Croatia is circled by the principle of historical regions that know the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia because this is no longer going on. However, as many as 30 million kunas were allocated to the Croatian football club Hajduk, Š.d. But good. What is safe for those of us who come from the Adriatic, who have developed shipbuilding, are the most important sectoral support that amounts to 2010. 4 billion and 100 million kuna, 2012. 3.7 billion kuna. And why? First of all, since shipbuilding was significantly less represented in 2012 than it was in earlier years. 2010 with a billion 246 million kuna, 2011 with 724 million kuna, 2012 with 499 million kuna. But it should also be acknowledged that the state simply took over the guarantees in its portfolio that it must deal with in the way it either succeeds or fails, about it at some other time. And finally, it is clear that concessions should be mentioned. What was he talking about in one replica, Mr. Shucker? All you have to say is that for the Macelj-Zagreb highway and the Istrian Ipsion state in 10 years the concessionaries, so those who got the concession, paid a concession fee of about 3 billion kuna. In 10 years only for the Istrian ipilon over 2 billion kuna cash plus they were freed of VAT on the tunnel or on the toll on that bridge, using built tunnel etc. And on this occasion when he's already reminded of the problem of concessions Mr. Shucker please BINA Istra take the building of the ypsilon to have some 500 or no more builders return to work because the situation in that branch dares me to say simply dramatic. The state issues or singles out huge means of support. I said it is certainly much more than other European countries do if we compare it to their GDP but it is also also that probably abuse of support anywhere in Europe has not been as it has been in these areas. All in all, the law as a law is just as correct and I don't think there's any reason not to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76147	A colleague, Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76148	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, a law that is actually very interesting, so we can say in a certain way and fatefully for the Croatian future. Why? So if we look at what support is, how they are given, and how much they amount to annually, then we will see that it is not at all negligible for an economy like Croatia which is practically on its knees. Here it is only said segmentally that the support is given by the state, the support is provided by the units of local self-government and we will also receive support through the European Funds. However, what needs to be said is why it serves support, and for the simple reason that the state support policy simply wants to help them, it wants to encourage them to be competitive, and if we look at it that way, then the amendment of this Support Act needs to be looked at a little differently and asked whether this kind of structure at this level in the Ministry of Finance will satisfy what we want. Because if this remains only one part of the department or the Department of Economy of the Ministry of Finance, then unfortunately, it is immediately doomed. Why? So for the simple reason that a man who will be at the head of this must have authority and must have the power to ask for data from those who have to supply it to him because if all of this is done together, all of this that is finely written in the law will simply be a dead letter on paper, and that is the best example for you when you start doing a concession register for how many years and pray for those who have issued concessions in the Republic of Croatia to deliver this data. But when we talk about whether something was known or not, with the 2008 budget, there was one booklet, a booklet in which it is one in which to say in a mere language that everyone and who does business and who doesn't deal with finances tried to explain in fact what the state budget is, both on the income and so on the expenditure side. Now those who speak so critically today about the fact that nothing was known, nothing was seen, were not making fun of that book in a certain way. This God, that several thousand such books are distributed in Croatia today, then the citizens would also see why certain moves and among other things, this circus, so to speak, because those who should receive these money are not circuses, a reduction of employment funds and an explanation that these funds will be replaced by the redistribution of certain other funds in the Ministry of Labour. But we stick to incentives, so what can be financed from, what are all the incentives in the Republic of Croatia? So the only thing we see on the spending side is that it doesn't go at about six billion kuna. However, there is something that is not seen on the spending side, which is the incentives of the local self-government units, that is tax exemptions, because look if you give someone tax exemption, you have reduced the revenue side of the budget in such a way, or if you give someone a share in some tax, which is what might be the problem tomorrow in Croatia, and that is these kuna and 20 in the price of fuel that is being redistributed to Croatian railways by new, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, because there are some 2 billion and 800 million kuna. And the third is what you like to say so often in the closet, these are guarantees. Any guarantee you give to a company is the support because without that guarantee, many of them could not be in debt at all and many of them had not received a state guarantee as a guarantee that the loan returned would have paid far greater interest and now it is the guarantee that is so easy to count and put into the 2011 budget is shown as some kind of major deficit. Why am I saying all this? So that's why my colleagues and colleagues wanted me to or didn't want to admit it under the greatest influence of politics. Politics simply with certain incentives and support wants to help in a particular area, wants to help a particular part of the Republic of Croatia and thus improve the economic situation, raise certain economic branches and ultimately end up picking up political points because that is ultimately the point of the story. However, these support is just as the time goes when they are derived from the context of time and space for political accounts and if we look at these support in such a way and if we treat them in such a way, then we have a situation in the economy of the Republic of Croatia as we do today. And why am I saying that? So when we take only the last 12, 13 years of shipbuilding, you get through guarantees that were later charged from the state budget to put it that way, pushed, helped, whatever you want somewhere around 26, 27 billion kuna. When you look through the support given to the Croatian Railways or through funds from the budget or through guarantees for loans which are later paid by the state and there for the past 12, 13 years have spent 20 and some billions of kuna. Let us add to this support in agriculture, support that goes through HABOR because everything we give as basic capital and what we give to HABOR funds to co-finance certain projects under the rest of the ministries is all support and that is a few dozen and more billion kunas, and when we add it all together for the past 12 or 13 years, so for the two mandates of the HDZ Government and one and a half mandate of this Kukuriku coalition and that coalition since 2000-2003, which is very similar through support is practically directed directly as the expenditure side of the state budget over 75 billion kuna. How much support went through local self-government units, the other day we were discussing economic areas and the land that the state gave to local self-government units and units of local self-government formed economic zones and by some criteria, and the zones were giving to the owners, and this was in a way that the units of local self-government were competing to attract investors even though the units of local self-government equipment had infrastructure and all and came to this particular entrepreneur and could be viewed in a certain way by support. So there are a number of ways to give support and how they should serve the economy, but let's leave now at a time when this law will apply, which is the EU. We have an example of the Republic of Slovenia where they had to return more than 150m euros for this and for that reason to the EU budget because they did not stick to the model and the way in which the rules are in Brussels. And it's actually the real power of this law and something simply in this law makes all the factors very serious in the future. On the one hand, the domestic budget users, I mean, first of all, the resolution ministries and some agencies, make the programmes withdraw as much as possible from the EU and thus release the expenditure force of the state budget, then the share of Croatia in the support and total expenditures and GDP will be reduced. So let's not say that Croatia has a share of support 2 and so much, and the EU only 1% and then just stand there. Yes, but how much of those funds for this support that we are currently paying out of the state budget to withdraw from the EU? And that is why it is very important to set clear rules of the game, control the implementation of these rules and eventually educate people who should withdraw those funds with double benefits. On the one hand, we will be effective in withdrawing what belongs to us from the EU, on the other hand we will reduce the expenditure side of the state budget and that is, in addition to structural reforms that must be implemented with the removal of administrative barriers to the development of the economy, the most important component for the reduction of expenditure, and I find it truly strange that the current government does not speak of it in such a way but of the EU talking about something that is a burden. Yes, we have to pay our share in the EU, but if we had an argument on the other hand that they had submitted so many programmes, that so much funding would be withdrawn and that the expenditure side of the state budget was reduced from that, then they would certainly not speak in such a way. And that's why it's very important, and I propose to the proposer, although I don't think this is the happiest solution to build a budget to create fiscal policy, where there's a fiscal responsibility law, where there's budgetary surveillance, where there's some kind of internal control, installing another body that should be controlled all together, but if they've already decided to put this service at the level of administration or otherwise simply be singled out and that the leader has a certain power to control it. Look, multiple times because of political pressure, because of the policy's desire to give some money into certain economic processes and to encourage something, more than once unfortunately, it is not ideal with the rules that we have adopted when we have finished negotiations, when we have adopted EU directives. And maybe that looks effective at that point, we said that we would finance EU funds, but what happens to us tomorrow when those funds have to go back? And then we're in trouble, then the one who got those assets that he needed to be like some kind of inert, like some kind of impulse to develop, by returning those funds in principle, we're destroying it. And that's why this control instrumentation and stricter control and stricter records about the approval of support are so important. Perhaps it once sheds some negative political points and perhaps all of the irregularities that have happened in previous years are perhaps our best teacher that we simply have to change in assessing certain things. And I wouldn't agree with this story about AZTN. AZTN has played its role far more positive than negative, and I can personally say that once AZTN has not pulled a brake on one side and in these past two years, also before politics might push into some support that simply does not belong in support. And so, colleagues and colleagues, because of all this, because of the importance of support, because of their total amount, if we add up units of local self-government, if we add up everything that we've been building through tax policy because look, we've talked about HRT, no one has mentioned that through the provisions of the Law on Value Added Tax we're giving HRT about 300 and some other million support, do you know how? We have refined there that the programme and those costs relating to the part financed by those billions and 300 million that are collected from the subscription are not subject to taxation, which is not paid by VAT, even if the expenditure part financed from that part is not entitled to refuse a pre-tax, so there is some effect, say, about 200 million kuna. No one knows this support alive, and even if you ask people on HRT, they don't know anything about it. So there's a number of these things, even though my colleague Cain was talking about concessions. Well, probably one Istria would never have started to work if the HDZ government hadn't signed such a contract that practically everything they do and charge, it charges VAT, but as a consequence, let me say, we have a positive today in Istria made practically complete road infrastructure. So why am I saying that sometimes the political decisions that are controlled and which control processes and which should not be drawn from the context of time and space and the environment in which they happened are good because the easiest thing to look at is when you pull something out of the context of time and space and then you just show it and you tie it all up to politics, it's automatically served that it's something bad, something desperate. And in the end, it's not the subject of this law, and it should be made clear that when we talk about support, the support in agriculture is beyond this whole story. We can talk anyway, it's not like this, but the question is what would be the Croatian village if it wasn't for those support. See what the Croatian village looks like in the last year and a half. Look at the statistical indicators that are growing the most? Export of beef. And you know why? Because 30 thousand male cows were slaughtered. Remember, let's not forget our history, colleagues and colleagues with whom we struggled after our release and after peaceful reintegration came to this cattle fund that we had, now several thousand farms have been closed and 30,000 milk cows have been slaughtered. And colleagues and colleagues, it only best tells you what would have happened to the Croatian village and Croatian agriculture if these support had not been so. However, for some control processes, time needs to be matured, and they happen to say step by step, it is impossible to make them all of a sudden. And I sincerely hope that the government through this instrumentation will precisely do what is very important, and that is to control these support that these support really ends up where they need to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76149	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76150	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You were talking about a guy named Shuker. covert support such as guarantees and other support not recorded in the State aid system. But I would take a step further, and I would mention the unauthorized support that is on the scene these days, and it concerns the write-off of the tax debt to the pre-departure debtor mainly when the state forgives the believer of a pre-departure debtor at greater amounts than the other creditors. The consequences of such a law could be fatal under the pre-determined debtor if his believer or competitor on the market for such unlawful support brought an action against the pre-departure debtor. As a result of such illicit market support, its competitiveness and its position on the market have been undermined. However, the consequences for such creditors who have paid the state budget clearly that they will not be able to remove but a minimum of correctness would be if the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Croatia to those creditors who paid taxes on the service or on the goods sold to such pre-departure debtors if the State had forgiven them and returned the tax which they paid on the outstanding claim. I think that, at least in this way, a certain balance would be achieved to a lesser extent, and it would also say equality and allow for a fairer position of all those orderly payers in the Republic of Croatia who did not come into a position in order to be forgiven through the project or through the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlements by huge, huge debts to the state budget. Therefore, I think that there is certainly in that section and such a write-off represents unauthorised support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76151	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bačić, I deliberately mentioned the guarantee as one of the essential support that is going on in the Croatian economy for the simple reason that without this guarantee many state-owned companies would already have the key in the lock and would not work and would not work. However, what you mentioned about the pre-debt settlement on the tax write-offs, we talked about when the Pre-department Bill was also in the first reading of the treatment of that tax write-off. Why? So because the definition of support also says that there are supports that are the subject of the spending parties both the state budget and the budget of the unit of local self-government, and also all tax exemptions. This is not tax exemption but it's practically tax write-off, but it's the same as if at a given moment you've freed him from that tax more than that tax involved and at this point there's a far bigger amount on the market tomorrow that if he invested money in machines or something else and didn't invest in private property, and that's why we've introduced the OIB to see who invested the money in private property and who invested the money in the business. And no one can say if someone got from the state in any way money, and he didn't invest it in production, but he invested private property then there's no basis for not taking that property away from him and it's unincome... the state budget, and he's left with a minimum living space. Because no one gives anyone the right to use the money they got for something for private consumption because this tax write-off on a predicate settlement no matter how much that predicate settlement in its own name is generally treated as support for the fallen economies. So by its definition, it's a support, so we can't look at it any different. That someone gave an interpretation that it was like that and so it's another couple.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76153	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76154	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you spoke of aids that are extremely important for every production for every legal person. But at the same time, we are witnessing that the rebalancing of the latest of the current SDP coalition government is just telling us that regardless of the difficult situation in the economy, above all I think that agriculture in the rebalancing itself is reduced to 409 million kuna. So I ask you at the same time how do you think it is possible to maintain such production if we have reduced to direct payments to farmers 29 million kuna, if we have reduced to direct payments in agriculture 19 million kuna, if in capital investments we have reduced 39 million kuna, rural development of cca 40 million, wood industry 79 million kuna, and especially when we talk about the wood industry which has indeed shown the greatest growth in this difficult situation of the global and economic crisis, which records exports almost $15 billion, and that it is little understanding that this sector is supported by the aids that have been abolished, I am sure that in a short time period we can employ a very large number of people who today have 385 or 387 thousand in the Employment Office. So these are certainly measures that are unpopular, especially when we have brought the Croatian peasants into an unembarkable situation because his economy has failed, his economy no longer exists, cows of milk have been slaughtered and, at the same time, the Ministry of Agriculture is now giving incentives for the hero. So we ask the question of who they encourage if there's an existing peasant who's been dealing with these measures of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76155	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Lucic, although support in agriculture is not the subject of this law, it is obvious that they are so life-threatening and that no MP can simply pass them by. However, these 400 million cuts in the agricultural budget would not be so tragic that we prepared these farmers and that the agency at the Ministry of Agriculture helped these farmers withdraw funds from the European budget. And that not only so much but more resources come to Croatia from Brussels. Then it wouldn't be so tragic. However, the overall economic part, to put it this way, of the Republic of Croatia's rebalance has been reduced by a billion and 300 million. The biggest problem is that what should have left out the expenditure side of the budget, and I think it should be repeated over and over again, which is that certain expenditures are being financed from EU funds in such a way, reducing the expenditure side of the state budget, so the domestic component has been reduced by 25%. But when you see that the funds for incentives and employment in a state that has 380 thousand unemployed are reduced by 177 million kuna, then maybe it's the biggest tragedy. Because if you cut the funds to hire those on the stock market, then cut the funds to those who should hire them from the stock market, then you clearly send the policy in which direction you're going. But the biggest problem of all is that you think someone before you did everything wrong, did nothing, so you went into some kind of philosophy of fiction, didn't prepare enough to withdraw funds from EU funds and thus reduce the expenditure side of the state budget. This is the biggest tragedy, which unfortunately no one in this country wants to write or speak about, and these are unfortunately facts that will cost Croatia a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76157	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76158	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, I agree with you that support in agriculture is not the subject of this law, but here's my hearing aid is somehow the most sensitized in that area, so here's what I'm going to say about that part. But in the part where you talked about competitiveness, the support is meant to therefore boost competitiveness, and even in the government's programme itself, not only, but in agriculture not only competitiveness, but in the government's programme, this government says agriculture is a strategic branch. It is necessary to produce sufficient quality food to feed its own population, produce raw materials for the food industry, produce for export and contribute to the sustainable development of rural space. These are the basic objectives, of course, and competitiveness, and in that part, the results that we talked about and the increase in the production of milk, meat and, of course, we are now witnessing. Because it's simply such a shock, such a drastic cutting and support, of course, it's also necessary to regulate the market and so it's all simply insurmountable. I testify every day, that's why I'm talking about it. So you know what's the biggest thing for a peasant? When he has to there's his cow we talked about, he has to give it to the forced slaughter. It is invaluable for him, and it is simply not possible to restore it if something happens, so to restore it overnight. It takes that cycle five, six years to rebuild and put it on some kind of foot. So now it's hard in this situation. And as far as local self-government units are concerned, I'm sure, I agree that we should encourage, many and many of our own to say business zones have made and improved in some way the quality of life. But I'm testifying in our midst right now with this new amendment to the law, the Reward Regulation, that it simply intersects in those environments where I come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76159	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76160	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinkovic, you have often called a mockery in this assembly when you warned of what is unfortunately happening today. Now those who laughed at you should start crying. Because you've seen, because you live with these people what's going to happen with this kind of support policy in agriculture. So those who would laugh should now start crying. The posters for those 30,000 muzzle cows and posters for the 2,3,000 closed farms that, let's just say, are funded from the state budget. Most of these farms are co-financed through capital support from the state budget. Most of these male cows were obtained with the incentive from the state budget. So the state has done itself harm. Is through, if she had calculated all the incentives she had given for what she'd probably destroyed through some kind of milk incentive, she'd have left those 30,000 masculine cows, those several thousand farms, and the total result of what was given and what was given through this incentive and through what was lost would have been positive. And as far as local self-government units are concerned, talking about economic development, talking about support and not taking the symbiosis of local self-government units and the state is simply ridiculous and stupid. And everyone here gives their aliquot. Because if the state will not, above all, help units from areas of special state concern that are less developed, if the state will never help them in economic development, come to the level of those who are more developed. And then, unfortunately, we'll get to the point that in four or five big cities, we'll have 90% of our population. And then we can talk about both ecology and irrigation, and I don't know what everything and support for this is going to happen, and then we're not going to give it to anyone else, we're going to have support in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76161	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76162	Dear counterpart Shuker, quite certain that this government has been forced to do some restrictions, but the issue of good policy is what needs to be cut, what should be denied. It is absolutely certain that these redundancies that are at work encourage the decline in production and encourage the growth of the unemployed. When support for youth employment is abolished, part of the support for employment amounted to 510 million kuna in 2013, where it is taken where it should not be taken, then the destabilization of what is certainly that the Government does not want to destabilise, but these are the wrong estimates, the wrong policy entirely. Because you can't cut what's most vital to you, you can't base your growth on anything to people of late age, unschooled, just on young people, on those you've invested most money on, so invest money for study, invest money for specialization, and later you say now you go outside, we've trained you, we've given you a lot of money in you, and now you put it somewhere else, take it elsewhere. And it's completely wrong. The question of support is whether we are focused on production or whether we are focused on imports and on the suppression of production, and that is all it is about. They say there is no money, so support for youth employment will freeze, abolish, partially, completely. He's got money, except he wasn't on the right side, he's on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76163	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76164	Yes, colleague Vuksic, that's why there are in this law and otherwise in all laws when it comes to support, so-called. support policy, because when you provide support, you need to know what you want to do with it. Unfortunately, however, the finance ministry has failed in budget users all these years, not only the last two but before. That's why I was talking about the importance of the organizational form of this. So, the Ministry of Finance when you look at the reasons of the budget and all the expensive and budget law and always insisted on seeing what this cost has achieved because if you have a place of cost and if you have a program why this cost has been spent, if you have an assessment of the fiscal impact for each law, then the logical thing is, and if you have the Fiscal Responsibility Act, that you want to get that data. Well, I guess through this support policy, we'll get there. However, look, colleague Vuksic, would that, I think Brussels would accept this argument that these billions of kunas have been left to the economy and that we will be said to achieve this through these support, that and that, that will lead us to, say, 10 or 15 thousand less unemployed at the end of 2014, and that will lead us to our economic growth, regardless of whether it will be minus or plus, due to these measures being 0.1 or 0.2 in a positive sense. The impact will also have an even stronger fiscal dimension on the revenue side or on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget. I'm sure the people in Brussels would accept that. Why, because a billion kuna is 0.3% plus or minus, that's almost irrelevant throughout the story. But what a message. We argue in the Parliament the other day, convince each other that it's not right, that it's not fair to cut that addition to loyalty. Now there's a regulation being passed, there's a law being passed where again... in one way or another, but it's very interesting that these wages are being raised past the parliamentary debate and that's what's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76165	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, at the end of your presentation you said, you expressed both your desire and your belief that the government would surely control the support to get those who needed it, so they listened and bid here during the morning with certain municipalities, cities and counties which I don't think is good. I agree with you that support should be given to those who deserve it. But three things are very important to me here that I want to share with you and with respected colleagues. The first is whether in Croatia support recipients are ready for this legal transformation, whether they have implemented restructuring that when they receive funding from the state budget and funds from European funds to use them to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which is ultimately the goal and should be the objective of providing support. I see that you have now and in your replica answered colleague Vuksic about the state budget and his income side. Remember the budget rebalance from last week so you will see where we actually downloaded into budget rebalancing, it was also for small and medium-sized enterprises, for entrepreneurship, for making these projects etc., etc., as well as the abolition of these employment support. And third thing, I don't know if Mr. Lalovec talked about it, about the assessment of the situation needed to draft this law. The first paragraph says that no funds are needed, the second is said to provide funding in the state budget for the construction of an IT system for registers of 600 000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76167	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76168	Thank you very much. A colleague of Babić, so you touched one very important thing because it was just us from the HDZ Club, but we only talked a lot when the AZTN reports were, which is why the support funds were used and why pre-accession funds were used, and then we said that these funds were to be used in that phase of negotiations and preparations for Croatia's entry into the European Union to restructure the Croatian economy, both in private and in public. Now that we look at the withdrawal of funds and we look at this budget cut, then unfortunately, it didn't go that way. Neither this economy is so restructured, nor have they trained to withdraw funds. Today we have a real problem that needs to be said openly and publicly. Because of all this together, we are not ready at this time to withdraw the funds of European funds, but now the state needs to plant a hunch as it is at a given time of sub-metalling to provide support. Now it is up to the humper to simply convince both the private and public sectors that with certain projects and programmes you can draw money from EU funds and that these money will no longer be a burden on the state budget and that this is one of the key models so that in 2015, 2016, the expenditure side of the budget can be reduced. But if we cut the expenditure side of the budget to the economic segment by a billion and 300 million kunas uncritically, then even at that point in three or four years when we start withdrawing funds in full, we've reduced the possibility of reducing the expenditure side of the budget we've uncritically reduced before. So I'm saying that we presented it as something that will bring positive measures. Be assured that the European Commission would not mind us, as they now see that these measures are not systematic, are not long-term, but are one time and the effect is unfortunately one time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76169	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76170	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You have expressed doubts that another body that should control everything, which should be made up of a larger system, will be very difficult to control and collect data, because it will be very difficult to obtain information for publication. This is what is in principle true and that is what an ordinary human citizen of the Republic of Croatia simply cannot understand. So, an ordinary man can't understand that one ministry, some state agency, some state body doesn't give information to another state body that he's also working with them, and I'm not talking about how people can't understand that an official from one administration can't cross over to another administration without any major procedures or specialities. That's the part that seems to me to be the big problem that we have and that's holding us back, which is seemingly banal and it's actually very, very difficult, and that's that flow of documentation within the state bureaucracy. It's one terrible thing, and that's why I keep going back and forth, so we invent new methods, we move the same people to some other institutions, and I expect something to change. Nothing will change, because our legislation is so complicated that it's almost impossible. The fact is, as you said, this does not apply to support in agriculture, and the fact is that any debate where agriculture and the village can still be touched is a matter of debate between agriculture and the village. Is this not a good indication that in this assembly we should really have a real debate about the village and agriculture and give an answer to what you said? Which would have looked like a Croatian village if it hadn't been for support. It'd look like what looks like now in these last year and a half, two days, it'd just look like 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76171	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76172	Yes, colleague Hrg, I agree with this last of yours. A debate should be opened that would be critical, in which everything that was good would be brought out, which was as bad as a platform so that all of this would not happen again in the future and that simply this Croatian village would look different tomorrow and see a clear vision of what it would look like because what is happening now leads to the extinction of the village. Unfortunately, a socialist revolution that took place there in the '50s and '60s, when people dragged into town, was given apartments of 30, 40 square meters and thus disciplined. But okay, about that later. But one very interesting thing you've touched, and that's the state bureaucracy. I mentioned and I keep mentioning that concession register. This is where the exact same thing is going to happen. And now that you look at people in the ministries not sharing data with each other on time, then you can think about what it's like to start a business project, and you need some kind of opinion and attitude from some kind of 10, 15 institutions in the state at the same time. Then unfortunately, what is what is and this may be the best example, which means state red tape, when it doesn't distribute data to each other. I'm telling you, we've been collecting data for the concession register for almost three years. As minister, I signed some of the mayors' 10 warnings to deliver the data, they wouldn't deliver them. And that's the one problem. However, we have another problem. My colleagues and colleagues are now discussing reports. If the final account is submitted until 31.4. then it would be logical for all state agencies and institutions to hold their congregations or what they have in the fifth month, to adopt it, to verify it, to come to the government and to discuss the budget at the government and to discuss it in this House within 7 months before preparing and discussing the budget for the following year. They would then see whether these agencies, which have a significant impact on support and use of support, had satisfied what should be and in such a way, in a more quality and better way of discussing the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76173	Hello, Ronko, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76174	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, we fully agree on the state of support and everything that has happened and it would be strange if it weren't because you're a longtime actor of these events. So that's where we totally agree. What I wanted in some way to replicate is one of your sentences where our village would have been if it hadn't been for this support, so I would have turned this thesis one other way. Where our village would have been if it hadn't been for conversion, privatisation, if it hadn't been for newly-componed businessmen, if there hadn't been a part of those whose only goal and interest was how to roll the state, how to roll the state-owned companies, how to roll the banks, etc. Where would our village be then? You see, then our village would be there where Switzerland is and there's that problem. What was our promise at the beginning of the creation of this beautiful state. However, I'm afraid we should maybe or here's what I'll do and call if that's what it is. Let's not just talk about the spending side, we're also talking about the income side. So, I also call on the IRS, I call on the Ministry of Finance, I call on the Trade Courts, I call on the other bodies that can be charged by all those who have lagged in this country, who have lagged in the budget and who have brought us into this situation where we are now. Let's just say I'm going to say from the predecessors who's replicated you on the subject of agriculture that sucked out 4.5 companies, he's been rolling all over the country and state companies and banks of his hundreds of millions of kunas. If something had happened, if something had been done, we would have been freed and 200 million kunas, if something had been done, if something had happened, we could have released 200 million kunas and we could have directed it all in a good way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76175	Thanks, buddy. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76176	You've reached your colleague Ronko's wrong address. If anyone in this country has spoken in the last five years about companies without a single employee, if anyone has passed a concrete law with which to deal with it, then I think I can say with a full moral right that it was me. Because the introduction of the OIB was supposed to solve all these problems. Why doesn't someone want to fully implement it? I don't know. But when you look at the law on connected societies, it says one thing. However, if financial flows through the OIB when the data shows something else, then no one prevents someone from charging those debts from all businesses. It was the meaning of the whole story, not because someone in particular wants to do something like this, but when the economic crisis started, then in Croatia it proved according to the first FINA reports that 65% of the companies blocked were without any employees. And a total of 68% of the funds blocked. That just points to this. However, when we talk about converting and privatising there every political party has its share, it has its own players who have been working, and also every political party has its own that have lagged. So let's play the story. And if it were as simple as you're talking then that famously announced list of debtors would bring you so much revenue into the state budget that you wouldn't now be in the measure of an excessive deficit. And you used that for a marketing trick, and you didn't accept the real problem of why that debt list was created and since it was created. And then we're in the trouble we're in. And that's why my debate on support is just aware of all these facts and problems in the past went in another sense. In one sense, which he wanted to warn on behalf of the HDZ Club that simply some things should no longer happen in organisational form. But I'm saying what you said and I could get you some so we can go to infinity. But ultimately, the state budget has run out of money, and why someone Just one sentence, please. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Why someone doesn't want to implement a law that should take off moral size in the Republic of Croatia I don't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76177	On behalf of the HDSSB club, dear colleague Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with assistants, assistant. It was interesting, and it began to be interesting to hear about what they were about to do to each other. So, those of the former government and those of today's ruling coalition. We might have heard a little bit more if it was another replica, but here comes my turn to talk about a bill that would be better called a bill of jurisdiction in state support policy. Because when you look at the title of the State Aid Act, then you could expect everything that is said here today by the clubs that spoke before me, and what has been substrated by numerous figures about the figures that are spinning in the head, about billions and millions of kuna in terms of support and those funds that do not even fall within the scope of support in the Republic. What is therefore important for this law is that the simple competence in the policies and rules of application of State aid rules is changed that the part managed by the Competition Protection Agency and its part for State aid is simply that sector as it is called in the Agency itself belongs to the Ministry and the Ministry of Finance is responsible for State aid policy, for the application of State support to the European Commission and for everything else. Such a model applies in the EU only 7 countries out of 28. Here Croatia will be 8, following this legislative proposal. So, nice writing on the page. 4. that this model, which is precisely the Ministry of Finance as the main policy holder, is applied in Bulgaria, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Slovenia, Slovakia and France. It is interesting that no one has noticed what these goals are that are intended to achieve this proposal so that the Ministry of Finance is a simple body that manages and controls the spending of money from support. So, all in support of shorting out a simple word. Therefore, the objectives are to simplify the procedure for state aid providers. Then, more effective implementation of economic policy. A more qualitative preparation of the state support proposal, according to the centralisation of the state support system. So, clearly and loudly, it writes the centralisation of the state support system. Then, a unique database of state aids, so I'm not reading any further, but what it says, it says. When we talk about this centralisation of the state support system, I would say that this element that speaks about the entire Republic of Croatia's system itself, starting with the distribution of incomes from taxes, tax policies, the state budget, and one of the MPs here has already said that Pannonian Croatia has received support in terms of billions of kuna so far, Croatia is based on those three so-called NUTS 2 regions that were set up at the time of Ivo Sanader still is, Adriatic Croatia 2.5 billion kuna and Northwest Croatia 2 billion kuna. So Pannonian Croatia, which included eight counties other than five Slavonian and Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovac and Bjelovar-Belova County, with approximately the same number of inhabitants in all three of these regions, has received a billion kuna support for sectoral structural, horizontal however you will and Adriatic 2.5 billion and Northwest Croatia 2 billion kuna. Centralisation at the Ministry of Finance and what the Prime Minister said about Slavonia in the opening speech to speak about his right hand, and I will not mention the diagnosis or his desire, so in these two and a half years, this policy has not changed in relation to the level of support that comes to Slavonia, Baranja and these counties that were in this NUTS 2 region. It is seen by many things, according to the fiscal capacity of the county per capita, Požeško-Slavonska, Brodsko-Posaviska 1600, 1800 kuna per capita fiscal capacity, Vukovar-Srijemska 2000, the only thing that bounces away is Osijek-Baranja County. The most important thing about support policy is that only the Republic of Croatia and the entire government have an idea, has a strategy and then has control over the effects of implementation and strategy and of the effects of supporting individual segments. What has been done with the support already given, what are the effects of providing these support. It was clear here today that many of the support had gone to the wind or someone else's pocket or that, that support had served someone, therefore financial support that later those in power had media support or that they had support in the choice of the person who received support. What are the kinds of support and what has been done? Mr Schucker said well here that support and tax exemption are from certain or branches of the economy or certain business entities. The support is also a guarantee that has been provided, so it is said here that in Brodograden, it is said that 27 billion kuna has been broken so far in the form of support from various species. That, in the form of various support and guarantees, he received 20 billion kunas and that a total of HABOR funds that are also going to some kind of support, when we add it all together, that's about 75 billion kunas of different support. And now we're looking at exactly what we've done, what are the effects of providing these support, is it an increased competitiveness of the Croatian economy, is it not? Because our competitiveness is definitely and constantly falling, continuously. Is that more employment, isn't it? Is this the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? It's not. In the EU, there are 22 million so small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as they like to say the text, so... the European policy and policy of the European Parliament and the European Commission, therefore economic policy is guided precisely by this and I will say that only in one sentence, if each of these 22 million small and medium-sized enterprises would be employed through support only one person, then the EU would have 22 million new employees and say that there are 25 million in the EU, they would almost solve the problem of unemployment in the EU. What's our government doing? Reduces support, reduces even funds for the small and medium-sized economy, reduces support for employment mainly young people, what does our Croatian Government recommend with such measures? It's a message, you're moving, you're moving from Croatia. Is that a strategy, is that a policy, is that what this government's policy is, is that the Ministry of Finance approves, is that the Kukuriku coalition policy? And thanks to this attitude and the policy that Mr. Mrsic made yesterday, the minister in his speech is just young and simply young, and they have no other exits than leaving Croatia, so if the Brazilian ambassador tells me that 10,000 requests to the Brazilian embassy and about Canada not to say then what else to say, in Brazil they are leaving, one of the tigers of South American, economic lions to say, a country that is truly in one expansion regardless of the riots that occur there in connection with the world football championship. It is an interesting phenomenon when someone shows that we have increased the export of beef, so exports are increased beef, only because we have increased thanks to or unfortunately may be grieving the forced or forced slaughter of cattle, cows from the farms that are being quenched, and the production of milk in Croatia has fallen by 30%. We used to reach almost at the time of the former, we almost reached milk production for our needs, that's a billion liters a year, we were at 900 billion liters. 900 million, sorry, liters we were, and a billion is needed, now we don't even have 500 million liters of milk production. Where are the support for agriculture? Where did the support go? How come now, but it is clear that there is this Government, although this is not what Article 10 says about aids in agriculture, so that in these two years, last year, the government is one billion, one billion and a hundred, this year 400 million less for agriculture, and the effects are fully evident, absolutely clear. What does this village look like and what would it look like? It is difficult to assume, I only know that in Brod-Posavia County the reverse existence of the Croatian state has disappeared from the geographical map of two villages, the Black Stream and the Surjevica, and Stara Kapela is just one tourist settlement that is no more domestic and no more. So, three villages, conditionally speaking. If there was no tourism in the Old Chapel, it would be a completely dead village. These are the effects of many of these billions of support given on all sides, and as they were used and what the effects were, where all these money that was given in support, it would be said in one song, the truth is water deep. It's good and it would be good if we had that register in one place, I agree, it would be good as a colleague here said, if that OIB finally worked out and the function of that OIB, not the OIB as a number of some kind, but the function of that OIB was just to find out who and whose account it comes in and when it's being paid and when it's being received. I'm not an economist, I'm not an accountant, but I run a home budget, each of us has a budget in his home, in his house, whatever you want. And I know the entrance well, and I know the way out, and every one of us knows it, it would be good to have some kind of support, if someone could set us free, unfortunately, but right now I'm not going to talk about personal experiences, other times. So I'm saying this from this one here, as one doctor who has this material in front of him and in the material that it says. When we talk a little more about agriculture, let's stick to it, so this law, apart from that, says Article 17, does not apply to state support in agriculture and do not forget fishing. And Article 17 says, therefore, that the Ministry of Finance draws up an annual report on state aid, the annual report also contains a report on the support of small value and, under number two, the annual report also contains data on state aid for agriculture and fisheries, which is actually produced by the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture is again obliged to provide information to the Ministry of Finance and, in fact, to some extent, agriculture and fisheries are included in this account, the account, the report to the European Union, and what is required to be given by the Ministry of Finance To the European Commission. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] And I wanted something else, the agency that had previously been tasked with saying concerns about the non-compliance of the state aid proposal with state aid rules spent around 13 million kuna and expenditures, AZTN, that there are 55 employees, that there are 9 departments and 1 sector of administrative state support, has its own council, president of the council, I think it's time to discuss the number of agencies, their purpose and the reduction of the number of agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76179	We're moving on to replicas, first reported by the respected Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76180	In fact, in your presentation, you said one exact claim, which is that Slavonia and Baranja received the least support by looking at all regions in the Republic of Croatia, we got and did the least support and looking at all macroeconomic indicators, Slavonia and Baranja is the most underdeveloped. And looking at what the European Commission is up to, the EU is promoting a balanced development, regional development and is helping the most underdeveloped areas right now. But when it comes to the effects that this government is doing when it comes to support, then we see that there is no effect when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja because we stayed as a region with the least support and least investment, and all those black figures are now attached to Slavonia and Baranja. But we also remember the previous government and their guarantee cards, we often remember their prime minister as he spoke, not as strong as Croatia is strong Zagreb, but as strong as Vukovar,..., Slavonski Brod, etc., listing the premises and cities of units of local administrations from Slavonia and Baranja. What you didn't say exactly, which is that this government formerly had a strategy, neither government nor SDP, and when you have a strategy, you have a goal. Here the goal cannot be controlled and the effects of all support cannot be controlled, but what is good with this solution is that we finally have all the support in one place. So there's no effect, but there's no strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76181	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76182	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, I didn't say this government has a strategy. I didn't say that at all. So, I know there's no such thing as saying when there's no strategy, and there's no goal, because the goal is just, let's let the Croats go abroad, as an economic reform in 1963 when it was carried out when it went to temporary work, so on. temporary work in Germany, so from '63 to '68 until there was a war with the Czech Republic between Russia and the Czech Republic. So that's the goal, this is a new economic reform of so-called. without strategy and without goal, but with the aim of making Croats go abroad mostly young. As for Slavonia, the former government and this government would be said by the people from the evil father and worse mother to Slavonia, so no one knows who's worse and doesn't know who's more ruthless. I was asked by the tram driver to ask the gentlemen of the government why they hate Croatia, that's what the tram driver asked me when I was driving a tram to work this morning. It would be said that the seemingly moves of this government are exactly like that. This government placed Slavonia together with Zagreb and we discussed it here in the NUTZ 2 region together with Zagreb and thus increased all economic parameters, so we were 34% of the EU average now to 68% of the time we were artificially developed and we were truly underdeveloped. An interesting merger of Slavonia with Zagreb so that we can increase this economic rating so that some other regions that have been trained to write the programme will withdraw funds from the EU on the basis of the poverty of Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76183	Thank you. Second replica, Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I don't think it's nice first to compare this government and the former government to Slavonia. So just remember and your party members all that was done for Slavonia, and I know it's not enough to be done yet because Slavonia was the most affected by war, but remember only the railways that were built and the highways, the largest number of support was indeed in Slavonia. The truth is Slavonia was we have to tell the most polluted and mines and it was done, but you can't compare it with the government right now where I really think that the people of this government call the APP government, if it passes because if the Greeks finally finish their software then the funds will be withdrawn, if they don't support friends of different ministers and others who don't need to be taxed, then here we'll have something in the register, if it's a good season then some people might be able to hire as seasonal workers, and then we'll reduce the number of unemployment. Therefore, such an APP shall also rule if the Government has never been before. It is certain that it cannot be compared to the former government and this in any way, even if you are now reaching out to some people sitting in prison, but I don't think that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76185	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76186	Thank you very much. My colleague twilight, I thought when you told APP that it was a Požega car company, but it wasn't. I haven't heard of that term APP I've heard of IMT having me there. It's a much wider saying so IMT has me there, so if one can slip into one's pocket then it's that and this APP doesn't matter. But you're being denied quite a number that I've spoken out loud and clear of. That for that third statistical unit NUTZ 2 region, therefore Pannonian Croatia as your Prime Minister from Remetinca said was supported by a billion kuna. For the other two regions over two billion kunas and there's no speech there's nothing to say, that's it. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. And I said about this government, you don't know what's worse than the evil father and worse mother or how the Alliance of BiH, Montenegro when they invented a name then said Montenegro and Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76187	A new replica of the respected Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you mentioned and spoke about this problem of allegedly abolishing employment support from active youth employment measures today as well as a series of colleagues. In particular, it is a work-free employment programme, i.e. with a fee of 1,600 kuna, so it might be good for many in this assembly to recall what they were saying against this measure when this measure was taken which proved relatively successful because over 60% of those who used it also found their job or founded a working relationship. But it should be said for the public, active employment measures are not lifted. You all know and should repeat since last year, so since July of last year, Croatia entered the Youth Guarantee Programme far before it was necessary all the programmes were made and what Croatia is now waiting for, and is waiting for all other EU countries, and this is the European Commission's decision to allocate the funds so that they can be forwarded to the Member States. Unfortunately, to date, no Member State has received these funds and so has Croatia, and we have counted on them somewhere with a March month, it is 60m euros. So these are the funds that Croatia has prepared a total of 11 different programmes that would be used precisely from these funds and which are intended for young people and I think that no matter what the delay is at this time because for the first three months it has already been registered over 1700 has been made a request and all those who have applied, who are currently in use, all of them will already get these funds and can also achieve those measures. But I'm saying, we're going to the Youth Guarantee because we prepared it in time as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76189	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76190	Thank you very much. I hope you guys Sobol don't have anyone who's been in the 1600 kuna program. So no one welcomed this decision of 1600 kuna so for young people to work, but it was said, I was only speaking personally about the amount which, in some ways, when you finish I don't know, law school, economics or any other in any way and degrades those young people, that's what they're talking about, well-intentioned, I don't know how they talked naughty but I don't. As for the policy of support in the employment of young people and these European programmes, until the money is seen and until they come here to Croatia, I do not trust you and your government. Because in these 2.5 years, you've completely lied to us, cheated on us, and you haven't fulfilled a single promise, and neither will you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76191	New replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76192	Dear fellow Grubisic, if you were to be listened to insulated from the context, then you could agree with part of it. However, when it is put into the context of existing events and your parties too, it is difficult to agree. I understand that you don't trust this government, if you did, you'd be supporting it, but we don't expect you to. However, this government certainly did not find an argument in your debate, not when it comes to support etc., did anything significant in terms of the bad that you would mention, and I am glad that you did not find it and that is the case. However, you have made a lot of remarks about how it is spent on support, incentives and all other ways of money in these years, and of course it was about previous governments, and I agree with you there. Of course, you haven't been in a position to exercise authority at state level before and now you're not even responsible for state aid but you have in yours, you've been responsible for the state of your county for a few years where you've been in power. As far as I know, in your county where you're holding responsibility for power, there were certain, at least according to the media, certain irregularities in the division of incentives given by the county. In fact, maybe the media, the media, maybe it's not true, but as far as I know, the state authorities are interested in it, there's some investigations going on about it. It would not be nice, therefore, to object to others and to have such things and irregularities happen to you at the same time. I don't want to prejudge what was there, but as the folk says, where there's smoke, there's fire. So every time there's something to talk about, you have to go from the one to the one to the other first to the front of your doorstep and then to someone else's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76193	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76194	Come on, I'm hearing weaker here, or you're speaking vaguely, but just think straight and real. So your Shegon got more support than any county in Slavonia and Baranja, so only one of your men got more support than any county in Slavonia and Baranja. That's what you tell us. It's not that I don't trust you either HDSSB, it's that the Croatian people don't trust you, and it's also shown in the staged polls where your ratings are dropping, falling and falling, as well as everything else that falls and GDP, consumption and production and exports, etc., and economic growth. And if you're already talking about how we haven't handled the ship, I'm from Brod-Posavia and not from Osijek-Baranja County, Osijek-Baranja County has made a big step, economic progress during the HDSB to tell the government. But in the country in the next term, when you fall into extraordinary or regular elections, we will certainly exercise power in the country of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76195	The last replica Ivan Šimunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am not sure that the full exclusion of the Competition Protection Agency from this process is the right way to go. The Agency has indeed lost a good deal of its powers in favour of the European Commission. There are reportedly shortcomings in the implementation of consultative nature tasks, but we have not been familiar with these specific shortcomings, so we are forced to make a decision here, believing exclusively the proposal's assessment. The provision of State aid has a significant impact on the market. And I therefore believe that the agency should still keep at least an advisory role throughout the story. And counseling those who seek state support but also the ministry. The European Commission is responsible for monitoring the competition at Union level. However, I am not sure that an institution that is so far away from the field as the Commission can fully ensure that in any particular case, it is fully correct and without distortions of competition, by creating unfair competition to which support can be contributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76197	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76198	Thank you very much, colleague Šimunović, so I counted 7 countries where this solution is, Croatia would be 8. However, it does not say how this has been resolved in the other 20 European Union countries. And I said and pointed out that it's just how it's written in the very material on centralisation at the Ministry of Finance. Is this a great authority for the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance in connection with distribution and state aid or support in general from the European Union? This is now one issue that we can discuss. Whether it is the agency that may be in other countries or some other body is deciding more about the support there is not a single word in this material. I personally don't know much about the Ministry of Finance or the Agency. It's for me state bodies, state authorities, and if it's one government that's the one that, corn, it's exactly the same for me or whatever. It is important that these support achieve their goal, it is important that it achieves a growing competitiveness in the Croatian economy and in the Croatian state, it is important to encourage the employment of these aids, and who will do so to me whether the agency or the ministry will. Only so far support has obviously not obtained the desired results or achieved the objectives set or effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76199	The SDP club's position will be brought closer to us by respected Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76200	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The important or most important news in relation to the current aid law in this law is that finally AZTN will no longer have any business or ingenuity over the aids. Finally, it came to this and it was good that it had come to this because so far we have witnessed here in the Parliament when it comes to state aid we were here before the Parliament to be the leaders of AZTN and to submit support reports. And if they were the key in this whole story, were they deciding how much money from the budget they were going to go to, where they're going, how much they're going to go, I'm not sure. They were more of an administrative and technical part of the job, whether it was the support, whether or not it was in line with the competition or not, but not the policy itself, and here you came to the Parliament and submitted a report. So we had an unnatural state, an abnormal condition that someone who didn't really make the key decisions about it was supposed to defend it here in front of the Parliament, justify it, etc. And that's why the previous changes that we made last year changed that, and this, ultimately, and finally... is condescending that AZTN has nothing to do with the support that's good and it's really natural and normal to do so. Because the one whose money is, and the state is the money, the money is from the budget, the one who assigns it should and answer it, he should also follow what's going on, not hide behind the agency like it has been until now. Why was that, if it had to, I don't think so. Whether money and support policies were purposely to be determined in the Government, and that someone else submitted a report, then, but now it was finally arranged that this report would be submitted by the Government or by means of the Ministry of Finance, which is normal and that the agency would ultimately no longer have any support business. In doing so, the agency remains only her business, the narrowest one if I can say so, the narrowest job of protecting the competition, and that's what she needs to do, but we'll talk about it when we talk about the agency's work. I mean, there's a lot to complain about and see, but at least now the agency will only have one job, they won't be able to say that she's been doing this job, so maybe they haven't got this other one that's normal and natural. It is good that all the people who have done this job at the agency are practically going to the Ministry of Finance, and there will be no more serious problems, so neither will it take time for stalking, because people who have done it so far will only completely cross over to the Ministry of Finance. So it will be possible without great stalking to continue this work, but it will come to a natural state and normally so that these people... at the Ministry of Finance, that the Ministry of Finance here before the Parliament is also ultimately accounting for the state body of the Ministry of Finance, not the agency, in negotiations and talks with the European Commission. So far, we have always been able to talk about the dry numbers around the support, so how much money, etc., but what was always a problem, and that is what happens with it, what happens with these aids, what happens with these public money and now finally when the government, when the ministry has jurisdiction... will be able to answer, ultimately they will be asked why it went here, not there and how it was spent. Because I've always been here so far when we spoke in the Parliament, which was the problem with the support. Our business often ended with a division of support and a point. In fact, it is only then to be started because it is not the goal of sharing state money but is the goal of reaching certain results, increasing production, employment, etc., but it was mostly not to worry about what the effects of the aid were but to divide the point, and much less attention was paid to the implementation of it, to the analysis of it, to the monitoring of it, to the question whether it was spent as it belongs, so if it is not to return, etc. After all, when we look at the data, we see why, on different aspects of support, subsidies, incentives, etc., it's all the same for these citizens, it's all state money and it's at an annual level somewhere around 8-9 billion, huge money that went to the largest amount of agriculture, shipbuilding, HZ etc. What the results were, we see. Shipbuilding produced fewer ships, shipbuilding workers were dissatisfied, every little strike, and huge money went there. In HH similar problems, less and less transported by passengers and goods, workers dissatisfied, every little strike and dissatisfaction. In agriculture we don't talk. So, the hour a little now, the farmers, the cattlemen's class, the hour these milkmen, so everyone on the road, dissatisfied, and the huge money about 4 billion a year went where, that's another question. One piece of information is fragrant. So in 2004 alone, about 2 billion and 86 million went to agriculture, in 2011, so 7 years later 4 billion 125 million, so twice as much, and agricultural production did not double, not that it did not increase, but did not increase in many segments, in some. It is almost absurd, but Croatia unfortunately cannot feed itself despite such transfers of public money to the agriculture sector. Perhaps it should be said to the public that unfortunately Croatia produces only 3 or 4 cultures for its own purposes, and everything else is condemned to import. No meat, no meat of any kind Croatia produces enough, no milk and milk products. We only produce enough wheat, mandarin, honey, and that's about it. Everything else, so it's not produced enough, and the huge money's gone. Now that part of the support in agriculture, therefore the agricultural sector will be in the European Commission's control. And that's good. We will play by the same rules as the other members of the European Commission. Whether our village and our agriculture will be ready for this competition is another question, I don't want to reconsider and say how it will be. But if it isn't, it's a sin on those who have so far not prepared our village and our agriculture, that's how they take care of it, those money that goes into the sector. So instead of becoming competitive, they were waiting, so just helping to live off incentives, not for them to be the ones who would allow them to be more competitive. What's important is also to say about this law, which is that there comes a simplification or less administration, etc. So far, you've had to send more addresses to multiple addresses because there's been a radio report, etc. Now it will all be done in one place if I can say so in the Ministry of Finance. So, so far it's had to be if you wanted to get support to go to the Ministry of Finance for a purpose assessment. The Agency is then asked to see if this is necessary to obtain the European Commission’s statement and approval, if necessary, on the European Commission. So three addresses. Now everything will be in one place at the Ministry of Finance, one place to decide and one place to collect data, file a report, and that's good. So, if it's public money, state money, and then it's okay for the government to decide on it, the government and bear responsibility and submits a report and ultimately responds to what it's made for, and now it's naturally put in place where it needs to be. So, if we can say and this is about introducing order and responsibility, knowing who's doing what's right and what's right, and that's about the policy that this government is trying to do in all segments of this, and that's to know who's supposed to do what's right and who's responsible, so more order and responsibility. And eventually to simplify the procedure. And I think that, I'm going to end it, that this is finally the point of "i", so that finally when it came to the support of things, we put them where they belong, and that's the executive authority, that's the ministry, so not that the agency has cared about it so far, and here in front of the Parliament, it appeared as the one who submitted the report, although the agency was not entirely or partly co-responsible for the support policy that it was, which was in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76201	We're moving on to replicas. First esteemed Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In most of the debate, we can agree, as everyone today has simply debated. But I don't understand why everyone except the HDZ club is talking about AZTN today. Because then I get the impression that the law hasn't been read. Because the key thing AZTN did about the support was to give an opinion whether the support was legal or illegal is practically 1.7. The European Commission is working in 2013. So when we adopted the latest report on AZTN's work, that was said. Nor will the Ministry of Finance now issue solutions on whether support is legal or illegal, but will be decided by the European Commission. So that's the first fact. That it was decided that AZTN no longer as such should do this job of recording support etc. It's another pair of shoes. But honestly speaking to my colleague Jelusic, if AZTN hadn't done this in the past few years, we would have had a show that we would have. Your best example is shipbuilding. Since 1.6.2006, no shipbuilding guarantee has been issued without the opinion of AZTN, which agreed with the European Commission. Why? Because the shipbuilding was in the restructuring process. But you have why I'm telling you this. You have one case when it was 3. In May, the Ministry of Finance simply couldn't give a guarantee because they didn't meet the conditions. AZTN didn't allow it, and then what happens politically? The Rijeka City Council decides to issue a guarantee for 3. May, even though it's totally illegal. However, when you had those times of negotiations, etc. One to say so to an independent regulatory agency, then you could have done a lot of things. And if AZTN hadn't done his part of the story, we probably wouldn't be in the position we are. However, I ask myself a question if this department at the Ministry of Finance does not rise to some level without being given the importance of how effective it will be in collecting this data. So, the simple thing is to look at reality without politics. Why? Well, because this may be something that will either help or help the Croatian economy tomorrow. But if we look at it this way, until yesterday we were all about Mrs. Spevec and AZTN, especially when you weren't in power, everyone was saying thank you. AZTN's not good today, it's just not good. AZTN has done his job fairly, correctly and has brought Croatia into this phase so that it can be talked about this law today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76203	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76204	Comrade Shuker, we may not have understood each other very well. I'm not attacking AZTN. AZTN did what it was given to do. I'm not attacking her at all. I'm saying that they were doing someone else's work and here in the House they were reporting on support even though they weren't the key to it. Therefore, the Agency did not determine how much of the budget would be set for support. That decision has always been made by the ruling majority, the government, so here in the Parliament. Therefore, the agency submitted a report. Therefore, if it was the policy of a particular government, the government, then the government should have responded here in the Parliament rather than the agency. The agency did it in that sense, she could tell if something was in accordance with the law or not, and she should have done it, so she's doing the administrative part of the job right now. But not to be responsible for the support policy and the billions that were going because she didn't decide whether it was going to be a billion or five. This was decided by the government, and thus the government should have submitted a report. And so that's the point I'm talking about, now the agency has nothing to do with the support, which is natural, if the government is the one that determines how much government is going to be here and answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76205	A new replica, the gnome of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Jelusic in one part, let me agree with your debate, but you have finally started to touch and defend yourself. Well, you know, there's one saying that the winners are looking for solutions, and the losers are looking for an apology. Unfortunately, this government has been a loser for a long time because it keeps asking for excuses, and it's always someone else's fault. If this doesn't work, it's the former government. If we don't make this work, it's our former government again. You touched the distinguished colleagues and agriculture and mentioned nicely, among other things, mandarin and honey. Yes, if there were no support at that time, you wouldn't be talking about Mandarins or honey today. But you wouldn't even mention olive oil, you wouldn't mention other products for which the producers were actually prepared. I don't understand why you didn't mention then that during the former government, negotiations on agriculture were concluded, let's touch those sugar quotas. The best of all the countries that entered the country at the time were negotiated to produce 192,877 tonnes of sugar. And we got quotas. But you are not saying that Minister Jakovina has re-used his discretionary right, as he has made it available to state land, and, under his discretionary right, has given the highest sugar quota of course in the city where his mayor is. The Constitutional Court annulled it. Jakovina is silent, you are silent, and the only answer is that there is everything in the spirit of justice and justice. Well, if that's it, it's sad. Don't talk like that all the time. You're talking about relevant facts, concrete facts, and don't apologize all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76207	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76208	Comrade twilight, we don't apologize, nor do we need to apologize, and we're talking about facts. So, and the facts are this, I'll repeat them maybe you didn't hear them well. So you said yourself that, you said there wouldn't be mandarins, that there wouldn't have been this if it hadn't been for your government's policy and certain incentives, etc. And so the facts are next, I'll repeat. In 2004, therefore, it went from public money to 2 billion and 86 million. In 2011, at the end of your reign, so 4 billion 125, twice as much. And agricultural production is not double, although it is not increased. The result of such a agricultural policy of your governments and your age is that apart from three foods, except for three products, other than wheat, mandarin and honey of no agricultural culture, no meat or milk, nothing that Croatia produces from that sector is sufficient for its own purposes. If we didn't import, by any chance, if I was speaking theoretically closed country, we'd be hungry. This is the result of your agricultural policies and your incentives that went and that are double and no production. The question is, where did it go? To buy votes? Bribery or someone likes you and we give them money? But in any case, you haven't prepared our village and agriculture for a competition because that's what the data says.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76209	A new replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76210	Thank you. When it comes to the work of this Competition Protection Agency, I think it should be recalled that its work was not only State support but general protection of the competition in the Republic of Croatia in all those, in the grouping of capital, in the granting of merger assessments and the like. Therefore, on the side of this State subsidy or State support and this solution which may be ok. However, other issues remain regarding the protection of competition, and this topic is not exhausted or completed in Croatia and will be constantly present and perhaps, in the future, will actually appear in a variety of forms of capital movements through the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to agencies, we welcome the shutting down of every agency because we have too many in Croatia and this country in recession is having a hard time supporting it. I will remind you of this published report by the Institute of Public Finance that we have 44 state agencies with 6,000 employees and about 4 billion kuna budgets in the Republic of Croatia. It's been mentioned several times here by the Agricultural Payments Agency. It's an eclectic example of intransparent work, vague payment models, vague displays. It may indeed be happy if the Ministry of Finance wants to take over the tranches from the budget so that it can also take over the agency's work. Because we had a chance to see a report on the tranches according to one of the OPGs in parliamentary matters, these are sheets of various models of payment, various amounts. Not that it's transparent, it's not that it's unclear, it's not that it's rather strange, but I think it would really be if you wanted to introduce order in this part of the segment and then give this agency to the Ministry of Finance and make it more transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76211	This replica corresponds to Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76212	Dear fellow Djurovic, you said this might be okay, so maybe this law is okay. I don't know why you're so shy when something's good, so shy you say something might be okay. So tell me clearly the law is good and good that you did it. Well, your voters won't mind if you support something good this government has suggested. So you show that you work for the good of this country, that you understand that something is good and that you support something good. Well, no one in Croatia will blame you for that. So when something's good and a lot of it's good here this government suggests say clearly and loudly, that's good, and maybe it's not okay. Why this shy relationship? You will not harm yourselves, nor will you help us, but you will be more credible among the voters. As I will always admit to you when you do something good, you did it well, and we don't think I'm going to hurt myself and help you. So the opposition should criticise what is wrong and a constructive opposition, the real opposition. And what's a good word, that's a good word, don't be ashamed to say it. I mean, this government is really a problem to you, but maybe this government is a lot of good suggestions, so if they said it was good, that you support it, but at least sometimes say it, so what's good, that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76213	Last line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76214	Thank you very much. A colleague Jelusic, this legislative proposal was not based on the wisdom and knowledge of the Kukuriku coalition and their desire to do so, she did so in order to fit into the EU's state support system and, by the way, I will not tell the European Commission's orders or orders, and it says in this material. So it's not someone else's mind that's built in, it's the European Commission. And when you spoke in your presentation, then you, you did not attack at all any support that was invested in shipbuilding, in the railways, etc., without results but you looked at agriculture the most. From this, it is recognised that you and your Kukuriku coalition do not understand the problems of agriculture at all. You're not even sensitive to agricultural problems. Namely, if you know that 23 billion food is purchased annually in Croatia and imports are 15.5, that means that two thirds of the food is imported, which is paid to the state by 40% of customs, excise duty, VAT. Now how much did the state earn on 15 billion food imports, what's 40%? 6 billion and to the farmers of the OPG, how much is given, the support given, compare it, and you will see why, because of the steak, the state steaks of customs, excise duties and VAT died Croatian agriculture, you are, for the sake of the steak, the last nail in its...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76215	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76216	A colleague Grubisic, if this were the mind of the European Commission or this Government, if you had read this previous law a little more carefully, you would have seen that even when we were a member of the European Commission and since we were a member of the European Commission, we have had another solution but we have come to the conclusion that this solution is much better. It is therefore not prescribed by the European Commission where these few officials will sit, whether they will sit at the agency or here. Not the European Commission determines something else, which is where agriculture is going to be now because Europe is being led by a common agricultural policy, and it will be in that part, in this part of the EU will be monitored and referred to. Therefore, the key question is therefore I repeat the common European policy in the European Commission will now be the question of how competitive our village and agriculture will be and how powerful it will be to deal with European producers, people, farmers and businesses in other EU Member States, and therefore this government does not bear the responsibility but rather the previous government, the previous HDZ Government and its coalition partners who, according to my assessment, did not enable our village and our agricultural producers to be competitive because they did not allow them to strengthen their competitiveness, to increase production rather than to buy their support, to buy their political favor, and now they will return as... and to Croatia as well. So in the style of that Japanese, you need to teach a man how to fish and not give him fish to eat, so that he can solve his hunger problem. That's how it should have been done before, but unfortunately it hasn't. We didn't teach our people how to hunt fish, learn how to make products competitive, rather than let them survive that year and what happens later wasn't taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76217	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76218	Final proposal of the Law on State aid, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 625. The debate on the final proposal of the Law is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 92 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 7 abstentions are passed by the State Support Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76219	We move to the next item of the agenda, it's - Proposed factoring law, first reading, P.Z. No. 621. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yes, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. There is currently no law governing the factoring activity of the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Parliament, in its third session held in January to March 2012, is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer to the debate and adoption of the Factoring Act. The Ministry of Finance requested technical assistance from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the EBRD and a working group was established in 2012 which, with the help of the EBRD consultants, developed a proposal for the Factorisation Act. Factoring represents the purchase of the claim and despite the lack of law governing this area in the Republic of Croatia, this activity was carried out by credit institutions and in this case was carried out by the Croatian National Bank and the companies registered for factoring operations when the supervision was carried out by the HANFA under the HANFA Act. On 31st December 2013, there were 14 factoring companies in the Republic of Croatia according to certain statistics of HANFA somewhere in 2007, there were about 16 companies, most of which were 31.3.2011. where there were 19 companies, so that part of the movement means that now 14 numbers are what they are. However, which is significant even though this says varies this number of assets is growing strongly so that when we talk about the company factoring activity at the end of 2013 it reached an amount of around 8 billion kuna, which accounts for around 1.3% of the financial sector's assets and about 5.5% of the assets of the total non-bank financial sector, where this part includes factoring. In this way, factoring companies occupy 7th place per representation in the financial sector and 5th place in representation by the financial not banking sector. When we talk about some of their business, we see they're doing a positive job. The total income of companies registering for the performance of factoring operations in 2013, at the end of 2013, amounted to 824 million kuna, while expenditure amounted to around 606 million kuna, which means that the gross profit of these 14 factoring companies would amount to 217 million kuna, when we talk about net profits it is somewhere at around 178 million kuna. It is also important to say that factoring services are not harmonised at EU level, i.e. they are not, there is no single harmonisation, i.e. that different countries have actually adopted certain regulations or have been resolved through some other laws. So, factoring is mentioned in several directives that regulate both credit and this other non-bank financial institutions. Given the trend in factoring services in the Republic of Croatia and the risk of factoring companies that are not members of a group of credit institutions controlled by the CNB are not covered in one whole way, regulation of this area was necessary. Therefore, the adoption of this law achieves greater stability, increases the security and transparency of factoring transactions, as well as ensuring quality and proper supervision in these areas. So, according to your recommendations from this High House, the government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to draft and propose this law. We're talking, this is the first reading, we'll see yours today, in your debate whether this area is well regulated for now, so as long as it's on your proposals in this House of Commons, if you come up with concrete and quality suggestions we'll definitely consider them until the second reading, we have time for certain repairs if they show up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76221	I thank the Deputy Minister. We've got two lines reported. First Honored Vice President of the House, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, not wanting to get into the scale of things, I'm going to ask the same question I asked when it was put on the agenda. It's completely unclear to me why it's called the Proposed Factoring Law as if we don't have any Croatian words for it? We have, it could have been calmly called the Bill of Repurchase, so I don't see any reason to use a nakaradian stranger who doesn't actually have room, especially in the title of one law. Since you have asked for concrete proposals, a concrete proposal is to throw away this factoring and put the proposal for a law on buy-in claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76223	The replica matches, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I agree that Croatian words should be used more in the legislation, but in this factoring, you know that since the 1990s that such a term is... in the economy and then it was spoken not only of import factoring, but of export factoring and where this is one word that has actually been generally accepted in the EU and the way our entrepreneurs communicate with external entrepreneurs and when we use different terminology in other countries, a similar terminology has been used, and in this case it is continued here. What we were saying was that when it was the form of a ransom claim, we were also trying to go in that segment to call it a ransom claim, but then the question came up again whether or not the claims had failed, etc., not to spread that one whole problem to talk only about inaccessible claims when you use factoring, the Government decided so far in this form, but I certainly agree that as much as possible use of Croatian words in legislation as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76225	The second line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76226	Thank you very much. I honestly expected you to explain more technically this law, and if you'd explained it more broadly, then we wouldn't be here at all if you were buying out a claim, one way or another, but... you just said what it was. But I'm interested in the fact that I expected you to explain more widely, and I'm interested above all in who's behind these factoring societies? Who's behind those factoring companies? They didn't come out like mushrooms and mushrooms had to be planted or something expensive. So whose capital is behind these companies? You've already said 8 billion kuna, and we in Croatia have an Office for the Prevention of Money that's very successful and another thing, if it's such a good thing, and since neither the state nor the tax administration are able to collect some of their claims, then I expect that they'll help the state to collect claims, this little joke and another thing, surveillance. We have been from HANFA, which was an independent institution and which has really done surveillance of the non-banking sector, turned HANFA into a clean administrative body. But the key question is also for this clean administrative body, who is behind the factoring of companies, are these powerful financial institutions that in this way one part of the financial market in the Republic of Croatia wants to have under their control or is it something else? So I think that perhaps in the final word or through the replicas you will say something more about the very meaning of this law. Why? Because this law has a lot of financial and legal traps to talk about, and they can't be spoken of by laymen, but they can talk about by people who are quite involved in this legal financial system of the Republic of Croatia so that they can warn about possible negativity that can happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76227	In line with the reply, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76228	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you ask who stands behind the factoring of companies, meaning what I was saying, means business factoring is operating in the Republic of Croatia according to statistics since 2007, so probably when you were the finance minister, you got such a response from the competent institutions, and I believe and therefore we also say that the law on the prevention of money flows when it was and were well controlled by the whole process although there was no legislative regulation. You know that the factoring of society most often is a part similar to that of Liesing companies most often founded certain credit institutions. But it is precisely why this law is good because for the first time all factoring companies will pass licensing with the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. So after 7 years of business, they will first pass and license, they have so far controlled money flows because they had to do so through other legal regulations but now they will go much tighter and stronger controls and controls and licenses and approvals of these licences and reporting and much wider controls. And that's why we're talking all the time because of the transparency we're introducing this law and that's what we seem to be and on your particular proposal in this House to bring it in and I think we're both going to find that this law gets the right full effect to be controlled in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76229	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Boris Blazekovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support the proposal for a factoring law in the first reading. We at the HNS think that the two greatest values of this very complex law are. First, as the factoring or redemption of debt claims is first framed in Croatia by law and second, the bill goes into two readings and possible shortcomings in a comprehensive debate. In Croatia it is already said with the said business or factoring activity of registered 14 or 16 factoring companies. In the structure of the property of the non-banking factoring sector, the company participates with the assets of about 7.18 billion kuna, which accounts for 1.32% of the assets of the financial sector and 5.36 assets of the total non-bank financial sector, as Mr. Deputy Minister also said before me. The data presented by the company factoring position 7th month after representation in the financial sector or 5th place after representation in the financial non-banking sector. The factoring companies of the Republic of Croatia achieved a profit of EUR 87.19 million after tax in 2012. Therefore, the fact that factoring is engaged as a registered activity is a significant company. Factoring service providers are currently not regulated in the Republic of Croatia which creates legal uncertainty in some types of factoring transactions. Given the trend in the growth of factoring services in the Republic of Croatia and the risk of factoring companies that are not members of the group... institutions in the Republic of Croatia are not covered by proper supervision, it is necessary to regulate their business by legal factoring legislation. I have little to admit to myself, too, but at the HNS, it hurts this term factoring. With such a significant share in the financial market with a growth trend, especially for reasons of going to the common European market, factoring is necessary to be regulated by law. This also adds to the overall financial market. It's another of the many positive measures of this government in so-called. to take care of the state. It is important to note that factoring services are not regulated at EU level or there is a unique definition of factoring at EU level. In the EU factoring there was a regulated industry in the late 2000s and the reason is the growing importance of factoring industry in the country in particular for financing small and medium-sized enterprises and factoring is regulated in Germany, Italy, Austria and Hungary. It should be noted that, in the absence of legal regulation, the factoring business mentioned by other companies offering factoring services, and under the supervision of the agencies were not subject to licensing, authorisation for the management of minimum underlying capital rules, qualifying share, reporting and similar rules. Therefore, the supervision of the Agency is limited only to the verification of the conduct of operations in accordance with the Accounting Act, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism as well as other laws, sublaws which are generally regulated by the business of companies in the Republic of Croatia. They would set out some of the provisions of the bill that make us in the HNS more important. In the head, the first is about general provisions on the subject of laws and concepts. In the second chapter is about factoring itself and the application of the provisions of the law governing mandatory relations, factoring business, factoring subject, future claims, factoring entities, types of factoring, sad and foreign factoring, regressive and non-regressive factoring, supplier so-called. The reverse factoring, the purchase of bonds, the factoring contract, the performance of the factoring business. The third chapter contains status provisions which determine who and how can provide factoring and regulate services. Factoring company activity factoring society, core capital factoring of a company that cannot be less than one million kuna, company factoring capital, company factoring shares, related person and indirect share, change of qualifying shares of the factoring society, demand for granting consent to acquire a qualifying share, decision-making process for obtaining a qualified share, decision on consent to acquire a qualifying share, refusal to obtain a qualifying share, legal consequences of acquiring a qualifying share, legal consequences of acquisition without compliance on the termination of a solution for obtaining a qualified share, consent to obtaining a qualifying share in another legal person, approval of the performance of factoring operations, merger of procedures in the decision-making of approval for the performance of factoring operations, the authorisation of the performance of factoring operations, the acquisition and suspension of approval of the business, etc. The law further lays down in Article 47 of the very complex conditions for a member of the company's factoring board. Chapter 4 regulates the performance of factoring operations outside the Republic of Croatia or in another EU Member State. In Chapter 5, however, it regulates the performance of factoring operations, the factoring of companies from EU member states and third countries. Chapter VI. The proposal for this law regulates the management of risks to which the factoring society is exposed. Chapter VII. prescribes ways to conduct business books and financial reports and audit them. Chapter VIII. sign the supervision of the company's factoring and supervision of the supervisory agency, the subject of supervision, the control fee, the manner of supervision, the person authorised to monitor, the transmission of data at the request of the Agency, the notification of direct supervision, the direct supervision of operations, the conditions for carrying out direct supervision, the control of the information system, the completion of the procedure of direct supervision, the grounds of the objection, the content of the objection, indirect supervision of the business, the minutes of indirect supervision, the control measures, the type of control measures, recommendations of the company's management, the warning and the removal of established illegalities, irregularities, reports of the authorised auditor, the removal of the illegality and irregularities, the solutions for the elimination of illegality and irregularities, the special supervisory, the solution for the abolition of the authorisation for work. In Chapter XIV. Infringement provisions have been contained, which are relatively high penalties regulated more severely and easier violations of factoring society and weigh 200 to 500 thousand kuna and are easier 50 to 100 thousand kuna, these are relatively high penalties, perhaps they should be audited as well. It is evident from everything in short and tax-based terms that it is a very complex bill that regulates the equally demanding and very complex factoring activity. We in the CNS consider factoring to be necessarily evil, factoring is essentially wrong, unfair and comes out of the situation of inability and collection of claims. It would be much more natural to fully respect the law of certain payment deadlines or, within a particularly short period, an effective judiciary. But the reality, unfortunately, is quite different and the reality needs to be accepted as a fact. That's why factoring is an activity that's important. Factoring is an activity that can significantly help economic operators in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. Factoring can enable extensions of eligible processes, payouts, payment obligations to other suppliers. In some cases factoring services may be crucial to the survival of one of the small or medium-sized entrepreneurs. For this reason, I repeat, the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats Club will support the bill's proposal in real reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76231	We have one replica reported. Dear Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Coli Blažeković here we started with notes, i.e. language objections to the term factoring. I thought I'd wait until there's an individual debate, and I'll mention it one more time. But I think it's important to mention it now at the very beginning of the club debate. In particular, by doing so, I did little research on how this term is incorporated, or how it is used in economies and the European Union, as well as countries in the environment. First, we cannot talk about factoring necessarily as a debt buyout, so it does not necessarily have to be just as you yourself mentioned, so there are different factoring definitions depending on the market on which they are regulated and how. So, first of all, it wouldn't be a translation point in that sense, it's regulated in Articles 4 and 5, which also have some complaints, but we can discuss it later. So the word factoring, i.e. the term comes from English and in German, Italian, Czech, Macedonian, Polish and Slovenian, is just as factoring. There are only some small deviations or transliterations in the mother tongue, so that's what we're talking about, whether it's a letter, whether it's a k instead of c, but that's all the difference. According to what I have found in European languages, only two languages have different formulated terms of factoring, and it is more for the sake of integration in the very language or to be in the spirit of the language itself and it is Hungarian and French. In Hungarian it's... , therefore very, very similar but following the legality of the Hungarian language and in French it is a la facturage therefore, again very, very similar but again it is guided by the legality of the language in which it is incorporated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76233	The replica matches Boris Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76234	Thank you very much. We used to manage each other in HNS, which is the principle that certain colleagues have already spoken about and it is that as much of the law as possible should be incorporated into the Croatian language and that as long as possible, any foreigners should be avoided. And we believe that Croatia is rich enough to be able to find ways to avoid the name factoring and introduce some kind of Croatian term. It is clear that this in the business community is a much more significant, simpler, more acceptable and understandable name of the business that the factoring of society deals with, but we believe that there might be some kind of term that would be in the spirit of the Croatian language and that it could also mark all these activities that are and are truly numerous and are really quite complicated and contained in the draft of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76235	On behalf of the SDP club, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking immediately on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club, I can immediately say that we will support this proposal of the Factoring Act. And maybe I should start by what was most pronouncing here and that's the name itself, why factoring, how to translate factoring into Croatian. It should first and foremost begin with the fact that factoring services, as stated in this reasoning of the bill, are not regulated at all at European Union level. Which means that many countries understand and define different services by factoring. There is one directive on annual financial reports and consolidated financial statements at European level, and examples of legal definitions are also not numerous in individual laws at national level. Let us also say that the example of Germany that has this is well regulated, that is, regulation of the legal concept itself. It is good that we have this bill because the factoring services in Croatia have already been used in some ways. We can't say that this job is still booming, but practically its history in Croatia, the factoring history might say it dates back to 2003. That it is already falling, but when our construction operation comes into trouble, so also demand, or desire for this service, is then growing. What is wanted by this bill? This has already been said, we also have in the very explanation where the applicant states to encourage a further development of factoring services, to guarantee stability, legitimacy in the economy, and to increase legal certainty in all transactions and then also in factoring transactions themselves. The asked question may be unnecessary, but it has already been imposed here, which is why, in any case, it is unsustainable that the factoring remains unregulated because this bill makes all societies subject to licensing, as it has said precisely in the explanation and subsequent explanation of the Deputy Minister, the management approval, the rules on minimum underlying capital. Therefore, one better responsibility and one overall boosts financial security. In crisis recession times when it is difficult for businesses to get to capital, it is certain that in some way the question of whether it will come then and whether factoring services as one of the most wanted financial services could have already occurred. So we can say that regardless, I'm going to explain a little bit later what they need to take care of, first of all, service seekers, but also those who approve them, that at a time when unpaid claims grow, but this is seen from the attached that the growth and activity is just factoring societies, either those banks as financial institutions of such type or special societies. However, this puts this factoring of society itself in a position to carefully choose the placements and remain focused precisely on qualitative companies which are essentially factoring, which need this service to speed up liquidity rather than to address the problem of their claims. This service is important at national economy level because it develops and improves the culture of payments, promotes good business practices and respect for contractual obligations that have been in Croatia for a long time, this is what the Croatian Government is facing most, this one culture or non-payment as a new social value, and not what causes condemnation, so it is the biggest problem of the government that it is facing. And when they are about to deal with such situations, they are facing the greatest resistance, which means that such wells are already financially submerged and have influence in the media where, instead of identifying and supporting certain good things, citizens are informed, then for some very marginal reasons, there are reasons to dispute these things. Factoring is a form of short-term financing on the basis of unsatisfactory claims, buying out claims that usually have, as I said, a shorter maturity. In fact, it's a business of financing a trade claim, whether it's imported or exported, over that factor, i.e. the factoring companies, and as a special organisation that provides the client with payment and helps him manage his claims more easily. So if we did, we could name it ourselves because it's already something more concrete about the subject factoring that's then talking about the factoring business, which is essentially the very definition of what we consider factoring our own bill. This is defined in Article 5, and we have the only possibility that instead of the factoring law, and since there are already people and those who already use it and those who provide services do not meet with it for the first time, then I think we would further confuse it if we gave a title, let's say taking over a claim that is too narrow or too wide given the content of the concept. Thus, the law could be called the Law on the Inaccessible Future Indemnities, resulting from the basics of the supply of goods or the provision of services by business entities abroad and abroad which I do not think would be good because even that description itself does not always have to correspond to everything that later on, through certain transactions of this kind can cause. The buyer factoring services can be financed with the help of factoring the company provided that all orders before the employer delivers the delivery factor to the approval. That the company factor puts this particular emphasis, however, on the company’s continued examination of the customer’s creditworthiness before taking over any claim. So we should, it was already mentioned here that this would benefit small, medium-sized enterprises. So, that they know, those who use or who use these services even more in the future to know that this job, that factoring only serves to speed up cash flow, but not to collect some suspicious or unquality claims. So, the aim of this factoring is to speed up cash flows, to only market financially, but then economic flows for the economy itself get one certain living, to sort of bypass expensive loans, to reduce the risk of business, to increase rentability, bonuses and, as I have already pointed out, to better manage the claim. So let all those who think that in such a way, there is no need to deceive their suspicious or unskilled claims to charge that factoring does not serve, or it will be difficult to find such one, such a factoring society that will meet such a single requirement. Now the question is, of course, and that already is, that's something that puts potential customers of this service in a dilemma whether a bank or a private, or a separate society that will deal with this service or already deals. So it's determined already to show practice. The answer to the fact that it is precisely the price of the one who gives a cheaper service will therefore probably have more work to do. So, by supporting this SDP law proposal, the SDP recognizes that it will provide financial services, guaranteeing that this will guarantee stability and legitimacy in the economy, increase legal certainty in any case in the broadest sense of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76237	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76238	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid, I don't think it matters at all whether it's factoring or buying a claim, it's not an important translation, but it's essential that it's passed in this law. But you just mentioned expensive loans. It's always a risk assessment of whether someone gets interest on this or that loan. So the expensive loan usually gets the one that's over-indebted. Factoring usually serves companies that are over-indebted, cannot get credit, and then offer their future claims or current incentives precisely for that ransom. However, looking at this legal solution, and in particular the risk measurement technique on page 34, it is not sufficiently explained or needs to be expanded, and it would be particularly interesting that just such companies or banks gave a risk assessment or measured the risk before the state in pre-departure deals had written off its claims. I'd like to see what the risk measurement would say to the provost of a business bank or a company like this if we had one legal solution before the pre-departure settlement law itself. Therefore, the risk must be assessed before. And I would like to see both the government and the people who work in FINA help from just the houses that can measure the risk, and not to make a decision at the level of a man who may not be well enough or educated enough to measure the risk. Therefore, this law would have to be more content and more extensive in measuring the risks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76239	The replica matches Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76240	So in terms of what you have pointed out specifically in terms of better definition, i.e. prevention and risk elimination can be agreed, and I am using this opportunity to respond to your replica to the SDP club in all respects and the opinion of the Legislative Committee that it should be improved by the text itself in this section, but also by Article 47 which speaks of the good reputation of that person who will be able to establish what is not well defined. So, and I agree with that in short, you could also translate your replica "honor to anyone's faith". However, if you would... , so there is no law that can regulate and eliminate any risk because a loan, and someone thinks that this is actually a financial loan in fact, such a service to which such a type of credit is given, is one type of credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It comes from the Latin word cred, I believe. Unfortunately, there is no faith that cannot be let down. But it stays, so it's good that this is in the first reading, that here's the promoter said that all the quality warnings that I think are all on track and with good intentions and will be included and included in his final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76241	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club will speak for the respected Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. First a few positive remarks and several critical ones. It is good to create a legal framework for any financial transactions that are vital to the functioning of the system. Accordingly, it is necessary to support the need to regulate such a part of the financial business legally. It is also good that it goes in two readings to hear and remarks that can improve that legal framework. I don't like the law bearing the title of the factoring bill. I don't think it's even nice for an ear to be called Croatian by foreign word. It can be found, it's rich in Croatian, it has everything. He doesn't need substitute for these terms. So here's the suggestion. Perhaps there is still time to change that name of the law itself. Factoring nice this proudly sounds, but what's really factoring? How do you define factoring? In this law, it is defined as an alternative form of financing of business entities through the purchase of claims. If a regulated system is to the extent necessary for normal functioning then such a bill should not at all. You shouldn't even factoring. But at a time when it does not function most fundamentally in economic activity and this is a mutual payment, then we need to imagine how to compensate for various substitutes what is normal if the goods are delivered or the service that these goods or services must be paid. But we are always in society, not including anyone else, it's a simple process, it brings us a modern market, it brings us a modern view of an economy that separates from that real real-world economy, so it introduces all new concepts, it comes from reality, and it actually gives us such tangible, real scientific disciplines create something unreal and in everything they try to find a variety of substitutes for normal economic phenomena. How to replace bank credit activity? We can do with a thousand new ways but if the system works then none of that new way needs to be done. What little is missing under this law, it's technically correct, it can be made with a few suggestions later I'm going to make up but what does it actually get? The most fundamentally, it is known in the economy that the most important influence is the cost of work, re-compromised but today the re-promaterial is almost everyone's price, the price of work depends but the cost of funding is an important item that affects the competitiveness of the economy and so is the Croatian economy. Many are neglecting, and the Croatian economy is uncompetitive and not competitive enough because of the high cost of funding. Is this factoring law going to make the cost of financing business entities in Croatia better or worse? Does this alternative way of financing business entities come into a more favourable position or a more unfavourable position? It can't be read from the law, but it can't be predicted. If someone chooses to finance by factoring how much will it cost? Will that be more than interest credit? There's no analysis. And without such an analysis, we can't even know the results of the effects and effects of this one of these laws. I'm not sure of either because it doesn't depend, it depends on a lot of factors, but I'm more confident that there will be a higher cost of financing to business entities through factoring than credit institutions and regular loans. This may temporarily heal the wound, but in the long run, every business entity will come into a more unfavourable situation. And the main objective should be to reduce the cost of financing each business entity because it is the only way to be more competitive and to go out eventually to increase its economic activity and thus to get the whole country out of the crisis. It is said that the objective of the adoption of the draft law is to ensure market stability and legal efficiency of factoring transactions and to contribute to a stronger regulation of that part of the financial market. It's nice to read, nice to hear, but it almost doesn't mean anything. What exactly is the goal of passing this law? If the aim is to reduce the cost of funding, then it would be acceptable, but this is the framework for improving the stability of the markets of the general thesis we can write.../The speaker is not understood. I'm also under the impression that I'm in an explanation of the concept that the term factor itself is not a well-chosen term. The factor is any legal person who, in accordance with the provisions of this law, has the right to provide factoring services. So the one who provides factoring services that legal person is called a factor. Let's call it a factor, so it's unacceptable. You can find a better term than a factor, a factor to me but it really doesn't fit into this kind of financial terminology. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Factoring is a financial service buying the subject of factoring. And then in the following article goes the explanation of what is the subject of factoring, it would be more logical if the subject of factoring was explained in the text of terms and to explain before the term is mentioned and already the subject of factoring are existing, it is more logical to be an explanation of the subject factoring before and then mention it. And not in Article 4, we have that it's a factoring object and no one knows what the factoring is yet. It's not until the next one explains it. For transfer purposes, the subject matter of the factoring can be demonstrated by an account or other correction according to etc., etc. a which is another means of proof of delivery of goods or services other than invoices. If there is one then let it be written which is it, but whether any of them may be delivered goods or services not to issue an account, they must not. Therefore, the main document is the account. If it's mentioned that it could possibly be some other document so we won't leave room for someone to invent. It shall indicate which other than the invoice may be the document as the subject of evidence or the need for transfer which can be demonstrated that the goods or services other than the invoice have been delivered, which. Is that a factory sheet, if we write it down, but even a paper can't go without an account. Perhaps when the subject of factoring is one or more future investigations, I don't think the notion of future investigations is sufficiently explained. The question is also raised by studying this law whether the future demand, the search that already exists and has not come, is whether a future inquiry that does not exist but which will not come and has not arrived, is what the future demand is, should be defined, so perhaps it means the legislator of the law that it has already been created and that it has not arrived and that it has neither reached nor failed, so it should decide what the future claims are. In the event of a request for a particular claim against a particular debtor, it shall be considered to include, as stated in Article 6(2). If it's doubtful then it can't be understood that it's true. It's not good if you suspect it's forbidden to drive with Tesla, then you can't drive with Tesla. If you suspect that the search doesn't exist, then it can't exist, then it has to be checked, while there's doubt, it can't be acknowledged, and it really doesn't belong in this context, it doesn't fit. So, whether the search is justified or not, if there is any doubt, it must not be considered to include demand. For the legal validity of the subject matter of factoring this article, it is not decided whether the legal basis of future demand has already been established at the time of the conclusion of the factoring contract or whether the demand is conditional or unconditional. We think that this is also a little too broad a term and that we would not want to give freedom that if the search is conditional and unconditional not to affect legal validity, it would have to be a little bit more detailed, which affects the legal validity. Where an article 10 is a technical matter, paragraph 2 shall, in the case of a non-payment of factoring subject matter, be a factor in addition to the rights set out in the guarantee referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, have the right to request from suppliers. I think he should indicate who he has the right to claim from, not only does he have the right to claim, so he doesn't ask third parties who didn't participate, so he throws in whom he has the right to claim. In Article 13(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The factoring agreement or the last written agreement between the factors and the bearer may agree that the Factoring fee, administrative compensation, interest or other contractual, determined costs instead of the supplier are borne by another person who is the cost bearer, which person? Another person again. It is necessary to define who everything can be instead of the supplier, to define. In Article 18, the factoring business can only be performed and listed three, factoring of a company from another country, the company factoring branch of a factoring company and then in paragraph 2 may also be credit institutions, so why are they not already pre-installing, why other than them and credits if these can then deliver credit as a fourth, and not particularly place it that besides them can and anyone else. The basic capital factoring of companies cannot be less than 1 million kuna. I think it's about the job he's doing, that he's supposed to be a share capital greater than a million kunas in terms of what society is doing. This Regulation shall enter The Agency will decide on the application within 56 days of the day of the applicant. Don't take 56 days, I said that once, please put 60 days, not 56, 57 or 55. If the Agency does not decide on a request within the time limit set out in paragraph 2 of this Article, it shall be deemed to have given its consent. This is too dangerous a thesis. It can be deafened and is always considered, it cannot be considered, unless the agency has issued its consent, that it has issued its consent. This should not remain in the law, and if the agency does not respond within the time limit, let it bear the responsibility for not answering, not answering, and then it is deemed to have given consent. Here, I'm running out of time, unfortunately, but through which replica I'm going to add something else about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76243	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first reported to Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Maric, I'm again invited by this language tourism that you've presented and represented several times during your debate. I'd like to draw your attention to a few facts. First of all, all I've heard so far is a grudge on the subject of factoring and that we, from the language wealth of the Croatian language, agree that the Croatian language is rich, should find another term. However, I have never heard the suggestion of that second term. On the other hand, there is a whole series of foreigners in the economy, and even the very name of the economy and the economic activity of business,... investments, good will investment, audit,..., deposit, check, these are all foreigners that are incorporated in Croatian and we are too engaged in such topics, and I don't believe that this is what we threw ourselves into when we passed, say, the Law on Financial Conglomerates, the Law on Arbitrage, the Law on Deposit Insurance, the Law on Auditing, the Law on Verification, so all of the aliens again. Here, fellow Shuker will forgive me, it's my profession, and I could do it on many of your discussions, so I didn't, I was decent enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76245	The replica matches Goran Maric. Here you go. Don't throw your friend Shucker away. A fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76246	Dear colleague, I have indicated everything that doesn't seem logical and unnatural to me. Here, try to repeat the word referred to in paragraph 12, Article 2, is a factor of every person who, in accordance with the provisions of this law, has the right to provide factoring service. Open a dictionary of foreign words and read the word "factor" meaning nowhere can you read that the word factor means the right person who behaves the factoring business. There's no such thing as introducing a new word that doesn't exist, and doesn't it sound unnatural to you to be a legal person? It sounds unnatural, and I'm even much more tolerated at the factoring law, but the fact that the legal person who does the factoring factor's work is a factor, that it's called in the law, it's a little bit off-limits, something still serves me as a servant, so it's a little off-limits. So even these technical things that I've been doing, it's state law, but good fellow Mandic said, it takes not 45 minutes for a good law to be, it's supposed to be discussed in this way for six hours, if we're going to... well. But not because now you don't open a debate at this level that you've opened, why are you now discussing the word factoring, let's see if that's a good word or not, whether it fits or not, is that a factor that needs to stay in the law? So the biggest problem in the entire Croatian economy stems from a lack of understanding of the law and when someone reads that he is a factor, he will not understand what he writes. Yesterday, we were talking about the Pre-curricular Contracts Act. to interpret each day they seek people who enforce the law, interpret the law. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] If the law It doesn't have to be interpreted. [[/Intruder Stazic: Thank you. Time's up.]] We need laws that don't need to be interpreted, that every man who reads it understands it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76247	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76248	Dear fellow Maric, yes, the question is, is it language purgatory or pure nonsense? A lot of people know English, but they don't seem to understand Croatian. And this law, they say, did not offer an appropriate term, an appropriate word. Why wouldn't that law be called the Repurchasing Law? Simplest. What's with the factoring? Look at the dictionaries economically read everything. I did that thing last night. This is simple, this can't happen, it's not language cleanliness. I agree that we cannot clear the Croatian language from it, this is incomprehensible, that means that the word is embellished in Croatian speech. Is that it? We need those words that were used in Croatian speech. Factoring, so every woman on the salary says, factoring, everyone's saying, these days just factoring, factoring. This is sorry, this is... this is stupid. This is inappropriate to keep on talking about this law and you are now defending that, without another word, it is impossible. This law, interpreting all that is written inside, simply should be said, insufficient, sitting, nothing else is possible and this law cannot be adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. And a point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76249	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76250	Comrade Vuksic, you're right. Economic termology has long known the term of... claims, but otherwise a financial world that is a little off the norm of traditional economic science likes to impose in this society a termology that no one understands so that under this termology would underline a lot of things that people under misunderstanding suffer. So remember the word forvarding, so who knows, raises some kind of loan, forvarding. Lombard credit, it can't, one in a thousand might know who's doing it. That's why no one can change a helicopter now, so of course it doesn't need to be changed or invented. But why we make up for the already existing Croatian word. And the Croatian language should not be cleaned but should not be polluted, and we are polluting it with this. Apparently, some people are trying to take over the search for someone under the simplest surgery. I've got one thing I didn't mean to say right now, but I'll say it. The fellow cannot collect his claim, and then the white knight takes over the claims, pays it, of course gets a big fee on it, and that white knight collects that claim immediately because the baseball bats work after that takeover. Well, we're not for baseball bats. We're for the law. And a bill like this encourages baseball bats, and I wouldn't want us to have that kind of company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76251	And the last replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76252	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Maric, our deceived farmer knows all the terms, but listening to you but also reading the article 6th future demand the last part i.e. the third part of "for the legal validity of the subject matter of factoring as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, it is not decided whether the legal basis of future demand has already been established at the time of the conclusion of the factoring contract or whether the demand is conditional or unconditional". Why am I saying that? We did a study of the stock exchange, namely you said earlier that there had to be an account issued for some goods to be sold by factoring. There may be goods in the reference warehouse and our farmer may trade in forward contracts, but that is why a stock exchange is needed. I remember still the finance minister was Mr. Schucker, so they talked about the guarantee fund just so that a storm of agricultural goods could be made, and I think it should be imperative to help our farmer not only through the factoring but also through the stock market so that he could trade term contracts and not only about what I was talking about the warehouse but also about what's green on the agricultural surface, and that's where those who give him fertilisers are already installing him with 30, 40% if they know he can't be in debt. But if he could sell an appointment contract or future demand, then he could do a good job. That's what would suit our farmer. But when you see an article like this that must certainly be done by Mr. Lalovec, because I think it leaves one ambiguity and I think it should be decided, not written in this article that it is not decided. I don't think that's good. Such legal solutions don't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76253	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76254	I have just indicated to my colleague the indetermination of future searches that they need to be more clearly defined. The biggest problem of Croatian society is unclear laws, and the laws should be the simplest, most legible, most understandable and no problem in application. And there's no reason why such laws can't be passed. But we're specialists in making vague laws. In Switzerland they give the shepherd to read the bill, if he does not understand it the shepherd will not be brought. Everyone has to understand the law. And it's no wonder they tell us that better not to know how the laws and the real sausages are passed, that it's better not to know. There's no law involving a lecturer or a cursor. Well, it's a law worth years relating to the fate of the Republic of Croatia, not just this one, that experts and linguistics do not participate in it and that something should be done that should not be changed. So many grammatical errors, so many language errors, so many stylish wrong figures, so many unnecessary explanations, so vague. Imagine saying article 54 for the supervisory condition that a person has a good reputation, an appropriate professional qualification, an experience for supervision. So the condition isn't this, the condition must be clear, prescribed, as it's forbidden to drive over 0,5 proms, it can't be in a larger or smaller quantity of alcohol. These must not be definitions in the law, and they are the basis for abuse. What does a proper expert cook mean? Who's going to define that for me? What's that professionally prepared? That you're born and you don't know anything or that you're an academic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76255	Thank you. It's 13.27 p.m., it's the ideal time to announce the break and proceed at 15.00 p.m. with individual debates. Party at 13.27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76256	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] An individual debate, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76257	Here, thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is one reason why I came forward for this debate because I was surprised by the fact that a large number of and even responsible persons in business facilities are not aware that in their business they can use factoring, and then we can think that among the citizens and the knowledge of the general meaning of this concept is still... and, of course, among that general population, we expect to be able to encourage a larger number of entrepreneurs to start certain entrepreneurial activities. For this reason, for the sake of public interest, but also to bring closer to everyone the meaning of the adoption of this law, I think that perhaps simpler words should describe briefly what this is about. So, factoring is basically a financial job that is technically purchased for certain claims, I don't know, for sales goods or a service done before payment is made. For example. if you sell your product and expect to charge in, say, 90 days, and you need funds you can immediately cash your claim in a certain way. In doing so, you are bound by a contract to pay the company that is factoring a certain fee or interest. So here, this is how much I'm familiar with the practice of getting 70 or 90% of the funds right away, and 10 to 30 when, therefore, it comes to a charge with certain fees, interest or already another form of benefit from factoring society. So, from factoring, I think it's necessary to say that to explain why it's being passed, this law is extraordinary. Why? It bridges the many barriers small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have in their business in particular. Small and medium-sized enterprises are faced with the risk of collecting their claims. Often, these entrepreneurs, when they talk to them, point out that when they do business in a narrow environment, they face a high risk of billing their claims. There is an extremely good instrument, therefore, to reduce that risk when they are dealing with an unknown business partner they have never done business with before and which they may not even engage in if such a financial instrument did not exist. Factoring is an instrument through which these small and medium-sized enterprises can be tackled and the problem of indifference. They often can't get a classic loan because they don't have the right... so they're not creditworthy in this classical sense. The quality of the claim, i.e. the quality of the person who owes the company, and not only the companies, is therefore essential in this legal business, while the classical loan examines the improvement of the company that is taking the funds. Furthermore, the advantage of factoring is that the rapid cashing of demand improves the liquidity of business,... the problem is still the credit ability and improvement of the companies involved, and thus the profitability of the business itself. It should be said that the factoring so far, my impression, and the impression of a lot of the people I talked to, was not sufficiently considered in practice and applied in practice as an alternative to existing financial instruments. Probably one of the reasons for this is that there was no appropriate legal regulation so far that would create conditions for its full application. For example, when we compare some figures with some countries, in Croatia, for example, the traffic of factoring was around 2.2 billion euros, while in Belgium it was 38.2 billion euros, and in Greece 14.7 billion. Therefore, there is both the space and the need for this instrument to be applied in Croatia, especially as an important instrument for liquidity reduction. It is also of great importance to this export instrument as an export factor. Therefore, we are coming to an improved possibility of business of small and medium-sized enterprises with abroad, as their risk of determining..., a business entity abroad, is being dealt with by these export financing problems, the risk of political risks and the collection of claims. Thus, by using this instrument, exporters can greatly facilitate current financial operations. Therefore, this should be welcomed by the adoption of this legislative framework, which really regulates this extremely important problem here. Regulation is therefore necessary also because of the growing volume of factoring business, but also because of its positive impact on the economy. As I have already mentioned, there are reductions in indifference, as well as in order to prevent abuse. I primarily mean prevention of money laundering, but also ensuring that companies that deal with factoring do not take advantage of doing these jobs for illegal activities, fraud and others. Now the adoption of this law will bring about the business of companies dealing with factoring in an extremely detailed manner, so a minimum base capital of one million kuna will be introduced. I'd grade even, it was... on that amount, I'd estimate that it was a well-hit measure. Detailed monitoring and risk management is prescribed here and a detailed manner of approval of board members and supervisory boards is regulated. With regard to this regulation of the appointment and approval of members of the Board of Directors and Supervisors, I might also make some remarks coming from the expert public, as well as from legal persons who have been dealing with factoring so far. It is now prescribed that members of the Supervisory Board must have adequate, therefore, long-term supervisory experience in the monitoring of company factoring. So far, factoring societies, which are not related, for example. with large banks, it will be very difficult for them to find such personnel and, of course, the involvement of such experts will cost them. At the same time, the party factoring society will now have a significantly easier approach to our market so that individual entities involved in these affairs are now concerned that such strict provisions could make it difficult for smaller businesses to operate anyway. This could, however, lead to them registering their business to another EU country where they are not such strict conditions or closing their business. Of course, such an event certainly is of no interest to us, and I think that perhaps we should consider easing these conditions in some way. He spoke about the conditions in the environment, but I failed to see in detail whether there was a detailed partnership with other legislation, and I would certainly point out that it would not be good if the law puts in a more unfavourable position of Croatian society or party, especially if we are talking about our environment, let's say Hungary, Slovenia, Italy. I think there may be room for a certain mitigation if we compromise especially with Slovenia or so some countries where there is a danger that Croatian factoring companies will move business. Regarding the conditions for the appointment of the administration and the supervisory board, he said they were very, very strict, even somewhat stricter in some elements than it was set up under the Law on Banks for the Administrations and Supervisory Committees of the Banks. It would certainly, as has already been said, express certain reserves according to a fairly wide set of conditions where very... so decide the body that decides to monitor to deny consent for the appointment of administrations and supervisory committees, let's say what has already been said when a good reputation is mentioned, which is a very broad and arbitral term. And I also think it would be good to talk about violations and criminal acts that these offences and crimes are explicitly stated. That would be very good for legal certainty and for ensuring equality for everyone under the law. In conclusion, I would say that this law should be welcomed, that the adoption of a law that regulates this issue and has waited too long, I believe that it will introduce order on this area that regulates and creates conditions and for the greater application of this financial instrument, which should certainly be welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76258	Thank you. Damir Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76259	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a few of my personal thoughts about the factoring bill or better to say than shopping. So I'm not going to talk about the need for language harmonisation right now, so we're probably going to adapt to a lot of things in life, and even to this, even if it would be necessary the next day to adjust everything to our frameworks and conditions. But the proposal for a factoring law actually regulates the rights and obligations of companies that buy out other companies' claims and that is a fact and it exists today, yesterday, several years ago and long ago in the EU. The term factoring can be defined as the sale of the right of claim to an institution dealing with the collection of claims. The financing of customer claims often interferes with factoring. The factoring is that the factoring company or buyer of the claim actually buys certain claims from customers of its committee by the percentage of their nominal value. So strictly speaking, factoring is not the form of the loans given to some, here again is one foreigner, with collateral insurance, but a complete purchase of committee claims. Factoring how it defines it and the proposal of this law represents the purchase of a request with a regression or without the regress of a company. Simplifiedly, if you are the owner of a company engaged in the production or provision of services from another point, deliver an appropriate quantity of products or services with an obligation to make payments, for example. by March 31st, and you need money right away and you can't wait for market conditions, then contact factoring companies. Factoring company will pay you for example. 97% of the price for the goods or services delivered, but then on March 31st, the full amount will be paid to them, not to you. This would be the most complex and simplest clarification of business factoring. Examples of the legal definition of factoring can be found in the national legislation of certain European countries, so Germany as an example of a well-organised market, a factoring market that works and on which there are clear and certain rules. Factoring has become a regulated industry since 2008, and the reason is the growing importance of factoring industry in the country, especially for financing small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. its liquidity. Factoring is also regulated in Italy, Austria and Hungary. Factoring service providers are currently not regulated in the Republic, not regulated in the Republic of Croatia which creates legal uncertainty and in some types of factoring transactions. Given the trend in the growth of factoring services in the Republic of Croatia and the risk of factoring companies that are not members of the group of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia are not covered by appropriate supervision. It is necessary to regulate their business in the legal regulation of factoring. Despite the fact that Croatia has so far had no law regulating this area in Croatia, this activity is carried out by credit institutions when the supervision is carried out by the Croatian National Bank and companies registered for factoring operations when the supervision is carried out by the HANF. On 31 December 2012, 16 factoring companies were active in the Republic of Croatia, dominated by the domestic factoring of 97%, which is the subject of the purchase of claims from customers from the Republic of Croatia, which characterizes the right to regress 77% of the total demand factors. The total income of companies registered for the performance of factoring operations in 2012 was estimated at around 731 million kuna and expenditures amounted to 621 million kuna. The company's core position is 7th place per representation in the financial sector, i.e. 5th place per representation in the financial non-banking sector. The company's factors in the Republic of Croatia were achieved in 2012. 87 million kuna profits after tax. Compared to 2006 as we have heard several times about the activities of factoring the property of these companies, the factoring of companies was higher by 5.5 billion kuna because 332% is seen as a growing trend of assets in the period from 206 to 2009. In 2010, it stagnated and fell by about 18% and rose again in '11. and '12. The year when the share of factoring companies in the non-banking system took part with 7.18 billion kuna, and that information has already been heard several times. The factoring services are not regulated at European Union level or there is no definition of factoring at European Union level, so factoring is mentioned as a service in several directives that regulate credit and other financial institutions. Given the trend in factoring services in Croatia and the risks of factoring companies that are not members of the group of credit institutions are not covered by proper supervision, it is necessary to regulate their business. Therefore, the adoption of this law achieves greater stability and increased security and transparency of factoring transactions as well as ensuring quality and appropriate supervision of this area. Factoring is an interesting product for each company's liquidity indicators, especially for maintaining daily liquidity. Therefore, if legal entities have sufficient space in margins in advance, they should calculate a factoring service which is still not expensive on short maturity deadlines and ensure liquidity and further use of money with which it is possible to compensate for a possible loss in margin. However, in factoring society should not come too late, when the financial situation is already critical and with a non-quality claim, because factoring of society is not an obligor for cloudy businesses which you have failed to collect for example for a longer period of time. This proposal regulates the contract on factoring, rights and obligations of business factoring entities, conditions for establishment, business and termination of company factoring, methods and conditions for cross-border performance, reporting and supervision of factoring operations, risk management. It is also important to welcome the fact that the business of companies whose incomes will be measured by hundreds of millions of kunas will finally be regulated. The minimum basic capital of a million kuna will be introduced, detailing the reporting of supervisory, risk management and regulating the way members of the board of directors and supervisory board will be approved. However, this last break is about the fact that legislators and companies operating independently outside banking groups, as a colleague said earlier, want to stabilise the market and the legal efficiency of factoring transactions, as stated by the legislator as the aim of passing legislation, may have been a little bit reregulated by the legislator. Some points of the factoring business law are almost even with banking. For example, mandatory two-member administrations and a three-member supervisory board shall be introduced where members of the administration must have experience and conditions of at least three years on factoring or credit institutions in factoring operations, or five years in factoring operations. And there are also too many conditions for the supervisory board and very few such people can be found in Croatia, or such personnel can be found in Croatia. So in fact, it's kind of convenient for banks and some foreign companies, independent factoring companies. Many of them have also decided to take a radical step, and business will reregister to another country, e.g. Slovenia and do business here as non-residents. And in the end, I would say that it may be necessary to simplify the legal framework and regulate the details of those that can be so defined. In view of the fact that the business of factoring Article 3 of the Law is governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations, it is actually factoring and financial services, Articles 4, 5 and 13 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, which is almost as well as banking services. A factoring of companies is governed by the modified regulations of the Company Act. There are still three misunderstandings here. Article 20 shall prescribe a new factoring agency and grant approval to a factoring company in the order to be entered in the court register. Secondly, the Financial Services Supervisory Agency, as far as I understand this proposal, will set out in more detail the conditions and method of carrying out company factoring activities, so it will continue to monitor, Article 21(7). And the maturity of the factoring subject may not be more than a day of redemption by the factoring of society for more than a year, Article 21(4), exceptionally Article 21(5), the factoring business may also be longer in the case of export financing on the basis of the discount buy-in and without the regress of long-term inaccessible investigations secured by financial instruments. But also in case a state appears as a believer in the subject matter of factoring. As part of the Financial Functions Supervisory Agency, it may be possible to carry out the whole work that would be carried out by this agency, so one or the other will actually have control, that is to say, only the proposal and approval of factoring items within a longer period which may be granted to the State may need to be allowed under the same conditions and circumstances and units of local self-government. There, thank you very much. I, of course, support this job because it is developing in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76260	Thank you, too. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues So we have heard a lot in the debates of the club about what factoring is and how factoring is regulated in other countries above all Croatian environments. As it was written to us in the very opening arguments when this Law was passed. Factoring is an alternative form of financing of business entities through the purchase of claims in the Republic of Croatia credit institutions and companies registered for factoring activities doing factoring tasks. There's been a lot of talk about language toothpicks and let me have a few more references to that subject, and hopefully we're past it then. So, I don't want to say that I'm in favour of introducing aliens into Croatian and I can't say that it's the right practice. However, we do not have a clear alternative and that is what the problem is. We can introduce someone as a new coin is said, but the purchase of a claim by me has not clearly defined or too limited the concept of factoring that does not necessarily mean it. What the distinguished colleagues and colleagues have not mentioned so far in the debate is that there are two forms of factoring, which is so-called. The island and continental, or the notion of factoring in the United States, is something different than the way it is implemented in Europe, which is also an interesting fact to mention in this debate. Unfortunately, with the economy and the economic processes, we often have the bonding of aliens. Why is it so we can go into analysis now, but it's not the subject of this debate. Probably because right from the Anglo-Saxon environments where these aliens came from, they'd have developed to say a modern way of doing business, especially financially, so we've got a whole series of aliens that I've already mentioned, business, greenfield investments, good, and that's just an investment that's already a foreigner. We have our word investment. The question is, why don't we use it? Either the audit is also a stranger or a deposit. We have the Croatian word deposit, exchange, foreign currency or if we are going to make a foreign currency, etc. etc. So, if we want to insist on language purism, we could talk about it, but that's not the main thing for me is not the measure of this debate at all. The criterion of this debate is to regulate a relatively new one, although a segment in Croatian monetary business although I would not say it is new. So, I will repeat only one more time that English, therefore as a source of word factoring if we will not take that as Latin, German, Italian, Czech, Macedonian, Polish, Slovenian. So almost all the countries around us recognize that term that way. The differences are, therefore, minimal and, above all, when incorporating into language so that some expressions may be in the spirit of language have changed. So, factoring in the Republic of Croatia exists although so far it has not been legally regulated. So we have data that on 31.12.2012 there were 16 factoring companies. In 2012, following the taxation of the 87.19 million kuna profits were recorded by these companies. Their structure is also very interesting. Therefore, 15 companies of these 16 businesses as well as a limited liability company while only one company acted as a shareholder. The structure of their assets is also interesting, but I would not like to be held back, as colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned it in previous discussions. The fact that this segment of monetary business in the Republic of Croatia has so far not been regulated has generated legal uncertainty in factoring transactions, i.e. it has been based more on certain aspects of good business, good practice than on real legal regulations. However, factoring services as we have heard are not regulated even at EU level. Some directives mention it, but they do not go into deeper regulation anywhere. There are examples of legal definitions of factoring in the national legislation of some EU countries, but it is far from uniform, far from unique, whether we start from the very definition of factoring to the very fact that it is solved. Some of the countries that have already legally regulated this segment are, for example, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Austria, so perhaps even an Austrian example or German example would be closest to us since we often try to introduce our legislation and some legal solutions from these environments. Of course, the very fact that this segment has not been legally regulated so far has put the supervision problem, supervision of institutions that have done factoring activities on credit institutions that have done these tasks, so the Croatian National Bank has done so while other companies registered for factoring activities have been controlled by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. However, what should be pointed out is that due to the absence of legal regulation of the factoring operations mentioned in the companies offering factoring services and supervised by the agencies, credit institutions were not subject to licensing, management approval, minimum capital rules, qualifying share, reports and similar rules. That's what this law is about to change. The purpose of adopting this law is at least clear to me, and it is to regulate this area, to encourage further development of this activity and to increase legal certainty in factoring transactions. And the ultimate goal of course is to ensure market stability and legal efficiency of factoring transactions. I think this law is a good example of the Ministry of Finance's initiative to identify, therefore, the existence of a problem, i.e. it recognized new market circumstances and sought to regulate them through the legal way, thus ensuring additional legal certainty. The very fact that on the Committee of Resolution, therefore on the Committee on Finance, this Law, I think it has passed the bill unanimously that it sends enough message that we are, therefore, all of us recognize the importance of regulating this segment of monetary business. So finally, I would say that, once again, it is a great example of a legitimate initiative by the ministry that recognises the need to regulate a relatively new phenomenon on the Croatian financial market and, of course, it has my support. And I invite other colleagues and colleagues to support him as well. What we can possibly leave as a misunderstanding, i.e. to think about the applicant, are Articles 4 and 5, which have already been mentioned in the discussion on the board as not clear enough but this is what I think this debate will also be a good basis for a clearer definition of factoring activities, i.e. this will result in a clear definition of the articles mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76262	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Maria Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76263	Thank you, Vice President. I agree that the metertorum of this debate is not the very term of factoring, but by respecting all your efforts to defend us in some way, to bring it closer and to justify it personally, I cannot accept it in this House of Commons in which, through history, we have been known from Kukuljević, Sakcinski and then further fought against the foreign language, against Hungarian and German, that some MPs would then in the House and dumped as history tells us and now some small door enters us to express our language in this House. In fact, don't get me wrong I'm not against foreign languages because they don't say for nothing that a man is worth as much language as he speaks and I'm certainly for English and German, even if it was Chinese, it doesn't matter, it's important that a man speaks as many languages as possible. However, I believe that in this High House and in our acts and laws where it is not necessary not to introduce foreigners. And I'll always represent it. And that there's no alternative, there's alternatives. Languageians could certainly find an adequate expression of factoring as a substitute. Otherwise, we're essentially accepting this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76264	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, colleagues, first of all, for the replica. What I've missed telling my colleagues before that they've replicated right about this language term, so don't realize that I'm defending this term. I'm just saying we don't have a better one right now. I would also like to hear suggestions from other linguists, meaning that they give us an alternative, but buying debts or demand simply narrows down too much and then we're actually losing a factoring measure that might be defined differently in the future, or we'll see what it looks like in another reading. We've got a lot of strangers, I think I've already listed them, investment, audits, conglomerates, deposits, checks, foreign exchanges, so we've got the Financial Conglomerates Act, arbitration, deposit insurance, audit, check. So these are all aliens for which some of us have an alternative but have never been the subject of debate. I would like to have a Croatian word, too, without further ado, but I think that because we have been engaged so much in this language problem, I hope that the profession will first of all also have something to say by the linguists or croatists. A foreign language in the Croatian Parliament yes, but it was Latin before, and therefore never Hungarian, never German. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76266	Thank you, too. Peja Grbin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76267	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear classmates and colleagues. Well, I didn't think so, but I'm gonna have to force the opportunity and I'm gonna start with two, three words related to the title. Factoring is a term used in almost unchanged form in Catalan, Castilan, French, Italian, Bulgarian, Belarusian, Macedonian etc., and the reason is that it is a term that has the same meaning in all these countries, and when we enter into business conversation then we do not have to explain and do not have to translate what we wanted to say because already by mentioning the factoring everyone involved in legal traffic was he from Croatia or elsewhere knows what it is about. We're right to have a whole series of words like that. One of the most famous who no one thinks is foreign origin is the word of a mortgage. We have a deposit as a term in Croatian law, but the deposit and mortgage are not the same. Every stock on the property is a mortgage. It's also not every ransom claim factoring. And that's exactly what this law is all about. And why am I saying that? This law is essentially an alternative form of financing of business entities through the purchase of claims. This law does not define what a ransom claim is. The purchase of claims, i.e. any transfer of demand in the Croatian legal order, has been regulated for centuries by the Law on Mandatory Relations and before that by the Austrian General Civil Code. Hamurabi's code already had provisions concerning the ransom of claims. This law regulates something completely different. This law regulates the situation when a person engages in the ransom of claims as his activity. This law therefore regulates the activity itself, the conditions under which we can deal with such an activity. So by buying out claims with a view to achieving financial benefits for themselves as entrepreneurs and of course supervision, etc. So use and find some other term end of this that's already common throughout the world I don't think would be appropriate. But let's get back to the idea. So, as I've already told the base, the basis for the adoption of this law, the basis for this institute is the Law on Mandatory Relations in its part, in its head that regulates the transfer of demand. The subject-matter of the factoring was derived from the basis of the supply of goods or services by business entities in the country or abroad. Now, this law has taken one existing provision and an existing institute treating it as an activity and regulated it. My colleagues talked about it before me, but we have to do it again. We have had a factoring service so far in the Republic of Croatia. The question will be why we are now passing the law, so simply because we had a large market where big profits were made, where there were huge cash flows, and we didn't have a good quality regulation of that market. With this law, we have regulated the participants of the legal factoring business, we have defined the factoring contract, the content, the mandatory content of this contract, we have defined who can provide factoring services, so we have established the status provisions for a company that deals with factoring operations, and here I would particularly welcome the provision of this law which regulates that the factoring company should not carry out any other activity. In addition, in order to avoid misleading service recipients, I also support the provisions of the law relating to the obligation to obtain consent from the Agency before a factoring activity can be entered in the court register at all, and also the obligation to obtain consent before a question is entered in the name of the company, i.e. the name factoring. Furthermore, this law and it is also in my opinion good, very strict supervision has been introduced. So surveillance will be carried out by the agency, and the Agency will be able to impose very serious measures, such as recommendations, warnings, the removal of illegality, but also specific supervisory measures, and what is particularly important, the abolition of the authorisation for work. This is to be supported because any financial service which could have serious consequences for its recipient must be very closely regulated. However, I will return for a moment to the part relating to the conditions for who can participate and who can provide factoring services. I welcome the fact that the Agency will give consent to both appointments and administrations and supervisory committees that, without the Agency's consent, it will not be able to acquire or change the status or change the share of society. However, Article 47 of the Law is problematic. Article 47 of the Law stipulates who may be a member of the Administration. My colleagues have already mentioned this, but we need to pay special attention to this. The termins used and the extent of the restrictions for someone to become a member of the administration are too wide. For example. We have an appointment that a person who might be a member of the administration must have a good reputation. What does it mean to have a good reputation? If we're talking about such a term, by my judgment, it should be defined in law. But what I find much more problematic is the relationship between point 5 and point 6 of Article 1 47. If you look at paragraph 5, it's prescribed which crimes, if committed by a person, it can't be a member of the administration. And if we look at this, we'll see that it's for example. Someone could commit a crime of murder and murder out of kindness, as a property crime that is not prescribed here, and become a member of a factoring company management. On the other hand, we have in point 6(1) of the provision that particularly serious infringements are considered infringements of the laws governing taxes. In the tax-regulating law, we also have a violation for a person who hasn't taken an account from the store. So this is how we prescribed it here if I don't take the bill from the store I committed a tax offense and I can't be a member of a factoring company management, but if I committed murder out of kindness then I can. I would ask that we regulate the issue here in another way, to tie it to sanctions, means, with the length of the penalty that has been prevented for a particular crime or sentence or a combination thereof, with particular reference to certain offences that will always be excluded, in order to achieve legal certainty and to level the criteria for persons who will be able to be members of a factoring company management. Moreover, to be clear, it is a law which, in my opinion, is very good, which has well regulated this area and it is a law that needs to be supported because, regardless of what the market has been up to now, I think our obligation as a state is our obligation as a legislator to regulate each such a large market, determine who can participate in it and who will oversee this participation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76268	Thank you, too. And last reported for the individual, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think I can say freely that we all agree in principle on this law. Everyone looks at it in their own way, but the key thing is whether we're going to call it the Factoring Act or we're going to call it Croatian, as it really is, and that's the law on ransoming claims. However, this law should be viewed with two aspects. One is good that the law has been passed to define more clearly the rules of play and behaviour in one segment of financial activity, however, it should also be concluded that this is only one of the ways in which the financial industry is trying to sell its goods, and that is money. And that's just a fact. So let's go back 10 years and more back, then let's remember that they were operational and financial leasing, and then as the crisis started, as payment problems started, then there was a more intense story about factoring, about buying out claims, but as the factoring activity grew, it points to something else, and that's what nobody here wanted to say today, and that's the structure of the Croatian economy. Unfortunately, the Croatian economy is low-capitalised and most of these business, economics, whatever you want to call them, entities, are unable to obtain credit, and they are not even able to raise credit according to those models a, b, a+c or as they stand where the state and in the past government and this government wants to be freed along with the CNB through the release of funds mandatory reserve by some part of the government's budget with HABOR of those entrepreneurs who have a certain perspective to survive. So because of such a way and the structure of the Croatian economy, it happened that entrepreneurs began to sell their claims to come up with money so that they could settle their obligations and that's the taste of the whole story. We can deal with this kind of smartness here. However, when you have a small company with 15 or 20 employees you can't get a loan, you have to make a commitment to the state or to someone else or they'll block you. You're simply looking for the last straw of salvation to come to financial resources to settle your obligations. This was also done by large companies that were the subject of pre-profit deals today but they did it because of the interests of business banks and that is the real truth, so the business banks practically bought from the state at some interest rate that was 5, 6 or 7% and thus helped them. But something else happened here. where these large companies, after the first purchase of the business bank's claim was carried out, failed to comply with their obligations to the cooperatives and then a series of several hundred cooperatives that did not receive paid their works or services or products that they had made. At the same time, they had a obligation to pay VAT because he had to pay his VAT, they had other obligations, and so they tried in principle to sell their claims something to sew, something to do. Since many have ended up better off not talking about it and it is good that the Government, the Ministry of Finance has decided to legalize a fact that exists. However, we have something else that unfortunately I think the CNB should have done that, in its domain and that's what you call it now, whether it's loans from a pole or under a car wiper but they're unfortunately where many Croats are caught, you'll get a credit, they've given their credit card or some other guarantee, unfortunately after a few months or a year they've found themselves in the pits of those who are allegedly not interestmakers, but also the last 100 and some financial institutions in trying to get rid of it with the CNB and it's not going to be punishable. I don't know if a colleague of Lalovac and the current team at the Ministry of Finance have any cure for it but it's very interesting that it's very difficult to get to those who share such loans. So we have on one side factoring that as much as it works in some legal frameworks, however, this is some quasmo factoring where citizens are given loans at an extremely high interest rate and you are witnessing daily family and human traumas of these people who unfortunately because of not what they wanted, but simply life has found them in the buds of those who gave money but under rather strange conditions and strange criteria and ultimately people are left with nothing. What I would like to say here is that these funds that are being settled by this Law on the buy-in of claims or factors are essentially short-term funding. Why? Well, because at this point, over 95% of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have no way of getting crafts. There's no way he's getting them from any of the banks. Why? Because in some good times they may have had wrong estimates and wrong investments, a lot of investments have gone and perhaps some wrong business estimates, a lot of money has gone to buy some private property. Is it houses, are they ships, are they cars, but unfortunately, everyone has become in the situation they are in. And today we have what we have, so in this law, nothing is practically controversial. The only recommendation to the Ministry of Finance is to define specific terms more clearly, to know exactly that there is simply no possibility that someone can interpret a term twofold. When a payment obligation arises, when it has arrived, when this is, when it is because it simply needs to be clearly defined so that when a contract is signed that there is no possibility of a different interpretation because if that happens then unfortunately we will have buried courts with these disputes and we will again make ourselves an expense. There is something else that fellow lawyers look a little wrongly at, however, in finance this so-called good reputation or good will both for leaders, for financial institutions, and for the assessment and assessment of economic operators, one very important category by international accounting standards is practically a third category by some quantity of measurement of performance and something, and in the financial world, the leaders of financial institutions are precisely aware of those who decide with them, which means a good reputation and that is a term that is in line with financial terminology and I don't think in any way we should move him out because all of these criminal provisions if someone was punished in one way or another, it all stands but a good reputation in the financial world knows exactly what it means. That provision should stand. So to conclude the law simply, so to say, the law is something that has been going on for years, the law just points us to the fact that the structure of the Croatian economy is what it is and that is why we have such macroeconomic indicators and the law will probably bring a little order into one market which at this point is a little bit of platitude so semi-inspired but only if we define clear terms then we will surely support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76270	Thank you, too. One replica, Mladen Novak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76271	Thank you very much. So, unlike some previous speakers, you are from this economic profession from the economic industry, and on a few occasions you said something about something that already exists with you saying it, it sounded like a banking sector to me, or financial institutions are too strong to do anything else, so let's not be left with it, but let's legislate it, though that instead of factoring it, let's say, what I do know, in my so-called layman's thinking could be called a law on someone, legalizing a racket. I don't see why there's even a need for something like this in a normally arranged state if there are some sanctions for not paying, or avoiding payments, I don't see why they would even reach for such a solution. The introduction of some Western institutions, Western countries, does not mean that all that comes from the West is that everything is well. In fact, we've been very often convinced that some of the things we bought that they allegedly bought from there are just too bad. And now I'm asking you one question, that's how you're a man who knows and practice. The workers of Gredela, they cannot charge their severances, they cannot even get paper based on what they would go to the FINA and carry out the commission on the Gredel's account. Can they reach for such a solution, for such a factoring? Yeah, just based on what? I mean, the state doesn't take care of it, and that's where we found the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76272	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76273	So to start with this last one, I'm sure there's going to be some factoring society that this sense is going to offer the workers of Gredell to buy out their claims and then with their great and good connections, and that's what I didn't want to say in my debate, make sure they get paid within some reasonable time, and they'll be counting interest, since you say there's no money now, then the risk is very high, and then the interest rate won't be or a discount of 5%, but it'll be 10% or 15%. It's just like when the unions tell the lawsuit because the government brings in and cancels the collective agreement overnight, and then they're sure they'll collect what they're asking for, and then they find one or two law firms, they write like that... they just change the name and last name and address, but they all write the same thing, they write a few thousand lawsuits, and they get the lawsuits, the government because of some pride and ego ministers won't go into a deal, and then those law firms charge a few million kuna in court costs, and people finally get what they're supposed to get again. However, you also well pointed out one fact that there are no payment problems in the state, then factoring probably as such would not exist because if you have a good relationship with your business bank, then if you have certain that you will collect certain claims, that will have a good job, your bank will therefore give you an advance for... funds, and you as a guarantee give her that contract on that job and it will be paid. So this simply points to some anomalies that occur in our home and is evident. Well, the finance minister has announced that he will go to all public companies and budget users to see if they all hold 30-day payment deadlines, so the problem is there, then you can think that in the rest of the real sector, so it's just one painful truth about the situation on the financial market in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76274	Thank you. And final on behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I thank you for today's debate, I must say that I've learned a lot today, especially about this part of linguisticism, means that it needs to be precisely defined, and I have to admit that I would even accept all your proposals, now we just have to agree on the name then. Is this then the purchase of the claim, is that then the purchase of the search, then no claims, because the law is talking about the claims, and then we talk about the claims, what kind of claims, whether they reach or not, complete or incomplete, then to be the full name of it and I have no problems at all, even personally, and even the fact that, let them be introduced into the law, but then we would like to communicate with both the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association to change all their names, these 23 years their business and their balances and their registrations and their registers, and as far as I'm concerned, there are no problems if the employers are willing to, because they will have to change the names in the court register and as much as I know certain balances of the companies, exactly. And not only that, but we're going to have to change the laws, as far as I'm aware of, and in the Credit Institutions Act stands quite literally defining the concept of factoring, meaning the Credit Institutions Act that's been adopted here long before, and in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering is defined factoring as a concept so that I absolutely agree with you, so I agree with you, but let's go thoroughly and that's what you said right here, and that's what and when we talked and I in the tax administration about certain terminology, there was also demand, search, then they said that, we need to clear the whole law, we need to call it right, not that in one place they're called claims, in another demand. And here I absolutely agree with you that the honourable representative Maric said, when the laws are being written and yet they are, is being adopted in this high home and should be respected in the full sense of the Croatian language and in such a way we should also have lecturing corrections and all that because yet this law is from what our citizens ultimately apply and in such a way that they use those words so that it is one practice that, if we so somehow agree to apply it, but in all cases legal regulations. I think it would be a good practice, not just for this law, but for everyone, I said, there's got to be a lot to change, and registration and balance, etc., etc. And it is likely that at the beginning they would not have had it today, but unfortunately, all these linguistic things have already been dragged into 23 years of business, so, here, if there are no problems with the Croatian Association of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce, who already in all their own ways use that terminology, I think we should, from this part, instruct them to notice some things in the High House and some things in the jargon as they are called, that we should change. I apologize when I entered this termology myself when I was also studying foreign trade and when I was in the contracts talking the title was... university professors were and in the textbook were just talking about factoring and that debut title was factoring and then explaining you have direct, indirect factoring, such factoring, and then eventually they put you somewhere in the brackets it was some sort of buy-in claim. So in that part where university professors write textbooks write books and teach students means we're talking about this factoring term, then you have question questions of this kind of factorin, etc. Watch out already through that part of the student's getting through these termologies, that I'm not telling you I remember right behind that factoring was forfeiting was being factoring, forfeiting was also going on. And I think if I say all of us agree together and this place should right now be referred to the laws a lot better to do as far as that part of the bar is concerned that the law knows, and that something in the jargon is going to be given to leave the economy. I thank you for the debate and we will see until the second reading whether these words that may change are not just up to us, we will address certain questions and if they do not cause some large additional costs in that part we will try to accept them. There were also certain words here about the company's administration that must have a certain criterion. I must say that we were guided by the criteria of the same society as we have for Liesing society, and that name should also change the law in the 2006 Assembly, too, was the same debate here, whether it is the same Croatian word or not. You see, two large areas have these 8 billion these 23 billion over 30 billion kunas spinning in the financial sector and they're called lying and factoring, should we change it into an operational and financial lease as it should be right. So we were guided when we compared these criteria to be a candidate for a member of the board's board of directors, we used to be guided by having all the same because it was financial societies, that they all had similar criteria. ... led by certain criteria as signed by the CNB through the Credit Institutions Act. So it is important that, in fact, all these societies, if we are talking about insurance, purchase of claims or factoring liening, means that these administrations and supervisory committees have similar criteria, since it is financial assets and those who manage financial assets and you see this crisis that has just arisen because of the particular fact that I do not say engineering those who have done these jobs and therefore all these criteria that have been set up for management and the Supervisory Board, I think that we should be even more stricter because once the crisis occurs in one financial institution has a much wider impact on the entire economy. What's important here is to say why this legislation is and what you've all supported is that it's good is that there's a way of reporting to the regulator, and ultimately reporting towards this House of Commons. Is unless you have regulated these areas here, the area of reporting, which is reported within which deadlines, that we have to report that we can get some aggregated data, not so we have one gap on the market where then simply those companies, if they don't have legal regulations, that they have to report and work with financial flows, then the money flows should be regulated... for financial stability because that's another of the criteria of financial stability. You have bank and non-bankable and therefore we think that it should have been regulated to the extent that at least he in this House when annual reports, regulatory reports and HANFA are brought in when he says that one of the more quality of this report is, and not so far, that they or they will beg someone not to deliver, etc. a specific financial report. What's certainly important, and here it seems to me expressed by the HDSSB club, or Mr. Bubal, I think it was correct when he talked about risk management. You have financial institutions today that you have to have risk management mechanisms if every time we get a post when some kind of failure doesn't give God some financial institutions then we talk and we should have a better risk management. So when we talk about risk management, we can talk about different kinds of risks. We're talking about interest risk, you're talking about operational risk means the risk of not telling an operational risk type... a falsified particular document, etc. We are talking about credit risk, interest risk, currency risk, etc. means all that kind of risk that can occur in these forms of business. And that's why it's good to impose on them through this law that they have to manage risks because when someone manages 8 billion kunas of someone's kunas and when circulating through a financial system, there must be risk management systems. And that's why this law is also... that I can't do business that they have to have business policies that have to have procedures and that they have to have clearly defined how to manage certain risks. When we talked about factoring here as a ransom claim as the most important instrument liquid and it's certainly significant, it's on a voluntary basis. However, what I said yesterday, which is very important, payment deadlines must be respected, starting with the state. So the State must first implement its payment deadlines and public and commercial companies, agencies, institutions, institutions all that is controlled by the Government or their institutions must comply with legally established payment deadlines. When we begin to comply with payment deadlines, then the overall positive effect must be seen on the economy. And then we hope that there will be fewer needs for these factoring services that can always be reported whether you will or will not use it, but unfortunately in today's situation it appears as necessarily evil, that's what the problem is, which occurs as a necessary evil, and then the discounters in such factors are larger. If we establish quality payment deadlines by the state, by all institutions we hope ultimately that there will be a less need for factoring. And there's going to be in that price list, and there's talk here about the price of factoring services. When we talk about factoring prices if no one needs it, their prices will be lower. And then they'll actually try to say they won't be on the market. But that and the foundation of every society are due and that's what we've brought. And in fact, in 2011, you passed the Law on meeting payment deadlines, and we have to respect it. So one thing is legal regulation and the other is to respect all these payment deadlines. And then I hope that we will talk less about both factoring and leasing and all other hybrids, alternative sources of funding if we introduce payment deadlines that we all have to respect them. I thank you again for your discussion. And this is what I'm saying, and about fundamentally, I see that you're all really behind this kind of law and about these language recommendations we're going to see up to another reading and in what way. But certainly yours today, what you're talking about with this law, is extremely commendable on my part, and I think we should insist on other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76276	Thank you, too. We have two replicas of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76277	I guess a fellow Lalovac claim is a term most commonly used in financial terminology. The fact that you took someone's right to write about some law was a tragedy, and then it went through all the reading, and that's what's left, that's another pair of shoes. So I don't see any reason why this isn't like this. But one thing I forgot, and that's why I did report for the replica in my individual debate, and that's the ransom note. And that's what we personally don't like. Why? Because the bond is not a means of payment, the bond is an instrument of payment insurance. And I just wouldn't want what happened to us in the former state when some at the small door pushed that the bond had become a means of payment. And then remember the big affair, the biggest one was AGRO-COMMERCE, and there were more whoosh. So if we have a payment instrument, a payment insurance, then we leave that payment insurance instrument and no one can buy it one way or another. He who redeems someone's claim must redeem his claims. He charges his interest, depending on how much he pays and charges the same risk through that interest. And at the moment he buys out claims from someone at that point, that bond becomes a non-real document to say so. Because like you put it in the law, unfortunately, we're pushing the bond as a means of payment rather than an instrument of payment insurance. Because one question arises if the bond is a payment insurance instrument, then why doesn't someone arrange that bond with the bank to collect it. Why would he go and sell it to some company for ransom claims? So think about that article where the bills are simply eliminated. Because then you step away from those fundamental legislative frameworks and where the exchange rate is a payment insurance instrument and not a payment instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76278	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76279	Thank you very much. According to the Currency Act, the note is like number 1 what you said as a means of payment, a credit asset because you have a certain maturity in it when you give, and a means of payment if it has a maturity. If you type in a date, then it's a means of payment. She's got her own maturity. What's wrong with the bonds is whether you have funds in your account at the moment of maturity. Now that's what we're talking about, where you know one of our companies that's been doing business in Qatar, a big deal, she's issued a note, she's issued as a bond of money insurance and she's had her own currency of maturity. But what happened? It happened at the time that that note arrived on a certain date, so we say one of the instruments of the bond is actually the date of the currency of the payment, they didn't have the means of payment. Then what happened? The same second it happened, at least it said in the paper that they were actually certain, the police came and they just went to court for the second because they thought that these had to have funds in their account as someone when you were giving the bond as payment insurance. So the note is a well-known instrument not only in Croatia but also in international trade. However, the problem of liquidity management, having funds on the account as a bond, is very important. I know that before the Ministry of Finance had enough, she was issuing bonds as a means of payment. The finance ministry gave the bonds, you had a specific date and she when she arrived on the date was paying off certain funds. So the bond is, as well as a means of payment, a means of insurance of payments but certainly a credit asset according to the Currency Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76280	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76281	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'm glad you agreed with me that we need to change practice. It is unacceptable for the law of the Republic of Croatia to be declared law without the lecturer seeing the law. That's inadmissible. There's no reason why this law isn't called a ransom law. But there's really no reason. I'm worried there's a need for a ransom claim. And he only makes sense if a claim is redeemed before maturity. All that's out of maturity is not a ransom claim, it's a consequence of the mess in the system and speculation. If someone has a deadline of 60 days and wants to charge within 5 days, then that makes sense. But not if there's a claim in court, if it goes into obsolescence and then the new believer solves the courts more favourably than that former believer can't charge even now this pillar and charges. Then it only promotes disorder and illegality. But a few other suggestions, Article 46, at least one member of the factoring society must have, know Croatian. If society is represented by two members and each individual would have to know the language. If society gives authority to a procurator, then the procurator would have to know the same Croatian language. The conditions prescribed for members of the administration should be the same conditions for a procuring officer because he has the same powers as a member of the administration. Then here, really good reputation again has a member of the administration, it's more intolerable in the law to have, what a good reputation. Which means on the basis of whom it is estimated to be able to behave well, knowingly do business. That doesn't mean anything, please delete it. There's someone who's not convicted of all crimes that can't be a member of the administration, but at the same time whoever committed the crime can't be a member of the administration. Well, we're allowing someone to be who committed the crime, and they can't let whoever committed the crime. I think we need to erase those who committed crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76282	Thank you. Deputy Lalovec's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree lastly on this part that there is an even clearer definition for a member of the administration, and just when we're talking about what you said about the purchase of the claim, it only makes sense if it's due. Well, that's exactly what this law says, that we're saying that you can only buy the missing claims, and that's the failure of the claims because the claim reached can't be made by the factoring law, or in this part of the review, they're not even the subject of the ransom. And these are the problems we said, which I said in the introduction, if the first state starts paying and public companies then the claims they made should not be with anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76284	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76285	Proposed factoring law, first reading, P.Z. No. 621. The debate on the bill is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a factoring law is accepted. Any comments, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law.". I'd like to make our point on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. It finds that the majority of votes by 77 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 16 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76286	We now proceed with a united debate - Final Bill on Confirmation of the Convention between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 634 - Final proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 636 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports. Is the Deputy Minister with us, intro? You don't have to. Do the workers want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. My colleagues and colleagues, that's all for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the 2012 Probation Service report. Session interrupted at 16.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76287	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Convention between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 634. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 104 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 634 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76288	We now proceed with a united debate - Final Bill on Confirmation of the Convention between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 634 - Final proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 636 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports. Is the Deputy Minister with us, intro? You don't have to. Do the workers want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. My colleagues and colleagues, that's all for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the 2012 Probation Service report. Session interrupted at 16.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-27-0.u76289	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino amending the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and San Marino on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Income Taxes, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 636. The debate is closed and I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it simple with 105 votes for Law P.Z. No. In the text proposed by the applicant, 636.
