ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89302	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. I am opening the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you, especially I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, present members, Minister of Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Please, is there any objections to the minutes of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament? I estimate there are no objections. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament in the text as you have received it. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the call for a session, you received a draft agenda, and at the session you were given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I included 11 new points, which are: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 736 is proposed by the IDS Representatives Club; 2. Proposal for a bill on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 737 is also a proposed club of IDS representatives; 3. Proposal for a law on regional development of the Republic of Croatia with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 742; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on mountainous mountain areas with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 741; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 744; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 739; 7. Proposal for a law amending the Law on maternity and parental support with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 743; 8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 740; 9. Proposal for a decision on the basis of a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "On behalf of the family", proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System; 10. Proposal for a law establishing a fund for co-financing of investment projects, first reading, P.Z. No. 738, MP Natalija Martincevic; 11.a) Report on the audit of waste management efficiency in the Republic of Croatia. b) Report on the audit carried out of the efficiency of the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones. c) Report on the effectiveness of achieving the results and achievement of the business objectives of companies owned by local and regional self-government units. d) Report on the effectiveness of the public procurement system carried out by companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. I would like to note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of the laws which adopt the P.Z.E. mark. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed and bearing the P.Z.E. marking. they are set out in points 22, 24, 26, 34 and 35 of the final draft agenda. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under the points of the final draft agenda are also proposed, namely 2, 14, 18, 19, 23, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32. That's what I don't think I'd have to read again right now. If you agree I'm not reading all the names again? Thank you very much, I appreciate you agreeing. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the urgent procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. Please, let's find out. In accordance with... He's here. Okay. Therefore, there were no written objections to the draft agenda for the session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. If any of the MPs have objected to the inclusion in the agenda, now I have to read again: 1. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions of representatives to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 736 – Proposer of IDS Representatives Club, 1. Proposal for a bill on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 737 – Proposer Club of Representatives IDS, 1. Proposal for a decision on the occasion of the motion for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "On behalf of the family" – Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, 1. Proposal for a Law establishing a fund for co-financing of investment projects, first reading, P.Z. No. 738 – Proposer of Representative Natalija Martinčević, 1. Report on the audit and effectiveness of waste management in the Republic of Croatia B/ Report on the audit of the efficiency of the establishment and investment in the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones, C/ Report on the audit of the effectiveness of the promotion of results and the achievement of the business objectives of companies owned by units of local and regional self-government and D/The report on the audit and effectiveness of public procurement systems carried out in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. No objection? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been determined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure. We've established the agenda. There's something you want to say after that. Here's the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89303	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We have no objections to the agenda, but on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say that it is completely unacceptable for us to re-opportional points or points proposed by opposition parties and representatives clubs to push to the end of the agenda so that they never arrive on the agenda. This is a concrete example of our proposal to join the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the motion for a resolution on the principles of transport integration of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County which have now successfully arrived at some 75th, 77th instead of 30th place, will probably come to 100th and some place etc. next time. It is therefore in order, not to the content but to the order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89304	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We have just unanimously established the order of the agenda. I hope that we have also established priorities for the Croatian Parliament at least this week and next and in accordance with the agreement at the Croatian Parliament Presidency. I agree there will be time to discuss all agenda points. I shall repeat in accordance with Article 228. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda by reading all the points of the agenda again, I suggest we do it for the sake of saving time because we have established the agenda. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I suggest we move on to the addition of the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 754. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public-private Partnership with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 748. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 752. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 750. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 749. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Attending Activity with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 753. Seven. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 747. 8. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative disputes, second reading, P.Z. No. 690. Nine. Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The European Parliament and the Council of 4 July 2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and the adoption and enforcement of public documents in hereditary matters and establishing a European certificate of succession with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 751. Ten. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN Support for Peace operations on 1 January 2013 until 30 September 2014. 11th Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Mission of the Peace Support in Afghanistan. 12th Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Support operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 13th Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of the Somalia Peace Support, Atalanta. 14th Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Operation of the Camphor Peace Support in Kosovo. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. We do not decide, it is in accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is the law under point 9 of the proposal to supplement the agenda. I ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other laws proposed? Yeah. My dear colleague, Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89306	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I think this is what I'm not going to say inappropriately, but I'm going to say rudely by the government for sending in an emergency procedure. I will refer to only one point, and this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local, regional and regional self-government with a final draft of the law. All units of local self-government had to make a draft budget in accordance with the Budget Act by 15. They don't know at this point, and last week only the government made some policy guidelines if it can be called that at all, so they don't know at this point where the law can plan around and almost 60, 70% of their original incomes. And if the government was already going to do what it was doing, then she could have done it before. Bringing the Parliament that only because the government belongs to the ruling nomenclature and most that it violates the laws that I have passed is at least ridiculous. So that's step one. Leading to tomorrow's launch of some kind of criminal procedure or something against the head of the local self-government units because he didn't bring acts in on time, also brings home that should regulate decent behaviour legislation. My colleagues and colleagues, based on this Law on the financing of units of local self-government, a state audit for all budgets in 2015 may conclude that they were not made in accordance with the Budget Law and a series of other legal provisions. So, we're going to accept an emergency procedure today because someone's been coming on for five months now, doesn't know what they're going to do with income tax, and then look at the fiscal guidelines, it's said that amending the Income Tax Act will reduce labour prices and relieve the cost of the economy, and at the same time in the light of the law, it's said that the salaries and incomes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so the government is talking differently about two documents. And by this law, I beg you nicely, I have eight points of the agenda I'll report by each.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89307	Thank you. Well, you can, but we're discussing our agenda. You said yourself you didn't, that you would accept an emergency procedure but you don't like the essence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89308	And the point is, this House will vote against the law that it has passed alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89309	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89310	And if you as a lawyer, Mr. President, are doing it, then it's a disaster for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89311	What are you asking us to vote, not ask us to vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89312	Of course I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89313	All right, on all counts of emergency procedure, we agree. We agree, we agree. It's your right and it's our obligation, we'll do it now. Then let's vote on an emergency procedure. Can we determine the state of representation? Please, let's get on with it. Thank you very much. We can see how many MPs are present. Thank you very much. We have enough number to decide on all points. We are now going to clarify who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, P.Z. No. 754. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 3 votes were abstentions and 27 votes against being accepted to put the final draft amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, P.Z. No. 754. We are going to vote on who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Private Partnership, P.Z. No. 748. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 2 votes were abstentions and 28 votes against the urgent procedure included the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Private Partnership, P.Z. No. 748. Three, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, P.Z. No. 752. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 81 for, 4 votes were abstentioned and 27 votes against on the agenda according to the urgent procedure were included in the Final Proposal for a Law establishing an Investment and Competitiveness Agency. Let's go to 4. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, P.Z. No. 750? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes on the agenda have been included in the urgent procedure the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas of Special State Care, P.Z. No. 750 and 78 votes in favour, no abstentions and 33 against the vote. We're going to agenda five. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Communist Economy, P.Z. No. 749? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes in the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Communist Economy, P.Z. No. 749 and 82 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 28 against. Six. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Attending Activity, P.Z. No. 753? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Household Activity Act, P.Z. No. 753 and 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 31 against. Seven. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Act on the provision of services in tourism, P.Z. No. 747? Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism, P.Z. No. 747 and 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 32 votes against. Does any of the MPs have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There isn't. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament good morning. Before we move to the debate on certain items of the agenda pursuant to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda of the 15th regular session of the Croatian Parliament to the following points: Proposal for a State Budget for 2015, with the Proposal for projections for 2016 and 2017, year 2 or (b) Proposals for financial plans of extra- budget users for 2015, with the Proposal for projections for 2016 and 2017 for: (a) Croatian Waters, (a) Croatian Roads, (a) Centre for restructuring and sale, (a) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, (a) State Agency for the Insurance of Saving Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks and (a) Croatian Institute for Health Insurance 1.3. Proposal for a State budget and financial plans of non-financial beneficiaries for 2015 and Proposal for projections for 2016 and 2017 (consolidated), 1.4. Explanation of the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal for financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries for 2015 with the proposal for projections for 2016 and 2017, 2. Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, second reading, P.Z. No. 746, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Property and other real rights, with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 754, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for projects to modernise the social protection system, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 757, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Association Agreement between the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 760, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Association Agreement between the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Orleans, of the other part, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 761, 7. Proposal for a law confirming an association agreement between the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 762, 8. Proposal for a Law on discharge of members of the National Council for Education and Education, b) Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the National Council for Education and Education, 9. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the emergency procedure proposal for the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. Thank you very much. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda addition points? No, I'm not. I'm not. Dear colleagues, MPs and respected colleagues, the agenda is complemented by this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89316	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I see some deputy ministers laughing sweetly, so let them laugh. I don't understand what's going to change so strategically or change over the past 15 days that we have to pass these first four or five laws by an emergency procedure. Does one who proposes these laws think about those who should implement them and whose jobs next year these amendments apply to these laws? So this is something that should simply interrupt practice in the Croatian Parliament that one law after 1.12. can be passed by emergency procedure if we do not adhere to the strict conditions of the Rules of Procedure that we have adopted. Because none of this law meets the terms of the Rules of Procedure that you colleagues and colleagues have voted on. See, therefore, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Strategic Investments and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. Well, we've been talking about strategic investment all year round and there's always one step missing to allegedly make these strategic investments come true and something is really changing strategically because what's changed strategically compared to before simply disabling the things that were foreseen in the laws before. Therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that I no longer owe, we are against inclusion and we are asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89317	I understand. Then we're going to vote on an emergency procedure. The quorum's been determined. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act, P.Z. No. 765. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 0 abstentions and 26 votes against, are included in the emergency procedure in the final draft amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, P.Z. No. 765. Secondly, who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 766. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 0 abstentions and 24 votes against, the final draft amending and supplementing the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z., was included in the emergency procedure. No. 766. Third, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, P.Z. No. 764. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes for, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, P.Z. No. 764. That concludes the vote on an emergency procedure. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? No, I'm not. I'm not. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the point - Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Representative Boris Blažeković Please make any remarks at the proposed item of the agenda? I see a hand, and it's not a hand to comment on. No objections. I find that the agenda is complemented by that. Please check that we have enough representatives and representatives present so that we can decide on all points of the agenda, the agenda done. Can we see the number of states? Thank you very much. We've got enough representatives present, and more than they've signed up for. We can decide on all the points of the agenda. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89526	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Dear Mr. Prime Minister of the City Council of the City of Gline on the proposal of the HDZ Club, HSP Ante Starcevic and HSS made a decision prohibiting the commercialisation at the scene of a terrible crime that was committed in '41 on two occasions at the place where the Holy Mother Church, the Orthodox Church, actually created a situation that I don't know how to call it whether shame, whether soulless or senseless. Anyway, colleagues and colleagues, maybe this isn't a question for the prime minister, maybe this is a question for all of us, and above all for the club presidents I mentioned. 29 to 30.7.In '41, up to 200 men were forced from Topuscoe to a clay church and killed there with a cold weapon. From 3rd to 4.8th, close to 800 people in the Kotar area of Vrginmost were led to a cross-breeding and killed there in two nights. Today, after the Glin rule was renamed the Memorial home of the Croatian House in '95, the city council decided not to let it go there. I have no answer, I don't know if you have Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89527	A question of honor, counsel. Thank you very much. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89528	Dear Mr. Representative, I assume that the Council of the National Minority of the Serb Community has addressed to the Ministry of Administration, which is then required by procedure to assess the constitutionality and legality, legality and constitutionality of such a decision by the City Council, the city, in this case, and to address the Constitutional Court as to what it will do, it is a regular procedure that we have followed in some previous cases. This is about the procedure itself, she's familiar to us. As far as the political act itself is concerned, we agree, ugly and sad, these are things that should not be brought into contact with the Croatian people but with criminals who have done it for their own account and for their own sake. And for that some have been punished and some unpunished. And I don't see why they'd run away from it or why they'd close their eyes first. It does not burden me as a Croat, it should be burdened by those who did it, who were behind it and you with today's Croatian state have nothing to do with it. Even in the Constitution that was passed in 1990, we have fenced very wisely and wisely since that period. Therefore, everything after that is a question of civil culture, of decency, of human souls if you will and that is something that cannot be prescribed. I can't call as prime minister for civil disobedience but we respect every victim's pate, an innocent victim, so we'll do it in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89529	It's an indication of Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89530	I thank you too, Mr. Prime Minister, for your reply. It is not just the Council of the Serbian National Minority, it is also the fact that this violates Article 325. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia which considers any denial or significant reduction of genocide victims to be a punishable act punishable by a prison sentence of up to 3 years. Downloading records from a memorial home, mentioning a record, of this disgusting crime and taking down the names of the victims that were committed in '95. by the city government in my opinion falls under that article clearly, unequivocally and unequivocally. And I want you to know that. And on the other hand, I want to add the following, for those who don't know, and many people today don't know why they're making oblivion and ignorance. On May 12th of that year, all the men aged 16 to 60 who were found in Glina, and at that time in Glina were between 450 and 5 hundred according to Slavka's findings... men of Serbian nationality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All those who found themselves were killed. Then comes this disgusting act after which the same church is destroyed and the home of the 1960s is raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89531	Thank you very much. Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic is the second question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89532	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the protest of part of the defenders and wartime military disableds outside the Sava Ministry has been going on for the 4th week. Since the government, despite the difficult economic situation so far, is neither going to take away in the future any legal rights that Croatian defenders have, especially the disabled and the victims of war, and given your calls, to discussions in institutions that are ultimately rejected by the leaders of the protest, can you please tell me how do you see the way out of this situation where we are?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89533	Thank you very much, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's response. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89534	I've never said a word, I'm going to say it this way or suggest that the defenders, or those defenders who have been protesting in front of the Defense Department for the fourth week, are being manipulated and I don't mean it because it's underestimating and insulting someone's brains and prudence. People have their reasons, some maybe individual reasons that I can't get into, but I certainly don't want to underestimate them. However, according to us, our deep conviction cannot be a reason for this kind of protest and for seeking the ultimate resignation of the minister and his closest associates. It just doesn't stand. And I'm sorry that it started out with such an ultimate tone and I don't consider myself responsible for it. I've called on very peaceful words to talk in institutions, and I can repeat that for people to go to their families. Not to go home but to return to their families and not to question or question any rights acquired, earned rights, the debt of honor of this society to the disabled of the Homeland War that we will not touch it. And it's not just my word, it's this government's policy, it's the third year. And that's why I'm surprised there's no reason for that kind of protest this time. The reasons can be politically like this, but I don't want people who are there to be manipulated by one political or 2.3 political party. Such ambitions certainly exist, but in this case, I see before me living people of blood and flesh with my problems, with a warpath, with disability and my and our promise to be treated with dignity and maximum protection but we cannot talk to the ultimatums and we must solve it in the institutions if there is a problem. If there's a problem with a group of 100 people we're not aware of because at first we weren't aware of anything, let's try to solve it. So I'm still waiting for these concrete things, but that can't be the reason for this kind of dissatisfaction. We can't run a country like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89535	It's a show of respect. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Jelusic is the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89536	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to Mr. Lalovec, Minister of Finance. Given that the government has referred to the parliamentary procedure of amending the Income Act, which goes towards tax tax tax discharge, we see that in the public part of the public, and even part of the opposition challenges it. This government is nowhere near a green branch when it comes to taxes. When we follow our policy by introducing order in that direction that everyone has to pay taxes, then we consider it a tax press. In normal states, it's normal to pay taxes, only with us was normal not to pay. Now that we've said the tax has to be paid, it's considered a tax press. However, this example here is not said to be a tax press because it would be too much, but still some dispute, so I ask you, Mr. Minister, to make it clear and loud about what changes in income tax are making, or its reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89537	Thank you, too. Minister of Honor Boris Lalovac, Minister of Finance, answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89538	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MP, yes, this is one package of changes where we will try the Income Tax Act to touch two things to make it very... clear to the citizens. There are 1% of Croatian citizens who save 75 billion kuna in Croatian banks. 1% of Croatian citizens, 75 billion kuna, and they make a yearly profit from the interest of 2.3 billion kuna, pay no taxes, 0 kunas pay taxes. There are a large number of workers in the Republic of Croatia, middle class who have 5, 6.7 thousand kuna salaries, pay 100% taxes when we speak pension contributions and together income on their work. So they pay two to three thousand kunas for people who work. We need citizens who work today, we lack people who work today, we need to raise employment, we need to raise the competitiveness of the country, people who will participate in export products, and that redistribution of those who have accumulated capital and now we ask the question and how has there been a accumulation of capital of 75 billion kuna in Croatian banks if we have no exports. In normal countries it is that it is entrepreneurs who have created values, which have encouraged industry and now these 75 billion 1% of citizens, 2.3 billion and I am talking about these working citizens, who are choking on their salaries to survive. This is a social democratic government and this is a socially sensitive issue and this is also a reduction of certain inequalities that have accumulated in society these 23 years. This is a very clear message from the government that actually these social inequalities will be and that this is justice for citizens who have huge capital that they will pay a little bit, but for these citizens who work, who live from their work that they should be relieved and that is why we are different from the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89539	Obviously, a respected representative, no, thank you very much. Question 4, Honorable Representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89540	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was addressed to Mr Predrag Matic, Croatian Defence Minister. Dear Minister, we are witnessing several days of protests in part of the defence population outside the defence ministry building on Sava Street in Zagreb. The demands of the protesters are ultimate: they are seeking your shift and the replacement of your closest associates. This is a zero point after which they are ready to sit at the table and discuss their potential needs and their problems. At the same time you do your job and visit Croatia, attend meetings, meet with defenders, talk to them. I am a witness to the support you enjoy in the public and also among your fellow fighters and among the defense population, the support that is directed towards your work in the first order. Despite the media interest in this topic, we have not yet heard clear, articulated demands of protesters in relation to their rights directed towards the institutions of the system, towards the government. The president of the Croatian government is here and now said in his response that the rights of defenders are not and will not be touched and is also ready to talk. Dear Ministers, please list the acquired rights of Croatian defenders who have been reduced or filed by the decisions of this government, i.e. to list what you have done to improve the state of the defence population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89541	Thank you, too. Minister Predrag Matic responds. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Thank you very much for this question. I've brought, I have to read, I know all these items by heart, but in this short time we can count. So all the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers for 2012, 2013 and thus will be fully fulfilled in 2014. We had several amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and all points, absolutely everything was alternative, so I'll just read it briefly. More favourable conditions for the family retirement of HRVI 1st and 2nd groups, the right to conclude a new marriage or extramarital union of widows without loss of right, to strengthen the right of advantage in the employment and the introduction of criminal sanctions for those who violate it. Croatian defenders are historically significant persons, which means unless they have family members, the local community is obliged to take care of their graves. We have published a register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The status of Croatian defenders can also be achieved by those who left the unit on their own, and then remobilized for the period during which they were honorably in the Croatian Army or the Police. We have extended the housing to the volunteers of the Homeland War, the defense social cooperatives we have introduced to them that the manager may be retired, but at the same time do not lose the role of the cooperative manager. We are setting up veteran centres, we have established the Homeland War Memorial Center Vukovar, something that is as significant for Croatia as highways. Here in the last two weeks, 2,600 children have gone through Vukovar, so that's how they're doing the pate towards Vukovar, according to the Homeland War. Co-operatives of Croatian defenders over 500 cooperatives, we have increased their incentive funds, we have expanded the establishment of defence cooperatives and the neighbouring Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We held an international conference on sexual violence in the armed conflict, and before the MPs there is soon a second reading of the Victims' Law. We made a project of a picture of the Homeland War, short stories and film screening of events from the Homeland War. We co-financed works of art and documentation on the Homeland War, we co-financed a documentary on Kuson's death. We have also introduced the possibility of excessive housing, but not by discretionary decision of the minister or his assistants, but we have introduced it to go simply according to procedure. It's a scholarship. We scholarship the children of Croatian defenders, we introduce a certain percentage of scholarships and for children who do not meet the requirements according to their grades, but meet social status, the most socially endangered family. We co-financed the establishment of the Croatian National War Documentary Centre in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unlike many who swear on our countrymen and friends from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We started it two years ago. The famous supplies and guaranteed minimum compensation, so another manipulation to which people serve. After a lot of compliance with our colleague Opačić we have done, so far it has been that the Croatian defender is either single or large family is always receiving 1097 kuna, and now the single receives 800 kuna per month plus 4 times a year by 900 kuna, so it is equal to that. But the family of Croatian defenders with their wife and two children is now receiving the 1920 kuna. So we're fighting facts, but let's go. We can do that! The rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council will be resolved. We had to introduce the receipt because on the basis of the lawsuits made by our members, the members of the Croatian Defence Council have so far paid off the unaccompanied 38 million kunas. And we've solved it. We are also working on a new amendment and addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers for which here we would like to read again 7.8 just affirmative points. We're bringing in next year and...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89543	I'm sorry, Minister. Time's up. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Appreciation, respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89544	I thank the Minister for his reply, but I would also ask him to deliver this answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89545	Thank you very much. Let's go to the fifth question. Dear Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89546	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm giving the question to the prime minister. Mr. Prime Minister, instead of reducing VAT to food to 10%, improving the social picture of the state of society, increasing consumption, and thus preserving at least some domestic production, you are proposing a law that is going to harm local self-government. It will be forced to raise prices for services such as kindergartens. Now I'm asking you, if someone gets paid 50 kn, and the kindergarten collects 100 kn, which is good for the citizens? The question is: Who's actually going to benefit from a change in income tax?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89547	Answer, Prime Minister respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89548	Dear fellow MP, it will benefit the citizens for whom we are doing this, and local self-government will have to behave more rationally and more responsibly towards the funds it takes from citizens. So, the first goal is the well-being of citizens. So people who will have slightly higher income, someone more and someone less. Croatian middle layer, average people, that's the goal. And if we take the stand in advance that the kindergarten will collect 100 kn, I think the citizens will know who is a good manager in any city or municipality, and who is not, who is not, who simply has a projection of the budget that should be charged and executed for the next 30 years. So that's not politics for me. Here we believe that citizens will recognize it and that they will know for themselves who will go and who goes to increase services because it may be inevitable somewhere. It's always like that, regardless of taxes and tax laws. And why it goes into it out of pure perversion, simply to prove something. The citizens always recognize it, the citizens know it very well, so in this case they will know and recognize what our intentions are, how this is reflected in their incomes, how many states are discharging citizens and how much local self-government must participate in it. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89549	Appreciation, respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89550	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, I expected a similar answer from you because you really didn't get a chance to live in local self-government, work and be with citizens every day, so it's normal for you to react from the position of the Prime Minister. But it's not what you say. No one in local self-government wants to raise prices. But it's not good to throw local self-government on its knees like this and take away the only tax income that's safe and that can just finance all this right now. What's important is that that consumer boom won't happen either. And what I have put in place and suggested that, in fact, by reducing VAT on food, a much greater effect would be achieved, that the average four-member family would have about 300, 400 kuna savings in food costs over a month and that it would act and affect all layers of Croatian society, improve the social picture, and ultimately no one would lose. Even the state wouldn't have lost in the end. We'd all be left with that. And so I really want to know why this is how tax reform is done instead of seeing the other variant and the other side and trying to do what is best for Croatian citizens. In this case, by changing income taxes, it is interesting that those who have about three, three and a half to four thousand kuna will receive 50 kuna more. You can imagine which consumer boom is going to cause. And those who have over 15 thousand kuna will get a thousand and some more kuna. We're disintegrating even more society. Those unemployed people we're not talking about at all. In this way, the reduction of VAT on food puts the situation completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89551	Thank you very much. Question No. 6th and Honorable Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89552	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, you seem calm, concerned today that I'm glad, you've probably had breakfast because when a man is hungry then he can't usually concentrate, then he's nervous, he's prone to bring... There's more of them here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What am I saying that for? I'm talking about what the children's primary task is to learn. Can you just explain to me how someone who's hungry can concentrate, can at all focus on that main task of theirs and that's to learn? We like to say to ourselves that we are a land of knowledge, but according to the UNICEF survey, 60 thousand just preschool children in Croatia live below the poverty line. The law provides for compulsory primary school education but does not provide for the right to food for school children. According to the Constitution, Article 66 of education is available to all under equal conditions. But it's obvious that not everyone has equal terms because they're not all full. Don't answer me that their parents, given the soufflification, get social help but they can't schedule it because it's simply not true, at least in most cases. Are you going to do something to make sure that children who are hungry at school get at least that meal? But not according to the system that the state pays everyone and the children of well-being parents, as is the case with the purchase of books where it's probably going to a larger amount, so that's why the commission is bigger. I know schools are under local self-government units, but taking care of children is the state's concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89553	Thank you, too. Answer, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89554	Dear Mr. Representative, I am well-concentrated with a full and empty stomach and today in Croatia is not a problem with the empty stomach of people, and children have a full stomach, the question is just what. Because better food usually costs too much, although it doesn't have to cost too much. Therefore, let us not be such populists and say that today people in Croatia are starving. The problem is bigger, people in the family eat, there's more food than ever, but there's bad food that's cheap, which may not be directly harmful, but in the long run it's harmful. And these are habits that we have to start changing in our society, it doesn't go by force, it doesn't go overnight, it's going to take years but it's just a process that we have to start at one point. Social care centres have developed models, you wanted to prevent me from talking about it in advance, if someone really doesn't have a meal of the state or the Social Care Centre will take care of it and have it, if someone is really hungry. But it is not the main problem in Croatia, the main problem is, as in other countries, the abundance of poor food, the abundance of caloric food, the abundance of available food and the inability to distinguish things. And that's a matter of rearing. And there's a very important school. As for the support, i.e. the cost of school textbooks to everyone here, I agree with you. So I and all of us don't need it and there are a lot of people in Croatia who simply have to buy these books. Let them choose to buy them, and give the books to those who do not have them. And there are and should be very clear social criteria, who has and who doesn't. It's a organized society. And speaking of organised society yesterday I was in the Czech Republic and there I experienced that their Prime Minister in the middle of Prague said a perhaps a slightly pretentious sentence to inspire them that Croatia has solved the problem of fiscalisation, i.e. monitoring the incomes of the fiscal cash register control. It was done by a relatively small team in a state-owned firm called APIS since day one. Maybe the word inspires a little bit too literary, it's a practical solution to the problem we've had but it's called an orderly state. That's where we became a more orderly state, so we're also going to be a state-of-the-art, and we're going to be able to tell the difference between who really needs social help, who doesn't really have any, so who doesn't have enough food, and who has enough to pay for it. And the ones who have to pay are Mr. Novak you and me. I try not to be a populist, and you see.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89555	It's an indication of the respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89556	Well you say it's populism, ask those who don't have whether it's populism. I can't agree with that at all, but it's a good thing you're thinking. You said yourself the other day that you weren't reading the paper, so you probably weren't familiar with a lot of cases like that. As far as food is concerned, there is plenty of food, but there is no food for those who need it, the ones who need it. The funds will redistribute. Ban investment in parks for the dock, investment in extremely expensive eco cars, in ministerial offices with a bigger bathroom square than the square of containers in Gunja. 200 thousand kunas are overpaid by the M.O.P. Those SUVs, if I'm not mistaken, I think that's exactly the number. There's a huge festival to be paid to mark the day of the city, the community, the local community, I don't know what. However, you have really proven that you are changing your mind and that man is learning while he is alive. I congratulate you on that. You realized that excessive savings didn't do anyone any good, so neither will we. We told you that at the beginning of the term of office. Now we also warn you not to sell state property. Neither HEP nor INA nor Croatian Post Office or Croatian Railways, as some future government will have nothing to sell. They won't have anything to gain from it. Don't give in to another neoliberal prank, and just what you were saying about the division has food, there is, but it's not for everyone. Some people have a lot of options, others have a lot of poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89557	Thank you, Your Honor. Seven questions and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89558	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will ask my question to Mr. Branko Greek, Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy and regional development. Mr. Minister says vox popular in Croatia that we remember your three years of funding the rich EU by the poor Republic of Croatia. After the absence of any development, regional policy, 13 quarters of the consecutive GDP decline and your optimistic views on these achievements. I will remind you, at the beginning of 2012, your statement "I expect the minimum GDP growth in 2012." At the end of the 2% GDP decline was expected at the beginning of 2013. In 2013, I expect a moderate recovery, a 1.8% GDP growth, a slight growth in exports and consumption after a 1% drop in 2013. It's a relatively good fall, yet this minus decreases and it's the entrepreneurs' fault. For 2014 you announced in the first quarter that GDP growth is possible, all points to this. After the drop of 0.4%, the European Commission is responsible for the fall of GDP. And then most importantly, after the fall in the second quarter, the best statement is, "We're going to sink less and we'd be growing up this year if we hadn't gotten into the European semester." Great. Reading the government's careful work programme in 2011-2015, written on 62 pages, does not say that GDP will fall 4 years in a row, but it does write quite the opposite. Gradually increase the rate of economic growth to reach 5% in 2015, not to read further on what you have written about the deficit, on the consolidation of the budget, on regional policy simply so that we do not feel uncomfortable here in our assembly. If Plan 21 was, in the words of the Prime Minister, without promise and figurative, if the programme of government's work is a kind of public fraud because none of the goals set is almost achieved, I ask you if you have any secret, invisible plan that you're disintegrating and defecating this country and you're doing it without any plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89559	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89560	Dear Mr. Representative, colleagues and colleagues thank you for this question, thank you very much for this matter. You see, unlike you who spend every day spreading blackness and pessimism, we try to give the Croatian people a little bit of hope back. And that hope is really there, and every day it gets more and more clear that things are going in the right direction. I'm not going to explain it now, I've said it a hundred times, but what's important during your previous government of GDP in Croatia has collapsed -7% in 2009, -4% in 2010, -3% in 2011, so what are we talking about? Today we're talking about -0.4 just like you're talking about -0.2 and so on. What is the price of this government's policy, which is that it has protected the most important groups in this society in terms of social, which are mostly pensioners, are all these people who are mentioned here today and who need social protection, it costs the state. We won't save on it, so that's our policy, that's not what we're saving on. If we cut as you suggested and reduced taxes, that would be that liberal policy, and we're still Social Democrats, so we can't resort to such measures. So we're protecting a wide circle of citizens, and even if we're going to dive in here at -0.4, 0.6. Which would mean for the Croatian state that it is +0.2 or 0.4 nothing significant believe me. But the fact that we haven't cut our pensions, that we haven't cut our salaries, that's the message of this government, and we've been saving on all those other things, and we've been creating space for the deficit that you've left us with from about 25 billion in the last year, hidden and exposed costs, we've reduced it in these 15, 16 years next year, I hope less. It is our policy, therefore, to save where it has never been saved before, and to protect the citizens above all, and to these measures, not only to protect but to give them a new hope, a new opportunity to increase their incomes. We were just talking about it. So by a million citizens, there will be an increase in wages as early as 1.1 next year. It is a new opportunity for Croatia and for the recovery of this GDP that you are talking about. So our policy is consistent and it will remain that way, and the results will come. This shows exports growth of 12% this year, 12% in the first nine months of people. It's facts, it's data, it's a growth in industrial production in 8 of 9 months this year, in the last month over 4%, it's a decline in unemployment registered for 40,000 people today compared to the same day last year, etc. etc. If that's what you're wrong about, I can't help you with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89561	Appreciation of Representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89562	Thank you very much. Well, dear Minister, I won't look back on your data delivery, because most of them are false and false. But I'm still gonna find out, we were better off when you weren't protecting us the way you were protecting us, and we were better off when you weren't protecting us. And from what you wrote in the government's 2011-2015 programme, you didn't accomplish anything at all. I'll remind you, it'll go through the budget of 500 billion kuna, 80 borrowed, and it'll be on that old "Where have you been, what you've been doing, nothing.", no problem will be solved, all those from 2011 will welcome us in 2015. So they rightly call us in the EU and say you are the worst. Right. In these countries, when politics cannot solve the problem and achieve the objectives set, elections are being discussed. So let's look at Slovenia, three prime ministers in three years. Three Prime Ministers, three Governments. What do we have in Croatia? In Croatia, under your leadership, there are simply internal, external enemies, ministers deprived of any responsibility, even principled ones. Here, Fred Matic says and sets the public's conditions as he can be replaced, he sets the conditions. What's the Prime Minister doing? The prime minister relieves them of their sins, and the media write down a penance they must pray for. Let's look at this other minister in environmental protection, everyone has to save, he spends like a drunk millionaire. Well, it's done in a brief procedure, no explanation. Yeah, yeah, you laugh. About what you did to your Regional Development Act, just one sentence. Give me time, then. [[Intruder President: Please proceed.]] About what you did to Gorski Kotar under this Regional Development Act, just one sentence. [[Intruder President: Continue.]] That part of Croatia hit two major disasters this year. In February, ice, and now in the November Regional Development Act, according to the SDP recipe. At first, we couldn't influence, so let's get the parliamentary representatives to at least solve this second part of the people of Gorski Kotar don't have to come here to protest. These are the results of your economic policy. The only... that would make this people... is your resignation, dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89563	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Bačić, 8th question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89564	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Environment and Industry, Mr. Dragonovich. Mr. Minister, I'm not going to ask you about all these affairs that have been rolling around your ministry in the last few days, but I'm going to set something that I think is more important, even though these affairs and their resolution are not irrelevant. Namely, the amendments and additions to the Strategy for Spatial Arrangements of the Republic of Croatia and the adoption of the Law on Mining and the Law on Hydrocarbons, the Agency for Hydrocarbons, launched a tender for the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea. The deadline for submission of offers expired a few days ago and according to Minister Vrdoljak, 6 major world players have submitted research offers and... 15 of the 29 fields in the Adriatic Sea. Some of these fields extend just a few kilometers from the Adriatic coast and the Adriatic islands, some of these fields extend across the Natura 2000 ecological network, some of these fields spread across the apple cistern which is the largest... fish in the Adriatic. The Adriatic Sea is one of the cleanest seas in the world. I am interested in how is it that these reasons and the legal obligation arising from the Environmental Protection Act were not sufficient reasons for you and the Ministry of Economy to ask for a strategic environmental impact assessment in view of all the problems that can arise in... oil and gas in the Adriatic Sea? So I ask the question why did you not respect the Law on Environmental and Nature Protection, ask for a strategic assessment that was a prerequisite for all of these actions that are currently taking place at the Agency for Hydrocarbons because you yourself know that even the smallest factor that can happen here can represent economic, social and ecological cataclysm in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89565	Thank you. The honourable minister, Michael Zmajlovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89566	Dear Mr. Representative, the issue of hydrocarbon research and strategic assessment is the real question, the good question. Therefore, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has also asked the Agency and the Ministry of Economy to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment in accordance with the law and I believe that they will comply with the obligation legally. What is much more important than a strategic assessment because it cannot neither ban nor determine where to do what, but look at all possible aspects and risks to the environment. More importantly, for each individual procedure, if it occurs, research or exploitation of a particular field, it is necessary to carry out a full environmental impact assessment and then to assess or determine whether such operation is possible and if the necessary environmental protection measures are necessary to reduce the risk to the highest possible level of the environment. So, I believe that the law will be respected, as far as we have discussed, that procedure is ongoing, and for each individual procedure, the environmental impact assessment process will be carried out in accordance with the law, and integratedly with that, the evaluation of the procedure itself on the ecological network, i.e. Natura 2000. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89567	Appreciation of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89568	Thank you, Mr. President. This isn't about me being satisfied, I'm not happy with your answer. In fact, there's a legal relationship that you, as a minister, did not respect. But not only has this legal obligation not been respected, it can be worse than that after the offer delivered by oil companies has been opened and when a strategic assessment has been completed which is currently under way, it is found that there may be no research or exploitation in any of these 15 fields. At that moment for the Croatian government, and also for the Croatian state, there may be an indignity because we have announced a public tender to all world oil companies to report to the individual fields they are interested in and after your assessment is completed we will tell them, and you know, we have been joking a little bit, we have not taken this field seriously because in order to protect the environment, protect the fish fund, protect the diversity of the Adriatic Sea you will not be able to explore, let alone... oil. Therefore, it is your responsibility not to tell Minister Vrdoljak before you even opened the process we had to determine which part of the Adriatic is not suitable for research, let alone for the exploitation of the Adriatic. And that obligation is imposed by the law that this House has passed on a proposal from you and your government. In this, it is your responsibility that you should not have allowed the exploration and exploitation of oil to take place especially in the depths below a thousand meters on the southern Adriatic. Research and oil exploitation is the most complicated technological project in the world when it comes to depths below 500m, and a large number of fields are just around Dubrovnik and in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where the depths are enormous. And today there's no company in the world that dares to drill at depths below a thousand meters, and we've suggested there are several fields right over those depths above a thousand meters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89569	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Glava, 9th question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89570	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister of Economy Ivan Vrdoljak. Dear Ministers, 15 days ago in an interview, and the topic was the exploration of oil and gas in Croatia in one issue, you said, "priority is a clean Adriatic and the realization of a project that can significantly affect the gross social product and the better standard of citizens." Since last week the first international competition for oil and gas exploration in the Adriatic has been completed, what does this project mean for Croatia and energy stability? Are you satisfied with the number of bidders and offers that have arrived at the competition and in fact how it will affect the energy picture of Croatia, its industry and the overall economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89571	Answer, Honorable Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89572	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, we'll connect the answers. I am very pleased with the upcoming offers, it is very serious companies that have great experience in exploring oil and gas in the world and that use the most modern technologies and most importantly meet the most demanding environmental standards. The expert commission will receive an analysis of the tenders received next week and we expect a proposal to the government on those best bidders during the first quarter of next year and to sign the contract. But I'm going to look back on what's most important in this project, and that's environmental protection and respect for standards. So the Ministry of Environmental Protection, on the previous question, is all the time jumping around the head of the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Hydrocarbons, and it should be done and it is good and give its experts who participate in each step. We're not going to get upset if we started doing a strategic environmental impact assessment half a year before we closed the competition. We often embarrassed ourselves that we were moving into projects that weren't prepared, so we waited until then to order estimates, so we lost dozens of years of some previous governments by calculating whether or not a project would end up including Dubrovnik County, so we changed the spatial plans, so we blocked investors. Every investor is aware that we are going to go into an assessment that will be completed by the end of the year, adopted by the second month, and all investors will not sign the contracts before the study is completed, but only after the study is done, so we are doing a parallel job. We have decided not to waste time as many governments have wasted, but rather to take a parallel course in the study, call for tenders, and anyone who has come knows what risk it takes and will not take it when the impact study is completed. There is no ruse, this country and the ministry have been blasphemed on many other projects in history, not these new projects. As for your comment a few miles, and that's not true, it would be polite to talk about some important projects in this country, and the condition is 10km from the coast, 6 from the island. So you decide if it's a couple of miles. So it's 22km if you're going to watch a couple, odd, but it's not 2 km and there's no farm in that area. At the end of the line, we will respect what the profession will say in a strategic environmental impact assessment. I'll tell you one more thing, just three days before our bids opened, we're often at conferences where we presented our potential legal framework that we've changed over the last year and a half to meet with colleagues from Canada, with their ministers, with their agency. They had a tender that closed three days before ours, 31.10. that's Nova Scotia, they didn't get a single offer. They weren't transparent enough, they didn't have enough well-organized data. Croatia was better at the process than Canada, and we have completely ecological standards at Canadian level and even more because the sea is more protected in the Adriatic. So we expect a lot from this project, dear representative. It is not a project where we can get votes in these elections that are ahead of us in a year, it is a project that we are working for generations that will come in 5, 6, 7 years when we will have the opportunity to be energy exporters in this region and when all the accompanying energy intensive industry that has been destroyed by previous governments will have the chance to develop in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89573	Thank you very much, Minister. It's an indication of the esteemed representative of Dragutin's head. Thank you very much, no. 10th question, honourable representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89574	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the defence minister, Mr. Fred Matic. Dear Minister, I'm going to ask you today the questions that I've already asked you in the current hour somewhere at the beginning of this government's term, and that is, do you have any information at the Ministry of Defense on the national structure of the dead in the Homeland War on the national structure of the disabled Homeland War and on the national structure of the entire defence population? I ask you this question again after visiting Dubrovnik and talking with a large number of defenders not only Bosniaks who express their deep disappointment with the events in front of your ministry, especially what happened in the Croatian Parliament. I was introduced to the fact that 26 Bosniaks, including 6 members of the Serb national minority, died in the defence of the city of Dubrovnik in the Homeland War, and in particular pointed out that they were voluntary, whether through mobilization in the Homeland War, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia participated independently of their national, religious, secular, political and in-house membership. They are also deeply disturbed by this and this is my reason for insisting on this issue, through the media, Croatia is creating a picture that Croatian defenders are exclusively Croats by nationality, Catholics by religion and members of the right political option, which is not even close to true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89575	The Honorable Minister Predrag Matic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, therefore, as I replied at the beginning of the term of office at the Ministry of Defence, we are deeply aware that among Croatian defenders, among the victims of the Homeland War, all of the civilian victims were members of different nationalities, national groups living in the Republic of Croatia. And I can again point out with pride that in our work one of the things that really doesn't matter to us is not the national structure of Croatian defenders, victims. So we're aware there's been a lot of Bosniaks and a lot of Serbs in the war. All of us who were at war know that there were other nationalities next to us. However, in the work of the Ministry of Defence, we have important circumstances, important questions, answers that answer questions where, how, the dates, citizenship, residence, JMBG and the OIB. Therefore, the Croatian defender is a Croatian defender regardless of nationality, the victim is the victim regardless of which nationality, citizen of the Republic of Croatia, is also a civilian victim. Only in the process of identifying and seeking prisoners and missing persons for the sake of the need of domestic and international courts are we running that national structure of the victims, so they can deliver it to you in writing. So here we have 18 national groups, nationalities and other headings and others, but it's only in this process of seeking missing and imprisoned persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89577	Appreciation of the respected representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89578	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply. So I just want this civil component of the Homeland War to be pointed out as often as possible. We all defended her the way we could and had to, and given the circumstances in which we lived. I just want to point out one more important fact for me today. On several occasions in the Assembly, I spoke of sharper divisions in Croatian society and expressed my disappointment over such a situation. Unfortunately, the situation doesn't improve, but I think we're going into an even worse situation. That is why I would like to warn you today when the Croatian Government is complete in the Parliament and most of the colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. These days we witness the 25th anniversary of the destruction of the Berlin Wall that has been shared for decades by the German people and the German society. I get the impression that the latest events in our country resemble the foundation of the Croatian Berlin Wall and therefore I am taking the opportunity to invite you who are the most politically responsible not to allow the Croatian Berlin Wall to be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89579	Thank you very much. 11th parliamentary issue and respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89580	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to refer my question to the Honored Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction for Flooding, which took place in the Republic of Croatia in the second half of May 2014. The floods took the scale of the disaster, and 11 thousand and 500 people were evacuated in the County of Posavina, 6 settlements were flooded. I'm curious, now we have a time-out of just over five months, what is the intensity of the reconstruction? You've announced on behalf of the government that the County Posavina will be renewed with the legalization money that is... What's the amount of money, how's the renovation going? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another issue related to flooded family houses, the issue of family homes in the legalisation process, was announced that this would go on about the cost of the Republic of Croatia to allow people to return quickly. I think now is the time for the Croatian public from this place, from the Croatian Parliament, to get information about how satisfied you are with the dynamics of reconstruction, the quality of reconstruction, the amount of money, and is it from your announced legalisation process on state spending that anything is done and how it goes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89581	Thank you, too. Honorable Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89582	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, it's really a good time to talk about this catastrophic flood in the County Posavina area and what we've done. Perhaps just to remind you, such a catastrophic flood was in these areas 50 years ago, the other day it was exactly 50 years since the flood that was in the city of Zagreb. Such a flood is now in the County Posavina. What have we done so far? We've done a lot of visible work, but we've done a lot of and invisible work. Yesterday, 1815 decisions were made, which means 1815 facilities are in the reconstruction phase. Of this number, 993 owners decided to do so themselves, and for 821 procedures or buildings, the state does so. We've brought down 284 buildings, of these 284 buildings, we're building 184 new buildings. In other words, we will not even build 100 houses because no one has lived there. We restored 21 public buildings and not only in the flooded area but also in the contact area, it means everywhere where there were members who participated in both armies and volunteers who participated in the flood. Not that we've returned to the original state, but we've improved the situation significantly, and that means that all the boilers that were on the mule have replaced the boilers on the gas, that we've prepared everything that we can do in the spring to make the facades that are energy-efficient, which means that it's much less energy-consuming. This hour about 500 buildings were restored and not only what people did themselves, but also what the state did, because at one point it was indeed an announcement and the state was said not to be able to do it, take the money, who knows how it will be. As time went by, it was seen not that the state was able to make but was able to do both well and quality. This time in the legalisation budget was paid to the owners about 44 million kuna, we spent 13 million kuna on rebuilding buildings, for rebuilding the state we have spent 24 million kunas so far. We have a total contract for 270 million kuna, which might be another 10% enough for what we're doing. But what we need to know as well, our assessment is that about 100 to 150 buildings will still enter the reconstruction process, and about 300 to 400 buildings won't be able to get in for the simple reason that these people have no basis. In fact, it's about some of them having two or three houses, it's about a lot of people not living there, and this moment we're 68 decisions that we've made just delivered to the MUP to check what's with it. As far as legalization is concerned, it's this invisible business. All legalisation solutions will be issued by the end of the year. These people from the flooded areas, so those who were flooded won't cost anything, but what's important, for every house that we rebuild behind it gets a man's solution that we've restored whether I finance or finance us. We record a complete situation and this new complete situation goes according to official duty, so the direct state implements the catastrophe. That means when we leave the flooded area, then all the houses that we've restored will be enrolled in the cadastre and have a solution and legal status, and that's the whole deal. The law that this House has passed is a year's worth, and after a year we'll be finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89583	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivica Mandic, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89584	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would say that I am pleased that under such complex conditions the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done the best possible way to ease this disaster. I would also say that, with the adoption of the law that the Minister announced in the last presentation, the Law on the Rehabilitation of the effects of the catastrophic flood probably contributed significantly to the achievement of such dynamics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89585	Thank you, Your Honor. There is a 12th question and respected representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89586	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer my question to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Branko Grcic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of European Funds, tell me the European Commission confirmed the Partnership Agreement here several days ago, on 30 October 2014. It is a document that is roof and strategic for the adoption and use of over 10 billion euros from European structural and investment funds. Of course, these are the funds available to Croatia over the next 7 years, and should serve as the basis for sustainable economic growth, employment, development. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, before us, there are new obligations ahead of Croatia. What this means to us in particular now, the confirmation of the partnership agreement, which awaits us and whether we are ready to withdraw all these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89587	Thank you very much. Answer, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89588	Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. So three are actually the key effects of membership in the European Union. One is the expected growth of exports already seen in Croatia with serious growth rates, on the other, the growth of direct foreign investments where we have some shifts in this year and the third big thing is precisely the possibility of using very generous European funds. We have met the first of two key preconditions by adopting this partnership agreement to go intensively into the use of these funds and as you said about 10.7 billion euros in the next 7 years. Of which around 8.4 billion will be for cohesion policy, somewhere around 2 billion are going for rural development and agricultural policy, and somewhere around 250m euros are going for the development of fisheries in Croatia. This is a huge step, especially because in a year we had two programming processes, one for the other half of 2013, so for those 6 months old perspectives and this now for the 7-year period ahead. In fact, this adoption of programming documents will end when we adopt operational programmes. But the adoption of the Partnership Agreement together with 9 member states in the last week of the old Commission's work, the old European Commission's call is definitely the success of the Croatian government. Here I thank all my colleagues from all ministries and agencies, but also one broad circle of partners from others, I would say the institutions and other sectors in the Croatian state, so from the economy, NGOs, chambers and other institutions that participated in the broad process of partnership consultations. What awaits us now is the intensive application of projects, the negotiation and, of course, the performance in those periods and those deadlines that we have. That's the N+3 rule. So, the project started today, in three years it needs to be realized and we will be fully prepared for such things. Which I would like to emphasise as a key indicator of Croatia's readiness at this time for the job. So only in the last week in seven days have we agreed on a billion and 100 million kunas of project value. 716 million in water supply and still around 370 million 15 major local community development projects. Here, among other things, in the town of Virovitica, I especially mention this because, apart from filling the budget with the original taxes, the time ahead is for all of us to work hard, especially local units to secure funds from the European Funds. The town of Virovitica, the city of Vukovar 360 million worth of project, the 3 year urban budget is that value. So, just to get people to know what it means to set up a real European project. The other day in the town of Klanjc 21 million kuna, two and a half years' budget is people. Therefore, I invite you all to engage in this process. There must be no political difference. There must be no separation, no separation, no quarrel. That's the only place we can do a big job together. 5 billion kuna at this time of active projects in implementation we have, 5 billion kuna co-financed from EU funds 80.90%. By the end of next year we have ready projects and grand schemes, gifts for another 6 billion kuna. So, at the end of next year, at the end of this government's term in carrying out 11 billion kunas of project value. That's what I can promise you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89589	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. The obvious? No, I don't. Thank you very much. There is 13 questions and a respected representative, Ana Komaric Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89590	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister Hajdas-Dončić, and it refers to the Rijeka – Zagreb highway. The 2010 audit report makes it clear that without the help of the owners, the company will not be able to settle its loans or interest on loans. The debt of Rijeka highway – Zagreb is at that time 1.3 billion euros, which means that Croatian citizens will pay back credit from the Rijeka – Zagreb highway for years. Interestingly, the company was in charge by 2004, with a debt of 270m euros, and then with debt rising to 1.3 billion euros from 2004 to 2010. So in six years, we have a billion euros in new debt. How and why? We can all ask ourselves that question here. But Ministers, since the government approved in the last session a new debt from Rijeka highway – Zagreb of 177m euros, and this is to cover the interest for 2014 with naturally state guarantees, my question is. How long are we gonna be in debt? How much will it cost Croatian citizens, and are there any better and alternative solutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89591	Answer, Honorable Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89592	My colleagues, first I'm going to say about the economy, this part actually applies to most of the economy. We need to know the reason why we can talk about the consequences. So, in 2006, in fact, there was a monetization. There was a monetization in a way that the Rijeka highway – Zagreb took 200m euros in credit and paid into the state budget. So, pure monetization, one-time concession. After that, the Rijeka highway – Zagreb continued to be in debt but not for the Rijeka highway – Zagreb was giving money to HAC who was pirating, who was drilling holes in the hills and what we have today, that we have a total accumulated debt of the Rijeka highway – Zagreb and Croatian highways of 4 billion euros, so no interest. And if we could, and we couldn't, we'd pay back that debt in 2039, and that would be exactly 8 billion euros, so double. Rationalally and realistically taking care of both the state budget and the public debt, because we know that both the HAC and the ARZ debt since the tenth month is in line with the new methodology as an integral part of the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. For a year and a half, the government of the Republic of Croatia has actually implemented the concession procedure of the Croatian highways and highways Rijeka – Zagreb – considering that it will directly reduce public debt, which will liquidate the highway of Rijeka – Zagreb I speak termologically in the company. So it will no longer exist, it will no longer have a billion and 100 million euros in debt. And mostly reduce the debt of Croatian highways. We get something even more valuable, which is a billion and 400 million kuna a year for investment in state roads, county roads, local roads and HZI. So that money doesn't usually exist. We are now witnessing that the Croatian roads as well as the Greek counterparts, with the support I will say funds especially from the IP in 2007, started three major investments of bypasses from Split, the bridge on Ciovo and next year around Vodice. And for that, he needs money to co-finance. So I'm not scaring anyone. I'm just saying reality. Yes, on the one hand, we have eight billion euros and 2039, on the other hand we have corporate deleveraging, public debt reduction and investment money. That's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89593	Thank you, too. The obvious? Nothing. Thank you, too, Your Honor. Now it's 14 questions, the respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89594	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm giving my question to the Prime Minister. The state must be a more reasonable consumer, you said yesterday, and I'll tell you you're doing exactly the opposite. 44 agencies currently operate in Croatia. Ten of them have only been loaded since you've been in power. You hired 1,000 people in the agencies at the time. Nearly 6,000 public authorities are currently operating in the Republic of Croatia. One of them is HRT, which, despite 3500 employees, employs new people on a daily basis with net salaries of 17 000 kuna. At the same time, you're reducing funds to local self-government units. For example, money is spent in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts for media and public performances, gifts and calendars, according to the cost list and under the cover of information on EU funds, 240 thousand kuna. HEP directly agreed on 2.5 million kuna for the communication strategy and creative solutions. At the same time, I call on the control authorities to verify these indications whether all tenders are carried out properly and if the conditions of procurement are respected. And I'm asking you, is this the transparency of the work of the body of the public authority? Mr. Prime Minister, why are you ignoring the European Commission's warnings, including in the section on suggestions for improving the quality of public administration and promoting potential GDP growth? You're all calling for more responsible behavior, Mr. Prime Minister, when will you call yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89595	Answer, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89596	I completely agree with you, I have nothing to add to what you said. And proof that everything is more transparent than ever is that you have all that data. It's all visible, it's all visible, and it's going to be seen in the future. You see how simple that is. So I don't really know what you're even asking me. I didn't understand the question, but I agree with you, so you saw what you saw because you can see it, no more hiding, no more behind hours under the table with a couple of party friends. It's over. So if you have any other knowledge, report them. As for HEP, you also mentioned HEP, HEP is a state-owned company that is in one part of the market. Therefore, their administration will be responsible for each of its basic moves, its founder, and that is the government, that is the Croatian state that the government represents. I don't know about these details and at this stage I don't want to know anything, it's a regular business. If you know anything more, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89597	Obviously, a respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89598	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you haven't answered what was inside this question, and that's what you don't want to hear and don't care about, and these are the recommendations of the European Commission. Well, I can only conclude except that you don't read the papers, you don't watch TV that maybe you don't hear well. But maybe I should have just asked you how you were doing? But I'm not so sure I'd like to hear that answer. However, I'll just remind you if you don't know what's going on, I remind you that you have approved 10m euros for renting the space of Minister Zmajlovic, although he has received a man and a bathroom. Who paid for the detective's paranoia agency to bug your second minister? Who owed Croatia, currently our external debt is 46.6 billion euros? If you're not answering the questions I don't know what we'd do with you? One of your ministers tells you because of the shameful state of his ministry that he needs not a minister there but a bankruptcy manager. We've also memorized you for pre-nuptial deals, and Mr. Prime Minister seems to me our country needs a bankruptcy manager.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89599	Thank you very much. 15th question and respected representative Jaksa Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89600	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question goes to Mr. Jakovina. There's a Dalmatian beautiful song written 35 years ago called "The Olive Is Undefense, There's No One To Read It". We now have an example of who can read Mandarins but there's no one to sell them. In that sense, I would ask what the Ministry of Agriculture is thinking of doing to facilitate the placement of our Mandarin producers on both domestic and foreign markets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89601	Answer, Honorable Minister Tihomir Yakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89602	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, your question is actually about extraordinary measures in the fruit and vegetable sector that have been caused or formed following a decision to prohibit the import of certain agricultural products by the Russian Federation, which was on 7 August this year. As I have repeatedly said, the direct effects of this ban are unfortunately not so large and dramatic for the Republic of Croatia because we exported about $15.5 million a year to the Russian Federation market, which is not the number with which we can be satisfied. Much bigger the problem and much more concerns are in fact indirect effects of the ban because over 12 billion euros went to the EU market for agricultural food products on the Russian Federation market. Since the first day of my ministry, the expert team, together with the expert services of committees and councils, has been working on a series of documents to reduce the negative effects on the internal market that we are now an integral part of. And among other things, there were several regulations that we worked on from the Ministry of Agriculture. The first regulation was a Commission Delegated Regulation of 29 August which covered intervention measures of 125m euros for those seasonal fruits and vegetables whose exports to the Russian market were 50% higher and which requested urgent measures because they could not be stored, that is, seasonal fruit and vegetables, we did not participate because we did not have such exits. What we have been looking for since the first day, we have asked for both citrus and agrums to be included in these measures, which totalled exports to the Russian market from the EU area around 19%. That's what we've been able to get so far in the second regulation that covered the quota system for 12 countries we've got 7900 tons of mandarin, the possibility that through measures, three measures we're pulling out of the market and we're placing whether through the non-gathering of fruits, green harvest or the withdrawal of products from the market and humanitarian division, and we've got 4050 tons of apples. What do you say? So far, the measure is going pretty well, for apples over 75% we've withdrawn, not for Mandarins. I would not, although I hear from this one, from this distinguished home and from the EU's speaker, cry for disaster, it is not a disaster. The mandarin crop this year is 60% higher than last year. Our Mandarin and by organoleptic properties, and by quality, and by ageing time from 2 to 3 weeks earlier needs and has its place on the market. Last year we exported only 3307 tonnes to the Russian market, this year we have 80,000 tonnes of crop and I'm sure that with a little more engagement, everyone in the chain than the buyer, the manufacturer, but also using these measures that are quite generous, because we're talking about almost 20 euro centres per kilogram just for the harvested fruit, plus the costs that can be withdrawn, which is preparation, sorting, storage and transportation. So if this is a transport from Dubrovnik, Metkovic to Osijek is about a ransom price, that is, the funds we can withdraw to this extent are over 3.5 kuna. The Ministry held a series, a set of meetings with manufacturers, buyers, we raised the line, we made time regulations, brochures, we sent them, and now we have professional services, and advisory services and ministries down with the office, we help manufacturers and we do everything to make use of the measure by the end of the year. I'm sure with more engagement and less speculation about sales, the effects of that will be great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89603	Appreciation, the respected representative, Jakša Balojevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So listen, I've been motivated, I've been asked by a group of people who deal with mandarin farming, and I have to say in terms of seriousness, that you take this seriously and that you can help as much as you can as a resolution minister, and the ministry as a whole, and even through foreign policy. These people aren't gonna sell one kilo, they're not gonna sell one kilo. It goes all the way to the ground. I've really faced these people, and people have been crying at me about what they're going to do. So I'm really asking you to take this seriously for next year so this doesn't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89605	Thank you very much. Sixteenth parliamentary question and vice president of Zeljko Reiner's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89606	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The question is for the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. In accordance with the law, the Government must make the election date for the President of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the date of the first round of presidential elections, which you have not done by today on 12 November. It is clear to all of us that you and your party want to choose the date that is most suitable for your candidate, Mr Josipovic, i.e. delay the election as soon as possible later. But it is not correct that even two months ago you do not want to reveal to the citizens, so to the voters when the elections will be true. I remind you, in 2011, by supporting the so-called The facebook protests of your current candidate, Mr Josipovic, began talking in early March about the need for the government to announce the date of parliamentary elections that could be announced by January 12th next year, claiming that it was not forcing it on a certain date, but that it was a matter of respect for democratic values, he began to hold consultations, etc. How come it is no longer necessary now to respect democratic values, not even less than two months before the final constitutional deadline for calling these elections, and then it was a matter of respecting the democratic value that elections were announced more than ten months earlier. How is it that neither he nor you now feel the need to stick to not only democratic practices, but also basic political competences common in all countries that require that the election date be announced early enough? I'm asking you when you're finally going to announce the date of the presidential election, if not because of all this I've stated, then because of how they would stop and question whether the date you intend to set is in accordance with the Constitution or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89607	Thank you, too. The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89608	What's this all about me agreeing with so many of your HDZ interventions? I agree with you, I'm actually an unnecessary burden, but so unfortunately, the law determines that the government determines when there will be presidential elections. It says so, so we have to arbitration, we, or I, eventually narrow the cabinet because it is not a procedure that goes organically from the ministry, it is simply a political decision with which someone will always be unsatisfactory. Yeah, maybe we should have. You're right. As for the last moment at which the decision is made, look at democratic practice is all sorts, so in a series of parliamentary democracies in northern Europe, the prime ministers and prime ministers have the right to call elections and disband parliament literally in two weeks. I'm not saying it's good, but it's like that and it's in a democracy that's 200 years old. But it doesn't suit me here, so it's an unnecessary burden. We'll make that decision these days. I'd like you to make a suggestion. It's not clear, so there's a very vague constitution, what does it mean to call the election because it refers to the first round? There is also a theory of the possibility of being the third round of elections, if in the second round of the two candidates get the same number of votes, it is theoretically possible. How does this affect the date of the election? These are all the things I don't really want to deal with as Prime Minister. But since the law says that, I'm gonna have to, and I'm gonna listen to you. So, very soon we're going to set the date of the election and hopefully it won't be any drama because in the end it doesn't matter if the election is a week later or a week earlier. I remember that story constantly for the last 15 years, always going to be a new year, after the new year, how many people are on skis, how many people are on the cabin, I think it's irrelevant. But I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89609	Thank you very much. The obvious, the esteemed representative, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89610	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm glad you agree with me in this... tone. Of course that's hard for you, a lot of things are hard for you, you said now in Sinj three days ago that actually the choice date, that the date of the election at this point is a totally side issue, and you were sidetracked by what the European Commission said and you said that they often make mistakes in the forecasts. Well, of course, the European Commission knows what she, what she knows, who they are to say something fantastic about a successful Croatian economy, etc. But it's worrying that you've already started to admit this publicly that you don't care about it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89611	Thank you, too. It's the 17th parliamentary question. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89612	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Labour and Pensions, Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Dear Minister, in early October you announced new measures to encourage youth employment. These measures consist of the internship of young people who have just left the university, and in order to reduce the large number of unemployment as well as the introduction of employers to qualified staff. So far, the salary for the internship has been 1600 kuna, and the contract has been signed for a year. Yesterday in Opatija, you announced that there would be an increase in work compensation for those covered by these measures from 1600 to 2400 kuna, and you also announced that employers who employ young people will, indefinitely, release part of the salary contribution for a period of 5 years. Also, these days we are witnessing and falling the number of unemployed in Croatia, and especially the fact that the number of unemployed young people is being reduced, and that should be said publicly. My question is, can you present to us the results of the measures of professional training of young people and more specifically explain the initiatives you have announced these days, which I mentioned earlier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89613	Thank you, too. The Honorable Minister Miranda Mrsic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89614	Thank you very much. Croatia is a country which, like the whole of Europe, has problems with the number of unemployed. At this point, a large number of young people in Europe are looking for such important employment. So in 2012, we started very strongly with active employment policy measures where one of the goals was to encourage the employment of young people and we introduced a measure of... the establishment of a working relationship which has already won excellent success in the first year and at this point over 40,000 young people are to this extent, so the measure is very strongly supported in both the citizens and among those young people. What we are predicting for 2015 is to expand the measure even more, and that means to encourage the employer to employ young people so that there are two levels of incentives, and one is that the employer who employs the young person after spending a year with him to this extent... for his employment relationship is freed 50% of the salary contribution. On the other hand, those employers who hire young people whether they were on this scale or not, and aged 15 to 29, if they are employed indefinitely, they will be released grossly 2/5 years. Therefore, contributions to health insurance, employment and work protection contributions will be released, so 17.3%. We understand that 1600 kunas in these conditions in which Croatia is and the situation in which it is, is not enough, but when we introduced it, we had one fact in mind. We could have increased that amount, but we would have caught a lot less young people, so much less we could secure that measure, and then we decided that the compensation would be 1600 kuna with the goal of making as many young people using this measure as possible. By entering the EU by opening the European Social Fund for Youths where we expect more than 60m euros next year, it also allows us to improve this measure in a way that since 01.01.2015 all young people who use this measure will receive 2400 kuna instead of 1600 kuna. I note that we also pay travel costs, on average about 500 kuna is paid and clear health and pension insurance. Also all young people who are now to this extent, and in 01.01.2015 continue to use the measure, instead of 1600 kuna will receive 2400 kuna. We are also pleased with the self-employment measures, at this point over 9,000 young people have gone on this adventure into the labour market with the goal of achieving their idea, but not only to realize but to hire someone else in the future and all of these measures that we have launched have led to a drop in the number of unemployed young people aged 15 to 24 which says the measures are active. Another confirmation of the activity is that over 61% of young people who finish work without starting work after a year find their jobs. We have therefore also significantly expanded the measure for the real sector. These are all measures that are effective, which have clear answers on the other hand, which show that this government, with active employment measures, is effective in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89615	Thank you, Minister. There's no obvious. 18th parliamentary issue today and respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89616	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the question to the Minister of Culture, Mrs Andrei Zlatar Violic. So allow me one quote first. "When a few years ago in the newsstands, pocketbooks began to appear in plasticised envelopes, I was very pleased. I thought the books had begun to conquer the so-called so-called. a wide market. It was an expression of the rapid rise and short breath of political bestsellers. Now that the bookshops are being dragged into the playing dice, the cowboys and the braided baskets, I'm not the luckiest. Only two or three Zagreb bookstores did not give in to market mechanisms, but therefore stares empty, as if there are books waiting for them to end up being driven out by a spectrum, pickles in jars, cakes. I can already see the mustard bottles next to Kant and Hegel, a bottle of wine with a stem of domestic poetry, a salty ham next to realistic novels, vodka with Dostoyevsky, truffles with Molierea, marinated salmon with Wilde, would be given a convenient combination especially in the windows." It's a quote from Madam Minister from your book The Great Savings from the Chapter of Missing Bookshops you wrote in 1993. Despite the fact that everything in this country is a disaster that has been constantly imposed on us by the on-call catastrophes, yesterday you opened the most massive, largest Interliber ever. Please tell us, and given the known financial situation which is the priorities of the Ministry of Culture over the next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89617	Thank you very much. Answer, dear Minister Andrea Zlatar Violić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89618	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Representative, dear colleague Blažekovic. I would refer to yesterday's situation first, so the new data coming from the publishing sphere, because since the '93 text, it's literally been 20 years today, and what we can say is that despite the great trend in the last 4 years, which has been almost parallel since 2008 to the recession crisis, both in the media and in publishing, despite the huge loss of jobs, despite the fall in income, despite the fact that distribution and the publishing of so the number of reports has fallen, the publishers have survived and of course we wondered how. Publishers are still the strongest and strongest cultural industry in Croatia, as in Europe, where we recently signed the European Declaration of Publishing Cooperation at the Frankfurt Fair. Publishers have to say, and here we have all the government support, entrepreneurs who produce culture on one hand, produce artistic and scientific or entertainment reading anyway, but eventually they earn income. And Interliber, which for years is one place of gathering, is actually a cultural event, and in these four recession years there are hundreds of thousands of audiences, and every year increasing income growth despite the decline in price. The specific measures involved in publishing itself in this year concern the promotion of reading, the creation of a new audience, and what seems most important to us is to create opportunities in agreement with the restoring Ministry of Finance, the opening of more favourable credit lines where publishers, as well as other businessmen, could be able to improve their business as people with responsibilities and business risks. However, I would like to emphasise the priorities in the investment section because they are recognised in the 2015 budget. We're lucky there's a anniversary coming together, but the fact that a three-year cycle of work on objects has come to an end. The first museum to open will be the Apoxiomena Museum on the island of Losinj, then it will be the second museum, it is a permanent collection of Vucedol in the archaeological collection in the Vucedol Valley near Vukovar, then there is the Natural History Museum in Metković and two museums that are connected to the anniversary of the 300 years of Sinjska Alka, the Museum of Sinjska Alka and 20 years of the anniversary of the Storm and the Day of Homeland Thanksgiving Museum in Knin. These are not random and happy circumstances, these are the result of concrete planning and long-term work. And what I can say for the future of these museums is that their future is sustainable was that it was a management managerial arrangement with the local community, whether there are other ministries, and I have to say in particular when it comes to the Military Museums of the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Defence when it comes to Knin, and then the Ministry of Tourism when it comes to Apoxyomena and when it comes to the Vucedole of the Ministry that goes together in these projects and we will help all local communities that can't take over funding for maintenance at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89619	Thank you very much. The obvious? Nothing. 19th question, honourable representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89620	Thank you, Mr. President. And I ask Mr. Sinisha Varga, the Honorable Minister of Health. It refers to the exercise of women's rights in the Republic of Croatia to autonomous decision on their own body or to the implementation of legal provisions on deliberate termination of pregnancy. In fact, a recent study was carried out, followed by media reports that several public hospitals in the Republic of Croatia did not perform the medical service or the procedure because all doctors there called for an appeal or called for a conscience. In this way women in these cities and in the areas where they are gravitated by them are deprived of the law guaranteeing the availability of this medical service. I'm sure you're familiar with this problem and I know that the ministry has taken certain steps to ensure the law guaranteeing women's right to this operation, so I'm asking you to introduce us once again to the steps you've taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89621	Thank you very much. The reply of the Honorable Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89622	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MP Leakovic, I thank you for asking. Here, the Ministry of Health has been familiar with the problem for a long time, and with the CESI, we held a meeting at the beginning of October. We are familiar with the results of the survey and we have already taken certain steps to address the problem, or accessibility to improve. Namely, the Health Protection Act and the Health Measures Act for the exercise of the right to freedom to decide on the birth of children are very transparent and classically depicted and decidently defined as exercising the right to this medical procedure and also regulates the question of the right to appeal of conscience by a gynecologist. Given the decidentiality of what is happening in what and what is the case, we have recognized that there have been certain failures by the administration of hospitals and chiefs of gynecology and obstetrics in certain health institutions. We have already held meetings with the sanity managers, i.e. hospital directors, to introduce them to their obligations regarding the implementation of the law of the Republic of Croatia, but also with certain implementing measures to ensure that this availability is also ensured in those hospitals where 100% of all doctors have been called upon to their conscience. What follows now is lawyers and the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with other legal professionals, have made one interpretation of the laws which very Decidedly states how to ensure that healthcare is available in the coming period. And we also, please, appeal to the general public that either by name and last name or anonymously reporting any concessions from or withholding their rights because in this way with targeted control we can be much more effective by removing any barriers to this medical procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89623	Thank you, Minister. The obvious? Nothing. Let's go to Question 20, Honored Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89624	I'm asking the question to a respected prime minister. Although media have repeatedly resisted the disproportionate receipt of property not of the hohstappler life of Eve Sanader, only remember if not another benign affair watches. Although former President Mesic is public 9 years ago that HDZ in the campaigns, especially the one in which counterpart Jadranka Kosor was involved, spends black money. When Mladen Bajic finally woke up for kukuriku, collective psychogenic amnesia arose. In fact, psychogenicly conditioned amnesia leads to the inability to remember just some events. Sanader's closest associates remembered everything except the unearthed and spent millions. However, psychogenic amnesia is not a characteristic of just those of the former government. And your authority has the same and similar symptoms. If Milan Bandic has been embezzling public money and the state institutions say it does sound amazing, unreal, that he has started making public money since the moment he turned his back on SDP. In 2009, when it was written extensively about suspected land swaps and push up toilets for 11 thousand euros per square metre, I quote: "Milan is the best candidate for the mayor of Zagreb, better than all SDPs and all non-SDPs.". In 2013, you say, for the last 4 years and unfortunately longer, I stress, unfortunately and longer, there is one clienteleist team at the head of Zagreb, and everything smells of corruption. How is it that you started to feel the smell of corruption only after Milan Bandic stopped being a member of the SDP? Didn't you know anything, even though as president of the SDP and candidate for prime minister, you should have known? Do you at least feel morally responsible for what happened in Zagreb, under your wing, for a number of years as you claim? Do you feel morally responsible regardless of the amnesia that can cause psychoactive agents, blow to the head, poisoning, bleeding of brain tissue, stress, and the most common political interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89625	Thank you very much. The response of the respected Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89626	Perhaps the public forgot that you were a candidate for the mayor of Zagreb, you got zero percent of the vote, which does not mean that citizens always choose the best, no one is offended. That doesn't mean they chose us best. This does not mean that by choosing the mayor in 2013 they chose the best and so each time. But then again, there's always some reason. So the citizens in you didn't recognize anything at all and in the mayoral candidate, then independent, who we kicked out of the SDP in 2009, just two years after I came to the party's head, it should be different because being president of the party and candidate for mayor is not the same thing. So that's where you're faced with a lot of dilemmas, the challenges and the decisions you have to make, the things you have to tactfully keep quiet, that I don't bother you with right now, is obviously not what you understand. But I'm surprised, I'm surprised that in this way you can insinuate and in fact already a man who hasn't been charged, whatever I think of him, whatever I think of him, you're practically already declaring incarcerated, convicted. I was talking about clientism, clientilism isn't a crime, it can become a crime, it's kind of a broader political advantage to stakeholders who can and don't have to turn into corruption, it's written in every reader. And as for when I saw it, I didn't, I don't know what's going on, I don't know much more than you do, maybe I know something a little more. In this case, the police who are now very ugly are trying to show up and show up three weeks after the action was carried out as someone who designed it all, who autonomously manages the criminal procedure. There's one more thing to say here that the police are law enforcement, how do I put it, the contractor? So he's neither an investor nor a projector. It's not. It tried to be in 2010, 2011 when police filed criminal charges without DORH within 2 weeks against three SDP presidency members. And then DORH dealt with it for months and months, today he couldn't because he changed the law, he had to be obvious earlier, he'd been doing it for months, and he eventually rejected it. So it was the last attempt by the police, specifically by people who are giving us lessons today to put the police in a position to put pressure on the DORH. It's not illegal, but deeply immoral. So people probably thought there were elements to the crime scene. The police don't do that anymore. So the police are directly coordinated, directly coordinated, directed by the DORH. There's the DORH in charge. So the DORH makes decisions, all key decisions are made by the DORH. The police are much less independent than in the American movies I believe you're watching, and as soon as things start, you have to keep the DORH informed. There is another element that completely exposes these insinuations, which is that no investigative measure, no follow-up measure can be taken without a court, and that is the county judge who approves such measures. No one has influence on such people and can have no influence, nor can the President of the Court or the Prime Minister. So too many people, too many careers, too many fates, too much if you want normal human selfishness involved in this so that someone would sacrifice their career, reputation, freedom after all, to haunt someone. Those who made that decision a few weeks ago, which is the DORH, put their career, reputation, reputation, reputation, not on the line, but on the test. The court will decide and that's what this story is all about. I ask you not to insinuate in this way anymore because there are people in Croatia who are not yet clear, but I guess you all understand what the police can, what they can and where their competences stop. Point, end of story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89627	Commentary, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89628	First of all, I have neither condemned nor spoken of Mr. Milan Bandić as guilty, first of all, that's what you said. Secondly, the state institutions said they had reasonable doubts and raised investigative actions. You are in court with Mr. Milan Bandic precisely because he sued you for slandering him for a man deep in corruption. It's a pure replacement of thesis. I didn't get 0% of the votes but slightly less than 2% of the votes, but that's a lot more than your candidate got in the Zagreb elections with big machinery and a lot of money spent. Remember what you said in 2009, 2013 and what you're saying now. Yes, you've seen it later. How is it that you started to smell corruption in Zagreb after Milan Bandic was not expelled, but that he threw himself out because he ran for president of the state? He left the SDP alone. You just had to kick him out because he ran as a member of the SDP. And until then, it didn't smell like corruption, but it smells like corruption when Mr. Milan Bandic didn't, it was politically appropriate for you that he was winning on behalf of the SDP, regardless of whether it smelled or didn't smell like corruption, and of course the court will decide. Neither am I at any point, listen again to my question, claim that Milan Bandic is guilty or that he will be convicted. It is your insinuation, and yet when they rule the wicked and you are day after day as evil and unempathetic and when there is ignorance, it is no wonder that virtues and goodness are not at the price. You can't stand virtues, and you don't know kindness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89629	21st question, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89630	A question for the Prime Minister. Who is eligible by destroying the Immunological Institute, for whose account it is done, at whose expense we know it, at the expense of public health. But the question is, for whose benefit, the government allows the Immunological Institute to fail. I am starting from the assumption that you will follow the implementation of the State Property Management and Availability Strategy in which the Immunological Institute is included in the category of developmental importance for the Republic of Croatia. The government also appoints the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. I don't know if you've heard or read that the Immunological Institute lost part of the license for its products, that employees don't receive salaries, that they strike but work to try to save what is being saved, while at the same time according to the media in Croatia, blood plasma is being destroyed because it is not being processed. Having an immunological institution that produces antitoxins, viral and bacterial vaccines and processes blood plasma, is a real fortune for public health. In Croatia, it is destroyed, in a country where a system of voluntary blood donation is so developed, blood is free of charge, and what is particularly important with minimal disinfection. I think it takes a great ability to destroy itself in such an environment. If it is not a great ability, then it is a criminal intention to destroy such an institution of public health importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89631	Answer to the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89632	Dear Mr. Representative, we are not destroying the Immunological Institute but we are doing exactly the opposite, we are trying to save it and find an investor but without tiny dogs with a home union that some are doing here rather than in the interest of a strong, important Croatian firm, and all the information about it will be given in writing by the Ministry of Economy which is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89633	Commentary, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89634	Mr. Prime Minister, of course I'm looking for a written answer, I'm not satisfied. But I must remind you, it has been as of today 380 days since the Croatian Parliament adopted the Strategic Investment Projects Act at the proposal of your Government. The media recently announced, and great promises were made that the law would lead to a major investment boom. In 380 days of 59 projects 3 are included in the strategic category, the other 56 will be in 18 and a half years because that is the pace you are working on implementing it. But what's the problem, why isn't the Immunological Institute a strategic investment project for this government? There's no blood plasma in Europe and the world, and it pays dearly. So much minimal blood contamination that exists in Croatia, and on this Minister Varga can tell you more about it is the fact itself, the very proof that the economy minister cannot play with the Immunological Institute and try to sell it to foreigners. It's a national resource that doesn't allow, you can't stand to accuse me of playing dogs with domestic unions, and I'm talking about the public health interest. Immunologically except for economics has a public-health interest. And that's why I'd ask you not to send me an answer from the Minister of Economy, because his abilities we've seen all these three years. I ask your answer to explain to me why Immunology is not the strategic investment project of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89635	The 22nd question is asked by Vesna Fabiančić Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89636	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of social policy and young Milanka Opačić. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we have heard announcements that the debt write-off limit to the most vulnerable citizens will be raised from 10,000 to 25000 kuna. Can you confirm that information for us? Can you tell us what results you expect from this and how many rounds of people at risk would be covered by that measure. And since this is not only the attitude of citizens and government but also the attitude of citizens and business entities as negotiations take place on the subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89637	Answer the question, Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89638	Thank you very much. So it's a process we've been working on for the past few months, the finance minister and I. We have held talks with those who hold the largest number of debts, which are public companies, or state-owned companies, that is, banks and telecommunications operators. From that, the banks agreed to write off their debts, and the teleopers are still negotiating with them. The second week is another round of talks, and we hope that they will also accept this type of write-off debt to those who are the poorest, who did not really pay their commitments, not because they did not want to, but because they were objectively found in a difficult economic situation and could not pay them. We also talked to four major cities from which we received a equally positive decision to write off debts cumulatively up to 10,000 kunas to those who are the most vulnerable. The criteria we have put together are very rigorous and everyone has agreed to these criteria that they are actually something that can lead to debt write-offs. We also held talks with representatives of cities, communities of cities and municipalities. This is about each unit of local self-government having to make its own decision. There may also be those who can't because their utility is in a difficult economic situation, but this is about one project where we can't order anyone to write off their debts. We can only go to a certain agreement or memorandum that we will sign with each other with those who have the highest number of debts in their portfolio that, therefore, go to write-offs according to certain criteria. Of course, every part of the country will also receive that part of its work, which is that it has to give certain confirmations to ensure that all write-offs are indeed written off to those who need it. When it comes to this amount of 25000 kuna, it will most likely refer only to these state-owned companies. So these others can then decide if they can write off more, I can. So this is about one process and a project where we can't force anyone to make any decisions. We can only win them on one joint agreement, and now I've told you how many we've received, so in a table interview that they're willing to write off because they're aware that these debts will never be able to charge because the costs for paying these debts are much higher than what is a real debt. And I think that's how we're going to give people who really are, here we are, just barely holding their head over the water a little bit of air and making it a little easier for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89639	We are moving on to 23rd question and colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89640	Thank you. I will ask my question to the minister, Mrs. Anki Dark Taritash. Dear lady, can you explain and explain above all to the Croatian public why you are not effective in removing their base stations as many as 21 illegally placed in the middle of a residential settlement, and near the school in the city of Dubrovnik. Namely, a powerful removal solution has been made by your ministry at the end of 2011. You were also familiar with that fact and my question some year ago answered that by this autumn you would put it in your priorities and that they would be removed. But the fall has long begun, almost winter, and the base stations are still in the same place. Here I have no time to enter into the debate that is certainly needed in the Croatian Assembly on the harmfulness of the radiation of base stations and the legitimate fear of citizens living in the immediate vicinity. But I would like to point out that over 2500 Dubrovnik citizens have signed a petition on the immediate removal of these base stations because they are primarily concerned about the health of their children. That they are justly concerned about speaking and many independent studies, not those financed by telesurgery operators, but independent studies by both the World Health Organization and the specific last study it has done... which in April 2014 found that there is a significant impact on genetic changes, so on the cellular changes in people when we talk about this type of radiation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They even clearly said it was genotoxic radiation. So it's very justified, and we see every day in Croatia that petitions are happening in a town and people are going out under these set base stations and protesting. So why haven't you removed these stations in Dubrovnik by now?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89641	Thank you. Secretary Anka Dark Taritash's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89642	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Yes, indeed in this distinguished home we were already talking about when there was another theme about base stations, and then I said that in the fall when the demolitions were going down and those base stations were going down. As the Croatian public is familiar with we have had the collapse this spring. This summer, we crashed what we destroyed in a flooded area, so the buildings we were supposed to remove. And a new crash set starts at the 15th this month, or rather the 15th is said on Saturday, leaves on Tuesday and Wednesday, and will be by the end of the year. And we're moving on the seashore, and we're moving on land because we have five teams that are going to do it. And in the crash plan by the end of the year are the base stations you mention. Base stations must be a special topic. Here is today one of the associations that deals with this problem comes to talk to the ministry and this is the topic on which we need to sit down and sit down a few resistors, see what is the real situation, see what the real problem is and try to find a solution to that. So, there were two topics in your question. One topic was to deal with the base stations, and we really need to deal with the health and environmental and nature resources and then the building and spatial planning portfolio in terms of where and how to plan them. So it's something that's a topic to sit down and talk about. And the first topic you set is destruction. Indeed, the crashes begin next week and in the plan and programme are also the crashes in the Dubrovnik area, including what you're talking about. So what I said this spring when there was another topic really will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89643	Commentary, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89644	Thank you. Well, I'm pleased with the announcement to remove the cells by the end of the year, and I hope that it will welcome all these citizens who signed the petition. But I don't see any reason for such a long technical delay, I really don't see any reason. Because it's not about having to bring in a bugger 'cause the buffer won't definitely go to that building that 21 base stations were placed on. So it's really one very simple technical removal of these base stations and the exclusion of theirs and that teleoperators who own it actually remove them themselves and place them somewhere else where it's possible to place them. However, the question arises: do petitions of citizens need to be signed in order for the ministry to respect its own rightful solution? It's been three years. There's no excuse why it didn't go before to remove them. Indeed, the question is, is it more important to profit teleopers than the health of children and other citizens? I hope it's not yours, and I hope you realize this as you have announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89645	24th question and colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89646	Here's a thank you. I prepared and announced a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Agriculture is one of the strategic branches of the Croatian economy. In the Republic of Croatia over 60% of the state agricultural land is unprocessed. More than 37,000 hectares have been unsolved and untreated in Istria County. In the debate before the law was passed on behalf of the IDS club, I warned that the state agency would be a narrow throat and that people working in the agency would not be familiar with the situation, situation and problems on the ground. Since last year, since the law was amended and powers transferred to a centralised state body in Istria, only two tenders have been conducted so far. One area of less than 3 hectares and another area of 240 hectares, which has caused major misunderstandings and major conflicts on the ground in the area of Čepic polje. Someone, whether from the ministry or agency, wants the land assigned to the OPG from Zapresic for planting olives and nuts at 80 hectares, and that the land wants to be disposed of by cattle farmers who have been working the land for the past 20 years. The lesser importance of absurdity is that in the last 2,000 years, no olive or nut crop has been planted on that land, but the point is that the land wants to be thrown out of the land to which it is all, which of the fruits of the country live, which have educated their children for heirs and who have borrowed credit. I bet that's socially inadmissible and economically incorrect and my question to you, Mr. Minister, is it ready to protect these people and in what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89647	Thank you. Minister Tihomir Jakovina responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89648	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. The esteemed colleague of the Agricultural Land Agency shall carry out tenders on the availability of agricultural land in accordance with the law which has been confirmed in this House. And they can announce amendments and additions to the law in question to make it even more spotty, even faster, even more easier and more transparent in implementation. The basic three components for the possibility of obtaining agricultural land are a quality economic programme, so far peaceful enjoyment or some form of contractual land use and the price itself. In the area of the Municipality of Kršan, which you say is the competition in question, we had 9 production units. On 8 production units, one economic operator in the livestock sector, which has a particular priority in the evaluation of the economic programme, and as far as I have noticed from you or the local population, or representatives of the municipality and locals, there were no objections. Although the exemplified price was quite low. On one production unit again, according to the positive provisions of the law, one OPG, which is not domestically from the area of the municipality but also from the economic programme and at the offered price, was registered more points and was more favourable. We can't do negative selection, whether something suits us or doesn't fit in choosing who's going to work and who gets the chance to process agricultural land. The assessment of the economic programme was at the price offered, given that there was no one on that production unit who had previously had any contractual possibility of using agricultural land. What I can say is, I have ordered from my services and a detailed report on the competition in question, but that in the coming months and years to come we will follow the implementation of an economic programme and the rise of a long-term plant that has not been here so far to see that, in accordance with the proposed economic programme and the decision on the award for administrative lease, this economic programme is being implemented. If it is not implemented in the way it was offered in the tender itself, the contract will be terminated and the competition will be called again. Otherwise in the Istrian County since the entry into force of the new law in total, I have to correct you a total of 334 hectares is scheduled, but this can not only be done by the agency, the agency must also receive a request from the units of local self-government and therefore spotlessly review the tenders. What we have done has been reduced by the additional procedure because all the strong certificates that were to be obtained, which were also units of local self-government or interested farmers, entrepreneurs who themselves were to collect. Now the employees within the agency are working so that about 10 or 12 documents that are accompanying documentation, which refers to DGUs, courts, forests, water, demining centres and all that was to be collected are now running a system for end-users and we have shortened the procedure from about 114 to 120 days to 3 weeks. When I have a detailed report, I'll forward it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89649	A comment by Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89650	Here's a thank you. From the answer of Mr. Minister, it is evident that the right people, the true farmers who have been in possession of land for 20 years, are not ready to protect. You didn't mention that it was a fundamental matter, and in the debate on our part it was said either at the time or before the law was passed that no land supply program was thrown out. If it were preserved, what had been installed by Racan's government and kept all the governments these people today would not have been expelled from the land. We warned and pointed out that the right to first lease all those in possession was a protective mechanism. If you wanted to solve the machinations because of some previous situations, this system was actually made quite the opposite and favored by the powerful and to the detriment of small family economies. And instead of taking care of these little family economies, this law puts them in a position of subjugation. I will ask you kindly to provide me with your testimony in writing with a view to the competition in question, otherwise we will have to ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law and, as IDS, to go into the procedure of amending the Law on Agricultural Land.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89651	The 25th question is asked by counterpart Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89652	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to refer the question to Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Ms. Milanki Opačić. Dear Vice-President, these days, the Croatian public was ruthlessly surprised by the devastating data that came from UNICEF's research, which speaks of our citizens' poverty, the most about child poverty and their social exclusion. No one from our government has spoken to the public about it, even though our media has written about it, and some relevant media in our neighborhood, in Europe. The Republic of Croatia has been in crisis for many years, and as such a country should have a good social policy, a good social programme to prevent such phenomena and not continue to happen. Since 2008, the number of poor children has increased by 50% and today has had 30% of socially endangered children who are also socially excluded. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategy against poverty and social exclusion in March this year, thus detecting certain risk groups. So my question relates to the occasion of a minister, which programs with which the factors bearers of activity, so you have foreseen deadlines to help those who are already in poverty, that is, to prevent this phenomenon from having this kind of data. In fact, our social policy is obviously going in some other direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89653	Deputy President Milanka Opačić answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89654	So, my ministry and the general government of the Republic of Croatia has very good cooperation with UNICEF and we know about this research, and we also know that there are children who have these problems because of this we intervened in the last Social Care Act with one change in an article where we said that if parents, not as the gentleman said, do not know how to dispose of funds, but there is one part of parents who are irresponsible and who spend money on other things, then we said that the welfare centre can pay children directly from the social compensation warm meal. So it's about specific groups in Croatian society where we simply tried to find a mechanism to intervene to protect children. On the other hand, for the first time, we have made a strategy to fight poverty because we have seen that one part of the people sink into our poverty and that, despite the fact that we have made a reform of social benefits and tried much better to target social benefits and we have increased the monetary compensation for singles by 100 kuna for example. singles are the same group that sinks heavily into poverty. But of course we're much more sensitive to children. This is also about a number of children whose parents have not resolved their status in the Republic of Croatia, so one part of this border area, and one part of the county that is bound edgely to these neighbouring countries. There is a large corps of people living in the Republic of Croatia but do not have Croatian citizenship because they have no basis for obtaining it. That's why we can't even pay them any social benefits, and that's one part of the people we're really at risk. That's what we're trying to do through associations. This year, for the first time, we have formed new projects that we have funded through associations to try to react a little to poverty in both older people and children, so we have opened special programs this year in this direction. And for the next year, we also predicted new projects that would go through associations because we think they're much more flexible and that it's much easier to intervene in areas that are really somewhere, let's just say, we have some kind of light that we have a red light on. And what we did last week, it's that we sent a memo to all school principals telling them once again that when they see the problem of a child at school, they'll call the Social Care Center. Some of the things that have appeared in the media have not been correct by individuals in the education system because they have not informed the Centre for Social Care and that is not good. It is not good for politicians and demagogues to work on children because they find it much more important to help them. So, once again, I call on all people who work in education, who come in contact with children who have problems with their parents' low social status, to call the Center for Social Care because the centre has mechanisms and one-time assistance and enhanced social assistance that they can give, therefore there is no reason for a part of our children to really live in the poverty zone. And in the end, I'd just like to say that in the past year, yes, one part of the people were removed from the welfare system that had no right to do so, but we also got more than 16 thousand people into the social care system, which also shows a bad social picture, but for a solution to that social picture can only help us develop the economy and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89655	Commentary, colleague of Nada Murganić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89656	Dear Vice President, what you're saying is that these are just individual cases from some of the edges of our country, it's not exactly because the percentage of really poor, and especially children is too big. You've said a lot that you've done, but a lot has not been done because the priorities of both this ministry and this government have been quite elsewhere. In this House, hundreds of regulations were passed during the Kukuriku coalition. The Social Care Act itself has changed three times. This latest intervention in the law that is now in the urgent debate is dedicated mainly to staffing, wants to be stopped in jobs, the director of the centre institutions that you appointed with the desire to stay in institutions regardless of whether they are needed by these institutions, while at the same time not giving consent to those personnel who are directly working with children. It's been cadrevirated by the ministries, and at the same time, the Social Care Act that you're talking about, you said yourself that it's a lifesaver, and it has abolished a number of material and monetary benefits and a number of social services, and so now we have results in this research just like we do. I'm talking about social inclusion, how we're going to have socially involved children when we can't pay for a ride to school, when we can't afford small children, to provide them with preschool education, when children with developmental difficulties don't have an assistant who will literally bring them to school, when we shut down institutions and departments where they could get some kind of education, we don't have a defectologist, and those we have, we don't know how and how they would even get to those kids in their homes because these expensive cars are intended, ministers, someone else, not professional workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89657	Thank you. 26th question, colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89658	I'd like to thank Madam Vice President of the Government, I'm sorry, Madam Vice President of the Parliament. My question, I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister... Mr. Branko Greek. Dear Minister, my question concerns the Law on Regional Development and the Law on, or the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income. In fact, both of these laws will leave part of the units of local self-government without part of the revenues in their budgets, especially those of municipalities and cities that had mountainous area status. Therefore, my question is what the Government, or your ministry, is planning to do to compensate for this loss, and I am particularly emphasising here on the territory of Gorski Kotar, because the municipalities and cities in Gorski Kotar, although they have a relatively high index of development, also have a whole series of specific problems that are related to their mountainous location, namely the rural area where these municipalities are located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89659	This is Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89660	Thank you very much for asking, dear colleague. So there's two areas here. One is the change in income tax that brings cca a billion 600 to a billion kuna pay hikes by about a million of our Croatian employees, those who receive wages. And the second thing is, therefore, the amendment of the Regional Development Act, which for the first time fully respects the development index, so the new categorisation of areas that require certain state aid. As far as this first one is concerned, the compensation measures are likely to be already in the government tomorrow, it is an increased share of local self-government units in income tax, it is a relatively small but yet increased share of counties in income tax, it is a measure that goes to redistribute income from property tax in favour of local self-government units and it is a measure that gives total income from interest on savings to local self-government, so something that will not remain a state and will serve certain compensations to local self-government. That's the way we're going, we won't be able to compensate for all the funds that units of local self-government with these changes in favour of losing citizens, but one good part we'll compensate for. As far as this second section is concerned about amending the Regional Development Act, you see I understand all units of local self-government, mayors and mayors who lose that status for the next three years, so not immediately but in the next three years that they are simply not satisfied with it. However, over the past 20 years, something has changed, which is that some units have simply grown and that they have exceeded that famous limit of 75% of the Croatian average. On the other hand, what is forgotten, and these units and these mayors and mayors are less loud, and there are as many as a hundred of them compared to these 65 who receive the status of assisted areas. So these are units that so far neither swear from the budget for 20 years, 24 years of the Croatian state have not received and that is the message. I should tell you, there are a lot of Slavs here we have talked to them a lot about the NUC2 region that the Croatian state takes care of them etc. 95 units of 100 of these units have never received assistance before is from northern Croatia from Međimurje to Slavonia, and most of all in Slavonia. So do those units deserve that measure? They deserve it, and that's why we did it. We've gathered enough courage to go into such a radical procedure to help the least developed units of local self-government, what the previous government has started, and it's never done, and that's a fact. Therefore, there will be compensation that is the way out for these units in three years, in the first year there is compensation even at up to 65% of total loss of funds based on income tax and profit tax. As far as mountain-mounted areas are concerned, two more sentences remain, the Law on mountain-mounted areas, very soon you will have on the benches of the Assembly here, he will receive new measures very quickly in the content of the laws which will, in a special way, treat mountain-mounted areas according to the new Regional Development Act. So new measures for those units that won't be weakly betrayed. There will be good measures, about what Croatian islands today have. So we go in this direction to assisted areas and two levels of islands and mountain-mounted areas, it's a new system and we build it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89661	Thank you very much. 27th question from a colleague, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89662	I want to ask the question to the President, Mr Milanovic. Mr. President, we agree that without free media there is no democracy. I'm sure you and I, we don't agree with our party ex-partners here. Without media, no democracy, no free media, no freedom of speech, no freedom of the media, no pluralism. But I'm just saying that because of the shutting down of media freedoms in Istria, crime, drugs, nepotism, Istria is significantly lagging behind. We had GDP in 2001. 37% higher than the republican average, today 27. We then had 20% higher GDP than the Primorje-Gorski County today 2%, 18% less than the city of Zagreb, today about 40% less. I claim that, among other things, this is the consequence of a policy like this. Of course, there are great journalists in Istria, and it even seems strange to us living down there and free media, really strange, but there are free media. As long as we're gonna see this through financially, but there's free media, and we have to admit it. However, those who are the most generously funded public money from Mikulic's TV Nova, this has nothing to do with the New TV that notes both in the co-ownership of Istrian cities and the County of Istria, as well as the Voice of Istria, conduct an unprecedented censorship of anyone who does not think as a team who finances them with public money. They don't even want to deliver an answer to how much money they get on that basis. The Pluralism Fund gives them a million kunas a year, they shut up. In a year, they spend 15 million kunas on these purposes for four years in elections with a advantage of 60 million kunas on anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89663	Ask your colleagues a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89664	And the question, how long will such a practice be tolerated and as long as it will remain silent and until it delivers...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89665	Thank you. President Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89666	I can't help you there. It is like in some other cities, so I don't point a finger at anyone here because I don't know these things, but I think the money that units of local and regional self-government in all of Croatia is being used in some local and regional self-government units in the city of Zagreb to help certain media, we know that. Is that so in Istria I don't know and can't claim that, it's you... But I am saying this because it is, in principle, not looking at a transparent way of helping what the Croatian government and I do not have at our disposal. So the government can't do that. That kind of favoring isn't feasible, at local level is whoever's in power. When you asked that, then I will say what I see, and I see that especially in some units with large budgets that game, so these are gifts to certain media and that if nothing else should be completely transparent that citizens know specifically in Zagreb where we pay a 18% tax where public money goes because the area of discretionary decision-making is big, much bigger locally than at the state level. At the state level, the rules are stricter or there is no such money at all. So the Croatian government can't give, except of course the HRT that's been dealt with by law, no media here, I don't know you 200 thousand kuna, be good and remember me, there isn't, but there's a local level. So it's a much wider story than Istria and I don't want to speak specifically except for some of the things we saw in the city of Zagreb, it's not good. But it is for citizens and politicians to point out that they are criticizing and seeking responsibility. There's nothing more the government can do about it. So once again, I don't know what's going on in Istria, I don't live in Istria, I don't follow local media, but I always remember what happens where I live and where I see something. And that's what we should talk about all the time. Because independent media, as much as it sounds like a phrase to someone, is not a phrase, so a very important instrument and an institution of liberal democracy are very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89667	Commentary, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89668	Tragically, the government can't help it. If the government can't help, I don't know who's just going to change. But here I agree with you, not the government's problem, no media freedom, no democracy without free media. Well, yesterday, the day before yesterday, one Mr. List was declared even a drug dealer, until at 21.29 p.m. your Minister Mr. Ostojic denied it. So where does this practice just go? We were just listening to a question about agricultural land. So let it be audited and sold from agricultural land where local politicians are, I say 50 of them bought the entire municipality of Istria. Enough of this practice. I say three things why Istria today stagnates robbery and drugs, number three nepotism and media freedoms, more specifically media control. I dare say, I don't have to be right, I didn't live in those times, but that media control today in those areas is more brutal than for fascism and communism. And that public money control has seduced your coalition partner IDS. You can get 48% of the votes in Pula but not a second on this Mikolić TV Nova, which is TV and the city of Poreč and the city of Pula and Rovinj and the Italian Union, and it is funded with millions and millions of kunas. And let's not think that people in Istria want party media, that they only want one piece of information. Because without it, there's just no progress. The lie becomes true, we keep going round and round and back. And when I mentioned before the gross social product in the period when it grew in 2002-2010 in Istria growing at 48%, The Croatian average was 58%, in Rijeka.../Speaker disabled./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89669	counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89670	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My question was addressed to Mrs Vesni Pusic, Foreign and European Affairs Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. The question goes in the direction of your response to the public regarding your visit to Central Asia at the end of the 10th month when you visited Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, at that moment the eyes of some of our businessmen, above all the shipbuilders were against you since there was a small problem with the delivery of the ship to Turkmenistan. And at that point, unfortunately, through our media, I would say inconsistencies about the result of your visit to Turkmenistan as well as other countries. Since I hope you have the knowledge that that path you took at the end of the 10th month has already received certain results and effects nicely please inform us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89671	Vice President Vesna Pusic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89672	Thank you, Madam Vice President, thank you, Madam Representative, for asking. As for the unwitting, simply untrue, which may be more precise since it was said about a visit to Turkmenistan where it was said that our delegation did not receive the president there, on the contrary, the president there not only received our delegation for an hour but also in the middle of next year will come to Croatia. Telegraphic results, the Turkmenistan shipbuilding of two ferrys that have been ordered, one in Volga at this time on the road to the Caspian Sea from San Petersburg, the other will arrive in the spring as those waterways were frozen in the meantime. President Turkmenistan was satisfied enough with our co-operation on the project to announce that he had ordered two more ferrys, in this case railways. Ericsson Nikola Tesla, at this time representatives of Turkmenistan are in Croatia at Ericsson Nikola Tesla for Co-operation. Monday, representatives of Gredelja went to Turkmenistan for co-operation in the production of railway cars. Kazakhstan 14 billion euros, the prime minister announced at our meeting a fund, investment in housing, rail network, highway network and power grid. In all these areas agreed co-operation with our companies, yes, in our delegation was also a representative of the Viaduct, i.e. the chairman of the Viaduct administration with us in Turkmenistan. Azerbaijani in the right order of energy co-operation but in talks with President Ali, three additional ships were announced that had been mentioned earlier but somehow stopped, and those negotiations stopped. President Aliev announced that he would be activated after the merger of their two shipmen, their order is for those three ships. So these are all the negotiations that have been conducted with Uljanic and Turkmenistan and Azerbaijani, but since it is five ships, we will see how it will be negotiated to the end. Azerbaijan is unusually interesting to us, i.e. the key to gas supply, Azerbaijani gas in Europe and for the existence of Croatia's alternative source, source and gas supplier. So it is not a gas that would only be for Croatia, the pipeline from Albania would go where it has already been planned, so through Turkey, Greece, Albania, Italy, Albania and the Adriatic-Ionian pipeline, we have already agreed on a whole series of steps that we are already taking as a joint project.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89673	Commentary, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89674	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. So this is just proof that the government is actively involved, and in particular here is the Foreign Ministry which you promised the Vice-Presidents that the Foreign Ministry will be actively involved in the economic promotion of the Republic of Croatia. These quite concrete results indicate that the Croatian Government has not given up that some unwitting people can write and speak both from Croatian shipbuilding and other activities where Croatia has comparative advantages and where it can certainly place its products and its services in the countries of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89675	29th question, colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89676	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I question the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Milanovic. We are witnesses of the deficit of the state budget, we are witnessing newspaper inscriptions where we see that every cabinet lacks funds, Croatian citizens are called on to give up, to be prepared to pay the price. Today, it is already possible to read about wage cuts in the coming months. In January 2012, the government made a decision on the use of official cars, mobiles, business cards and prescribed who they were and how they were entitled to do so. Can you tell us, Mr. Prime Minister, who the heads of the government's body have used the opportunity to grant additional approvals to non-apostrophe officials in their decision to have the right to, say, 24-hour use of an official car. Which are officials who have been granted an additional right to use such cars that have been entitled to use credit cards, who have been given the right to travel by business class and who have been given the right to represent on behalf of those authorities of the state administration and how much that cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89677	President Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89678	I can't answer that because I have a clear conscience. That's not the kind of thing I do, and if I find that someone's abused, they'll answer, but they've abused it. I start with people doing their job responsibly, sometimes they have to evaluate something and make a decision, sometimes they act linearly. The rules are relatively clear. I'm going to tell you an example, the other day there was a construction site where a local company, a public company they like to show some of your representatives who were there with me, was planning some kind of party in a nearby restaurant. When we saw that, we went to lunch on the cost of the party, our party, and that's done. I remind you just because you won't forget what system you lived in and what system you were assistant minister and who your party was president. I'm not saying it's some big gesture, but on such examples sometimes we can react. No one noticed or wrote that, nor did any journalists talk about it. It was common when some work was opened to rent, then to prepare a pile of food, to go to a nearby restaurant to make traffic. State-owned companies shouldn't do that, it doesn't make sense. I see you find that very funny. Well, I was watching you too. It's not funny, it's serious stuff, but it's small things. If you want to make a political profit on them, go ahead, but I'm asking you not to do it. So I can't give you an answer to these things, if someone flew business class, if anyone, say I have a regulation to use first class. I don't fly first class, I guess even the President of the Republic, when we fly overseas, we don't fly. ... /The noise in the hall./... We're not flying first class. Do you know about that? You don't know. Ask her that. I don't know how much it's saved on that. We'd probably be promoted to one class without cost, but we've never asked for it in companies. So that's how we try to function. That there's mistakes, there's failures, there's recklessness, but there's no organized violations of regulations, there's no rackets, you know. So you ask the Prime Minister if he knows exactly who has the right to a card, I don't know, I don't have a government card, he probably has my head of protocol, I guess he does. But these are all the things you know and you know how it used to be and you know how it is, you know how it's done now. You don't expect to clap, but that's a big, deep difference from once. Here. I'm boring, isn't it? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89679	Commentary, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89680	Not that it's boring, it's more tragically the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, already in March of the month you received a parliamentary question with exactly what I've asked you now, so you got a rush in June of the month, so you got a rush a month ago Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So you're the one who broke the law because you were obliged to respond within 30 days. You're the one hiding the transparency of the data and saying you don't know it. If you don't know, then hire your co-workers that you hired with you in the cabinet on the pretext that they'll leave when the government leaves. You hire one of these thousands of people you've found a job for certain agencies to write to you, and then you'll find out, Mr. Prime Minister, that your team in some ministries has raised not for twice, but for a triple. That certain officials are driving you on weekends with drivers and outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that there is no respect for that provision by your Government. Therefore, you are the one who violates the law because you were obliged to respond within 30 days or explain why you cannot answer. And as the President of the Parliament today said, 27 are such answered questions by MPs who ask questions because citizens from the field are asking them, and it only proves how much you care about Croatian citizens, including representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89681	30th question, colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89682	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A question for Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Rank Ostojic. The Honorable Vice President, from 2004 in the Road Safety Act of Article 222, was a provision: "The driving licence is issued with a period of validity until the 1980s of the driver's life and changes every 10 years." After 80 years of life, the driver’s license is issued on a deadline marked in medical conviction and for 5 years at most. On 13 July this year in the Croatian Parliament, following the amendment of the same provision, it reads: "The driving licence shall be issued with a period of validity of 10 years and up to 65 years of driver's life. For the extension of the driving licence after 65 years, the driver is required to undergo a medical examination. The primary objective of amending this law was to bring the law in line with the EU acquis on the use of safety belts and child restraint systems in vehicles as well as the ban and use of mobiles in all vehicles. In addition to these changes to the small door, an amendment was made which, according to the Croatian pensioner's assessment, meant discrimination against drivers over 65 years of age and an additional cost of household around 600 kuna. According to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, any position of any person based on age, or years of life, represents a period of discrimination. The Croatian Retirement Party Club believes that only the driver’s health status, his family doctor, can be an indication of health examination in the extension of the driving licence, but in no case automatic after 65 years of life. The question is: Whether or not the Ministry of the Interior will propose to amend this disputed provision for the reasons set out above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89683	It's the vice president, Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89684	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Answering today's question, I must first of all say that this House, as you yourself said in July, discussed amendments and amendments to the law, has not been changed to a small door and 5.8 has entered into force so that after 65 years the driver's license can be extended to 10 years, but that a health check should be carried out. The reasons that were precisely that with years of age there was a weakness of psychophysical abilities, that we could not talk about discrimination because then retirement would be discrimination, although certainly some can, after 65 years, work etc. Therefore, the reason lies in the following data, which is that of the 4,000 car accidents that occurred in 2013, unfortunately three-quarters of the drivers blamed them, were drivers who were over 65 years old and unfortunately killed 41 people in those car accidents. The efforts of the police as part of the repressive system are also a reduction in the number of deaths and a reduction in the number of traffic accidents, and these were the reasons why in this law this Croatian Parliament only three months ago debated the same provision, which is to protect those who are drivers, but also those who remain in traffic and are younger than 65 years old. It should be said that the circus of 10% of drivers is over 65 years old. It is quite a large number of almost 2 million drivers in the Republic of Croatia. But we think that the value of the medical review is much more important to do than having a situation like this that is unfortunately happening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89685	A comment from my colleague, Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your response, but I cannot be satisfied because it turns out that Croatian drivers are practically the worst drivers in our Croatia. Your interior ministry statistics show that in all accidents the 65+ generation participates in 8 and a half percent of accidents. The fact is, these are drivers who are very experienced and who are cautious road users. We've extended the retirement system to 67 years. All statistics show that life expectancy has been extended, but we are now doing something that does not exist in EU member states. I'll just let you know how it's done in other countries. No renewal of driver's licenses in Belgium, France, Germany, is renewed in Denmark after the 70th year with the confirmation of a family doctor. In the Netherlands after 70 years every five years without medical examination. In Great Britain after 70 years without a medical examination with a driver's own statement. I therefore believe that if this law has been harmonised, and this provision has not been brought into line with Europe, we must see how it is in the European Member States of the EU. I don't think the pensioners are, I don't think they're the most risky group that shows not your data that's just for a particular group, but a complete view should be the total number of accidents, and that's below 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89687	31st question, colleague Ivan Drmic. ... Come out for a pay phone until we can solve this problem. [[The speaker's off the mic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89688	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask a comment from our prime minister, I don't know if he heard it, but he was released from The Hague prison these days by the Chetnik Duke Vojislav Seselj and that he was listed for health reasons. The fact is that there are a large number of Croatian defenders in Croatian prisons too, and they have been affected by health conditions, the sick, which is understandable to everything that they have been through in the Homeland War and what they passed during the persecution of Croatian institutions of government, means Croatian police. Today in Croatian prisons, they have much, much worse care than Vojislav Seselj had in The Hague prison. The fact is that it is not entirely your fault that the former HDZ governments have also ignored the problem of the health status of Croatian defenders in Croatian prisons. You, unfortunately, have continued this practice in these three years. I want to know how you comment on the fact that the Hague Court can say has other principles of work, a softer soul towards these people while the Croatian homeland of defenders who created it ignores it, simply leaves them to die in prisons. What is the example of Croatian General Đura Brodarac or another example of seriously ill Tomislav Mercep being held for a year and 7 months in prison even though he is in much more difficult health than Vojislav Seselj. There's only two minutes I believe you've heard of them, and I'm not going to pick them up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89689	President Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89690	I'll comment, because you asked me to comment, no matter what you didn't ask the question. And so here, a large part of communication comes down to commenting and making views of itself, and less about answers and rounding up. But I find it difficult to comment on the practice of the UN tribunal. As I find it difficult to comment on what is happening within the justice system and the prison system. I suppose, and I have no evidence that otherwise, that everyone is treated more or less the same. I wish that were the case, and I believe that's the case in Croatia. As for this man you mentioned, I won't tell the gentleman there are those rare cases in which we almost don't have to say that let's wait to see what the court will say because this man's responsibility is so transparent, he receives a face, at first glance, that I can ask the question why this procedure is no longer complete. Just what he said in the '90s, just what he said and what he said, and what's impertinent, so you can't get out of context, which is a message that was sent to the public and people in Serbia and Serbs in Croatia that's a crime and it's a serious crime with which it's rare that at that verbal level we heard in the '90s it can compare. This man called for extermination and murder and would be sentenced and imprisoned in every state. Why isn't this procedure over yet? I don't know. He's been in prison for years. Why did they let him go now, or temporarily, out of prison? I don't know. I'm watching it on TV like you do. And as Prime Minister, they can only conclude that we are doing everything we can to implement the laws in Croatia, that there is no shagging of people on the basis of which they are in prison, and if someone was a Croatian defender, if it is responsible by the decision of the Croatian Court of Justice, the ordinary court for the criminal offence and therefore serves the sentence of imprisonment in one of the Croatian prisons to him if he is a man or her if the woman refers to that minimum of due respect and respect to which you refer to the prisoner. Because let's not forget that the prisoner is a person who, by decision, is deprived of fundamental human rights, which is freedom of movement. Because he broke some important social standards, and that's why he's in jail. It is already a major blow to human freedom that one must pay if he has sinned against the laws of the community. But I, like you, and probably everyone here, express a surprise not so much that this man was temporarily released from custody, there were other examples, but because the procedure is not yet over. And I don't see what's there to prove anymore, and I'm taking the right to say it in public. Someone who called for extermination, not at the borders of Karlobag-Virovica, can say that, but all that's said in addition to that is such a criminal act, it's not a verbal delinquent, it's an invitation to hate and extermination. And that bothers us, it takes too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89691	Commentary, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89692	Mr. Prime Minister, I think that the Croatian Constitution and Croatian laws give you quite broad powers both to you and to this Croatian Parliament, regardless of the trio of power. So I would have a proposal for you as the Croatian prime minister that the same criteria used by the Hague Court, which seemed to be, here I will tell you what the proposal is, in a number of Western developed countries, that is the notion of ablation. Here I suggest you call today or tomorrow what he has seen especially well this 18 November when we mark and sacrifice the victims of Vukovar, the Croatian victims of the Homeland War to call for an emergency session of the Government, to bring, prepare a proposal to the Croatian Parliament on the apportionation of all Croatian defenders in Croatian prisons who are sick and whose health is threatened and to send in emergency procedures to this Croatian Parliament that we vote nicely and that as the Hague court has released Vojislav Seselj to freedom in Serbia, we do the same thing with our defenders who created this country and thanks to which we are sitting here today in the Croatian Assembly, and you gentlemen are sitting in the Government. I think that if you're willing, you can do it, and after that proposal you can go to the tent in front of the Ministry of Defense, I believe that people will welcome you there with the ovations, and then the 18th in Vukovar to the head of the high head column, because after a proposal like this, you have the right to lead that column towards Ovcari. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89693	The 30th issue of counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89694	Thank you very much. I would like to refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister Branko Greek. Mr. Vice President, a lot of people complain that they don't understand your statements because they're most often contradictory. So as the most responsible person for the economic health of the nation, please answer the question is Croatia still in crisis because it has become an EU member or is still in crisis because it has not joined the EU before? And would we already get out of the crisis if we just had a bigger economic downturn? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89695	This is Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89696	Dear Mr. Representative, colleagues and colleagues, I have already answered your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89697	Commentary Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89698	Mr. Vice President, this statement of yours is confusing as usual. But I'll remind you of some, I'll remind you of some of your statements that support and answer this question: "We're sinking less and we'd already be out of the crisis if we hadn't entered the European semester." It just says it's a mistake to join the EU. I quote, "We are getting out of the crisis more slowly because we later joined the EU." This says that we are still in crisis because we should have joined the EU before, a clear obstacle. "The others fell more, so they recovered faster, and we fell less, which is why our recovery is longer." How do we explain this except that we had a 0.2% drop then it would take us 20 years to get out of the crisis, and if we'd fallen 10%, then we'd be out of the crisis in six months. In the first quarter of this year we had a 0.5% growth, this is on the trail of your earlier statement that it's equal to my 0.5 or 0.5 growth, it's no matter the national economy. That's why then I understand that the fall is also growth for you. But your statement that industrial production did not grow because of the influence of air conditioning is the greatest discovery in the history of economic science so far. You've discovered the correlation of the previously undetected macroeconomic variables with industrial production. No aggregate demand, no matter what business cycles and financing costs. Air conditioning, this is the newly discovered and most important variable associated with industrial activity. What a discovery. The Secretary of the Navy does not have any textbook that contains such knowledge. Here's a chance for you uniquely withdraw all the outdated textbooks, and you suggest Mr. Vice President for the Nobel Prize. And by the way, try to sell his inventions in the EU, and surely then Croatia will not be alone in the membership of Europe's worst economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89699	Thank you very much. Time's up. The 30th issue of counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89700	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My question was addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, given that in the past 24 days several times you have "visited" Croatian defenders in Sava Street and who have spontaneously started the protest and welcomed their fellow Croatian military disabled and defenders. Can you briefly answer me how many children and grandchildren have left behind the tragically deceased Nevenka Topolusic? Or what it's called, and what problem was the trigger to the desperate act of self-inflation of the defenders on Sava Street? And what's the name of the defense attorney who started the hunger strike in front of the ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89701	President Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89702	Since I've already spoken exhaustively about this subject today, and in good faith I can only point out once more what I said, look at your provocations and I won't fall for it. I don't think the people who live there are being manipulated, but that people like you tried to manipulate them is clear to all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89703	Commentary Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89704	Your answer is an indication of how familiar you are with the problems that plague Croatian defenders. Your answer is an indication of how much you appreciate, or don't appreciate the health and lives of the people who gave their most valuable to this country. Because if your knowledge were half as great as your vanity, and your ego would be spared, we would walk to Sava, talk to those people who allowed you to sit in the Prime Minister's chair today. They wouldn't let the same defenders in a wheelchair, with braces, with crutches walking from one institution to another and begging for their rights. It is not true, Mr Milanovic, that the rights of the defenders have not been touched. None of you mention or know about reducing the pension of more than 5,000 kunas, which are 10% lower in the beginning of the year, and for the second time since the crisis began. The supplies that have been converted into one-time support and are no longer the right under the Defence Act are already the items of the Ministry of Social Care which, according to current criteria, 70% of the current users can no longer achieve. As well as the legal rights of the most difficult, 100% disabled who cannot be obtained from health insurance. The defenders have voluntarily created and defended this country, and now these same defenders are forced to bear the greatest burden of your incompetence. The country of Croatia is the only country in the world that pays off pensions to the aggressor army. There is never a single request for pension insurance rights from Serbia as well as from BiH that a confirmation of the country's competent institutions is not attached to... the regulations of our country, i.e. that they did not participate in aggression against our country. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89705	Thank you. 34th question, Ante Babic. You're out of time. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89706	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I refer my question to Minister Ranko Ostojić. In these 3 years, the Kukuriku coalition without thorough analyses and checks has passed many laws on the damage of society as a whole whose consequences we all feel. One such law passed without a thorough analysis is also the Law on residence. The adoption of the residence law itself created the obligation to report early departures outside the Republic of Croatia to all Croatian citizens. You know that they can do it in police stations, or diplomatic... representations in the world. However, according to knowledge at this point, only in the Federal Republic of Germany do you have more than 50,000 requirements for resolving residence status. As far as we know in the Republic of Croatia there are about 300 thousand citizens who have not resolved this status, which means they could be left without voting rights, driver's licenses, passports, payments through current accounts, municipal obligations,... subscriptions and the like. In view of all of the above, do you intend to amend the Housing Act in a way that abolishs this legislation prescribed obligation to apply for early departure outside Croatia, or at least does the Government intend to adopt a new regulation that will extend the time limit for the application of early departure outside Croatia so that all requests can be processed and that there should be no actual initiation of the check-out procedure under official duty which will certainly produce additional complications for Croatian citizens outside Croatia and make them even more bitter, i.e. to get away from the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89707	This is Vice President Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89708	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Representative, first of all, the intention of passing the Law on residence was precisely not to have a situation like this happening to us, which is that a certain number of our citizens actually do not have a place of residence. I must first of all point out that the Croatian Parliament certainly does not pass the laws that go to the harm of society, it would not be good because exactly the law enforcement is in our obligation, that is, what you as legislators adopt. What are the exact figures and reasons, which is that over 130 thousand of our fellow citizens have never had an ID. The exact figure is also that 44,000 people live at addresses 0 or bb. It was precisely this arrangement that was intended to resolve the issue and at this point the adoption of the Law on residence on the basis of Article 12, somewhere around 18,000 procedures and led to a check-out of the residence of a particular person. All those who, during this period, mean 2 years and who have no intention of permanently evicting from the Republic of Croatia, I mention permanently evicting from the Republic of Croatia, and those who have submitted 72,000 applications to the competent institutions will not be left without opportunity or be deprived of such a thing, whether or not the deadline is extended. Even in a situation where there has been a residence checkout for the lack of information that I believe we can't talk about uninformedness because for two years we have been persistently repeating, which is that every citizen is obliged to regulate his address, that he can do so at every police station, consulate, etc. This does not deny him the right even to do so, not to do so with the end of 29.12., of course he can always apply again for residence. This is about having to have orderly documents like you have to have in Germany, so you have to have them in Croatia, and I don't think it's to the detriment of the citizens, and at this point I can say that, so this data collection is made, we know exactly how long it is, the deadlines are still going on, so people can do it without any problem. I note, unless they want to permanently evict from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89709	Commentary, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89710	Dear Minister, of course I'm not happy with your answer, and I don't know if the Croats who live outside the Republic of Croatia understood you. What you just said is actually saying that nothing's gonna happen to them. So, as far as the Housing Act is concerned, it's clear if it doesn't happen that a stay checkout procedure will be initiated. I expected you to end it today. You know such administrative harassment of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia I told you, they're moving them away from their homeland. And you are well aware of the fact that Croatia as an evictive country has certainly the largest diaspora in all European countries, we do not know the exact data until the end because no one has even led to it for various reasons that have occurred since the past. The government's policy from the very beginning has not only been related to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, related only to the Law on residence, there is also the Law on voters, an active registration which is a discriminatory form towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, we do not do so according to Croatians who are in Croatia. Then the constitutional provision under Article 45 that all Croatian citizens over the age of 18 have equal and general voting rights and we do not respect that and yet these same citizens have to do so in diplomatic and consular representations. On the other hand, the ministry did not pay attention to the technical opportunities that happen to these people who have to go 100 kilometers to our diplomatic and consular offices, and somewhere thousands of people, taking their days off, or that costs them more financially. And we know, in fact, it was a desire to help them and make life easier outside the Republic of Croatia that they so long for, and turn them into second-class citizens. A serious state aware of these facts would think twice about it because when it defended the Republic of Serbia, we did not ban Croatians from various administrative abuses, but we begged them to come and defend this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89711	Thank you, dear colleague. Your time is up. 35th question from a colleague named Đuro Popiè. ... You have on screen time in 2 minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89712	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's a question I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister, Mr. Branko Greek. Last week, the European Commission announced, on two occasions, that we are the worst economy of all EU member states, and I hope you will not deny that without any indication that anything will change in the time ahead, and this thanks primarily to the inability of this government to make any shifts in the area of the economy. The result of this is, of course, an unrecorded constant decline in GDP 11 quarters in a row, a constant drop in employment and a threatening increase in the number of unemployed here in the last month, almost 45 thousand newly registered unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service, all due to the dramatic collapse of the Croatian economy. This situation can be improved partly by attracting and withdrawing funds from EU structural funds, so we have heard more than 10 billion kuna in the next few years today. but given the catastrophic experience of the year and a half of membership with regard to the withdrawal of these funds from the fact that you yourself have said that from three key documents to date only one, I am specifically asking you, when will the operational programmes be adopted as a prerequisite for tendering, when will the rural development programme be final, when will the rules of measures 4.1 and 4.2 of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development Programme be published and concerning support for agricultural economies and when will the tender be opened for these measures be opened and for what amounts?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89713	This is Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89714	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. As for that first part of the question, it says to you in a fus note never published by a colleague, Marić, it seems to me 100 and one page, to listen to a question 7 that I already said there, and for this second one I can only tell you, again, that we have confirmed in the last week of this commission's mandate with nine old member states which have been members of the EU for decades, so we are not late in anything. Of the 170 operational programmes that all EU countries are reporting 6 have adopted at this time, and among those to be adopted in the coming weeks are 2 Croatian operational programmes and of course there are rural development programmes. What is certain is that we stick to deadlines, we are together with other members, and that is how it will be. And what's very important is not a condition for beginning to realize projects. We have already launched public procurement projects for what will be financed from the new financial perspective because we can because we know because we have written and confirmed by the European Commission in a partnership agreement that this will be financed. So there is no delay here, the process goes on, people work day and night on it, and I thank them once again because these are people really in a system that deserves every commendation, we arrive on deadlines, we have excellent communication with the commission, and that will continue. What is a big difference from a year ago, people today respect us as a full member of the EU and treat us that way. Croatian people are participating in this administration today, and this is very important. So we are part of the EU and let's stop acting like we're some kind of periphery of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89715	Commentary Đuro The Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89716	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I didn't mean to provoke you, I asked you very specific questions because these are questions that interest most of those who are eager to make these funds available and start achieving their entrepreneurial ventures, but you haven't answered any of my questions, when will the contest be called? I didn't say we were late, I asked you when the contest would start, and you didn't answer that in a single sentence. In addition, you have not responded when the 377 remarks that the European Commission sent back to the Ministry of Agriculture for the rural development programme will be corrected. There is no Minister here now, but I am asking you as the most responsible person besides the Prime Minister, because you are also Minister for Regional Development and for membership, or for the European Union funds. So either you or you don't know, and obviously you don't know when the competition will be held, you don't know when other documents, operational programs, and when rural development will be accepted. And of course you don't even know the dynamics of these competitions. So either you don't manage processes or you don't have coordination or you don't have an answer because this whole preparation isn't unfortunately completed yet. It's sad and it's sad and it will further make it difficult and challenging and so invisible economic growth, of course, everything you've already commented today that it's actually a decline in growth which is difficult and understandable. So the only funds were and are a chance for the recovery of the Croatian economy but you had no concrete question when something would happen you didn't have a concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89717	36 question from counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89718	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The question therefore to the prime minister, even though there is no real question, because everything is clear. In our country, we are witnessing, so all of us as well as the Croatian people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia destroyed agriculture, the decline in industrial production, the decline in gross social product, the increase in external debt, the continued deficit of the state budget, ranging from 4.5-6%, demographic collapse and emigration of young people from Croatia, and whatnot. I didn't particularly want to, so on each of these items because there isn't enough time, but I have to say, despite all this, we have a real marginalization of the Homeland War. The prime minister said he didn't show up and he himself admitted that he didn't show up and we know among the defenders even though their demands aren't just the ones being made public. In fact, we know well that defenders also have been deceived for shares that have nominal value, for example. For the RIZ transmitter, 50 euros per share and the actual value of these shares is 35 kuna. So more than 10 times less. Whether they've been cheated or not, you can judge for yourself. Such defenders only have 630 for RIZ transmitters. Furthermore, when you speak, there are contradictions in the statements, here is the lady, your Deputy Prime Minister said that European measures mean firing public service employees or reducing salaries. Mr. Grcic says these measures mean strengthening administrative capacity. Mr. Vrdoljak would buy shares I have no questions, no questions for the prime minister because all the questions we've asked are actually answered and the answer is state of play. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Ask a question you will run out of time.]] That's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89719	Thank you very much. You have announced that you will ask the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89720	There's nothing to ask him because he can't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89721	Then he'll comment on your comment. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89722	Can I ask you a question? Let's just say what you were thinking, what were you thinking when you grabbed your parliamentary pension the day before we lifted it? That's what I have to ask you, that's what I have to ask, so since you're a surgeon for 30 years and a doctor, I guess you've earned an honest pension there, what do you need this pension for? We can always be philosophers, we can be village wise men. Exports are growing, industrial production is growing for a while and you're terribly wrong about it probably, I'm glad. And I am glad not to boast of it, but it is important that it is growing because these are areas where Croatia has stagnated and fallen all the time because we have put too much trust in the service sector and consumption. Our services are strong, tourism is a strong branch of the economy and we will return this now, we will return this in the next 5 to 10 years Croatia will be more industrially competitive than it was 5 years ago, it will happen I guarantee you whoever is in power. This is a natural road to Croatia. Thus, two items of those that you paushaed at the beginning as over the board are incorrect and tear down the entire structure. It's a great house you've got here. It's just that you're not good at the foundation and the first floor. Everything else is great. You didn't have a question for me. I asked you a question. Don't be offended. It's not a personal question, it's a principled political issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89723	The current morning is to ask questions, counterpart Grubisic announced he would ask the prime minister. He asked how he asked, and he got that answer. Here, you will now comment on the answer to the question you did not ask. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89724	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, you said you respected court cases and court decisions. You obviously don't know that the Constitutional Court has made a decision and the media doesn't say that the matter has been resolved long ago. But you're a bad man as you are, and you always pull the same thing. You've got Antesic, you've got a series of your SDP gentlemen, so give them a little incentive. God forbid you, as prime minister, will ever happen to Croatia again. Never again. And believe that the entire people think the same thing about you, the entire Croatian people, and that will show you the elections soon. As for me and the comment that you have cast, you and your members of the government have all earned together, given that the game of Croatia-Argentina is playing tonight and that we never see you at the head of the Croatian Government again. Find a place in school, a library, museums, there your education and answers, no offense to those people who work in those institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89725	I don't think you can speak on behalf of the Croatian people, just maybe part of it. 37th question, colleague Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89726	I thank the esteemed vice president. I refer my question to Vedrana Sailor, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. In fact, after the ministry provided financial resources at the beginning of the school year for assistants in follow-up for children with developmental difficulties, we witnessed last week that the public was very upset about the problem and the issue. If we take into account the fact that last year's school year has provided funding for 900 continuing assistants, and this year for 1400 continuing assistants, which means an increase of almost 50% and is not negligible, please explain to me where the difficulties have arisen and whether the financing of assistants will continue to be resolved and not only this year but also systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89727	Minister Vedran Navarre responds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89728	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs. It should be known that it is in the school year 2012/2013. a total of 455 students who have difficulty, i.e. assistants for these students. That's when my ministry took over, so 906 assistants were funded in the next school year. This year we found some funds from the Structural Funds, we added something from the ministry's funds, lottery funds, and as the esteemed representative said we funded 1420 assistants in teaching, i.e. for the corresponding number of students, which is a three-fold increase compared to last year, i.e. by even 512 compared to last year. I don't remember that there were so many public calls in 2012 to 2013 when three times fewer children were funded. But it seems that it wasn't enough because now there are 43 children who don't have an assistant in class and now we're all wondering how, and the answer is simple: they're not in the records. Although the positive regulations state that every child in need of a teaching assistant must be granted my ministry's approval, some of these children have never been seduced, and the assistants had which was financed by local self-government. Some of them, whether deliberately or intentionally in this first competition, are simply left out of the list, so the computers will be financed from this second tranche, when we have provided additional funds for associations. In any case, we have already solved 26 such cases, we solve the remaining 17, eventually they will all get, and the ministry will, of course, take measures to solve the problem systematically, to adopt a regulation on raising and educating children with developmental difficulties, and then the competitions will be integrated in the next year on the basis of one database that we will build this year in which we will then have data for each child. I repeat, the children had teaching assistants without the ministry knowing because they were financed by local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89729	38th question, colleague Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89730	Thank you, Vice President. I ask my question to Mr. Maras, Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts. At a session held on 30 October this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted amendments and additions to the VAT Act which, from 1 January of the following year, allow all small-scale operators with total annual income up to 3 million kuna to pay VAT on the bill charged, instead of how it is today at the expense of the account. Dear Ministers, which all the positive effects you expect will bring to small economy entities this commendable and long-awaited amendment and addition of the VAT Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89731	Minister Gordan Maras responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89732	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Babic, I'm glad you asked that, only I'm not glad that the economic experts from HDZ Boris, Maric and Popijac went away to hear what they missed in two terms of HDZ before this government. Probably this call, which Mr. Tušak was talking about at the beginning, was stronger with an empty stomach but would probably be passed on to them by his colleagues from HDZ. So what this government has managed to do, and said something about it by the prime minister and minister of Greece, finally after a long time, industrial production in Croatia began to grow, that exports began to grow, especially among small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The interesting information is that exports of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are higher than in 2008 before the recession began. So there are big shifts, and it will be even bigger after this measure has been introduced that people have rightly sought for more than 10 years, not to pay VAT before they charge invoices and this will directly reflect over 130 thousand small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will thus be able to non-finance from their VAT budgets and be able to survive more easily on the market. In particular, it will help people who founded the company this year, they almost 10,000 are in Croatia this year I would say boldly start a company because times are not simple and they also in their first invoices will not have to pay VAT until they collect the invoice. On the other hand, the VAT Act defines another very important measure that will go counter to those big ones who sometimes do not pay for invoices and finance their business out of it. So it will be possible to break certain other obligations of small entrepreneurs towards the Tax Administration with a performance directly at the expense of large companies in the Republic of Croatia so that it will no longer be possible for people not to pay and finance their business. And it is a shame what the HDZ Government did not dare to do because tens of thousands of small companies at the moment that may have disappeared in recent years would be doing business in the Republic of Croatia. Let me tell you about how much this will affect liquidity. It is estimated that up to a billion kuna per year will be expected to delay the revenues of the state budget and this is direct assistance to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. So we expect number one to be easier to do business of course, because people won't have to borrow money in banks to finance tax obligations. And number two that very much of these tens of thousands of companies on the continent will survive and will not be completed and blocked and deleted from the court register tomorrow. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89733	And last question, colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89734	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm asking you a question. Here's who's waiting and waiting. So, you haven't commented so far, at least I haven't seen in public the new views of the European Commission, or Brussels on all those measures that we have to implement, so the reforms for 2014 but also for the next year, so this is now an opportunity. In this report, namely, pension and health systems are identified as the most important areas in which certain very strong and decisive steps are to be taken in order to achieve budgetary consolidation. Because only these two systems weigh about 60 billion kunas a year, so half of them get together. What's the fact that over the years we've been in debt to serve these two systems is a fact, interest is about $11 billion. And here's Minister Lalovac himself said that next year it's going to be harder and harder and harder, and that's the election year where radical decisions will be very difficult to make. On 5 June, with my colleagues from the HDZB, I sent a proposal to the President of the Parliament that we should put these recommendations on the national reform programme, recommendations from the European Council or the Commission on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament's session to discuss this and that we might be able to reach a minimum of agreement on what should be done. So, going to retirement at 67 years, bonuses for those who go on a regular pension, penals for those who leave early. Are you ready, Mr. Prime Minister, to support this proposal to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, means these recommendations and to draw some conclusions that would be the wind in the back of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in making decisions that will be difficult and that will certainly welcome both the next and the next Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89735	Thank you very much. President Zoran Milanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89736	Dear MPs, I suggest we finally graduate and grow up and stop acting like we're before the screening process begins, let alone the negotiations. The European Commission, which I respect, will give a number of recommendations to everyone on all topics, lead, i.e. to hymn to lead the economic and fiscal policies of all countries, to give advice both to Denmark and Germany and to Croatia within the European Semester. Right, there will be hundreds of top bureaucrats working on it, and it's good to hear it. But I will never let myself be the Croatian prime minister first to impress me with someone's prognosis. So, first of all, we have to trust our own prognosis and projections. Everyone forecasts, including the European Commission, and we take that into account, especially that we are, but I think that this is how every sovereign country thinks, without any big, proud turns out, that we are discussing our strategic changes on the basis of someone's recommendations. This is not the level of one serious state as much as anyone who makes recommendations is respectable and ok. We need neither the European Commission nor the World Bank, nor the IMF, but ourselves or other countries with similar experiences because there are no linear models for everything to decide what to do. Well, we don't need the European Commission to remind us that as a society we age, there are more and more older people, that today, out of every four kunas that those who work stand out for the pension system, three kunas are directly spent on paying salaries to those who are retired, and only one kuna goes into capitalised savings with which one day something will be. So then we try to engage that capital that is allocated to our pension funds under the law into four pension funds necessarily every month, all of us who are younger than 52 years old, that our funds enter and monetize the highways, to try. And we're trying to narrow it down. Is this the reform advised by the European Commission? That was our proposal. If the people decide otherwise, we will pay interest for the next 25 years in this same Brussels to some bankers we know neither name nor face. But these are topics for us, we ourselves. There's an Irish phrase for it. I'm not going to quote it here right now. We ourselves, these are decisions that we must make alone, so I urge you to have motivation for such discussions not to be anyone's recommendation but our views. Well, we have a state for 24 years, and that country isn't bad at all. And I'm convinced, I'm almost ready and guaranteed that after a short time, we have a relatively long, steady moderate growth that no government will be able to prevent me from expressing myself like that. Because Croatia is basically healthy with certain problems it has, with a certain scleroticity of the system but not with worse bureaucracy. We have some big corporations that currently dominate the entire region, which have traffic that doesn't have any such corporations in Poland. That's not the result of my work or your work. It's the result of a total ambience in which something like this was possible. So I'm not calling for any self-deception or illusion that we're not who we are. But not on the basis of recommendations or someone's forecasts, because I'm waiting for the day when in Croatia we'll never shake hands, but take them, to conclude something from them we'll go our separate ways. And it's not an autorchy or isolation. It's just a mature constructive approach, we make decisions. That's it. And a decision to interest us for 25 years for highways, our cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89737	Commentary, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89738	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you're telling me that we're doing something ourselves, and I've asked you to do something now. I graduated a long time ago, and I graduated from it a long time ago, and that's not what I should be invited to do. I am not impressed by the recommendations or the opinion of anyone, however, their finding that the situation in Croatia is a bad finding for ourselves or at least it should be. Because we haven't moved, look at the results of the budget for next year's rebalance, we're going to go to 20 billion deficits. The situation is bad and your finance minister said the other day in the Croatian Parliament that it will be worse and worse next year. And I suggest you try to do this on your own and try to get government support in those reforms and measures and steps that you need to take. When we, which was in 2010, or 2011, passed the Pension Insurance Act, speak to me, and I mean the last government, with the retirement of 65 years, means the extension of the deadline, then you said when we came to power, we'll get it back to the way it was. And by all accounts, we'll have to work until 67, yes. So I call on you to try around these two large systems as a government in the year ahead of you to reach a consensus. Not because of politics, not because of the government, but because of the state that is now floating Mr. Prime Minister into the unknown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89739	This is what's currently done in the morning. We'll continue at 15.00 hours, and for your information today we'll discuss three first points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89740	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We'll discuss one. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber, first reading, P.Z. No. 720 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tihomir Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89741	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs. By provision of Article 18(5), the current Agricultural Act, the legislator specified that the tasks of authorising the agronomics to carry out private advisory services, conduct expert examinations for authorised agronomies and conduct a list of authorised agronomists by the Croatian agronomic chamber. According to Article 22. The Law on Agriculture, the Croatian Agronomic Chamber... is a special law as an independent and independent professional organisation that preserves the reputation, honor and rights of authorised agronomists, its members, to ensure that authorised agronomists carry out their tasks knowingly and in accordance with the law and promotes, represents and coordinate their interests with state and other bodies in the country and abroad. The Croatian agronomic chamber in a special agronomic authorisation procedure confirms that the agronomics meets the prescribed professional criteria that make it highly qualified and particularly capable of performing professional advisory tasks, which is subject to professional authorisation. The Agriculture Act provides for the authorisation of agronomies for the following tasks: designing, designing and monitoring of agricultural production, consulting in farming, editing, use of agricultural resources, construction of facilities, selection of equipment, devices, processes and systems, professional training for agricultural works, product quality testing, participation in judicial skills, production and audit of professional studies and plans, design and control of projects and professional documentation. Agronom is a person with acquired qualifications according to the Law on the Croatian Qualification Framework. The unique name within the definition of agronom is chosen for the reason that, according to the list of academic and professional names and academic degrees at the universities in Croatia, agricultural profession experts are educated through a number of directions. Therefore, the choice of a unique name containing the characteristics of a traditional name... is chosen as an agronomist in these areas for qualified agricultural professions. The draft law included representatives of the Faculty of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Croatian Agronomic Society, Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, Croatian Chambers of Forestry and Wood Technology, Croatian Chambers of Construction Engineers, Croatian Agricultural Agency, Institute of... Culture and..., Institute of Agriculture and Tourism, Faculty of Agriculture, Osijek, Agricultural Institute of Osijek, Advisory and Ministry of Agriculture. The aim of the construction and adoption of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is to enable and encourage the association of agronomics in order to coordinate the work and to protect the public interest of third parties in carrying out professional advisory activities of private professional assistance to agricultural economies in the development of projects related to the investment and use of EU funds. The Ministry of Agriculture held a public debate on the draft law on 22 April to 06 May 2014 inviting all individuals, agronomists, scientific professional institutions, associations, stakeholders and the public concerned to engage with their comments, proposals and opinions in the drafting of this law, which governs the fundamental structure, part-round public authority, membership and financing of the Croatian Agronomic Chamber. The law on Croatia's agronomic chamber will institutionally regulate the framework for the evaluation of the expertise of agronomics, continuity of monitoring of current trends, technological changes and professional progress and monitoring of the expertise and responsibilities of authorised agronomists at expert level through the work of the chamber. The public authority would regulate the rights and obligations, the granting and confiscation of powers, the code of honor and the insurance of liability for damages which could be done to third parties. After the entry into force of the law within 30 days, the Commission will be appointed to hold first elections for members of the assembly, members of the council and representatives of the chamber and to prescribe, and the President of the Chamber, pardon, and to lay down the conditions for participation in the founding assembly, and no later than 6 months, the first elections for members of the Assembly, members of the Council and the President of the Chamber will be discussed. Financial means for the operation of the chamber shall be provided from registration, membership fee, payment of services, donations and other sources in accordance with the law, and funds in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 amounting to EUR 100 000 shall be provided for the costs of establishment of the chamber. Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, a Regulation on the issue, renewal, confiscation of agronomial powers, the conduct of private... agronomic services and in the conditions, content and manner of passing expert examinations will be adopted. I'd like to thank you in advance. We're at your disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89742	I thank the minister. We have a single replica reported, the esteemed Branko Hrg, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, when you speak of public authority and what the chamber will be able to do, then it is clear and clear that someone will be able to do all the things that the chamber members will do and pay for. Of course, farmers will pay, peasants. They now use jobs and services of counseled service, free of charge. In view of the fact that at the beginning of your term, you broke up the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, singled out the advisory service, abolished its public powers, abolished mandatory membership, and now the question is whether the establishment of an agronomic chamber in this way is not one parallel system that someone will have to pay again. Isn't that the creation of a private advisory service paid by Croatian peasants? And I really don't understand why we have mandatory membership here, and in Croatia we abolished it, the Croatian agricultural chamber is composed not only of the official professional profession but also of clean producers. So such a single mixed system and practices and educational professions are not good, it's supposed to be destroyed, and now we're going to go to this kind of chamber. So I have nothing against the chamber, it is good that professional chambers are established, but I think that giving public authority in this way will be at the expense of Croatian peasants who we already know can't survive and can't pay anything more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89744	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89745	Dear Representative Hrg, so you mentioned the advisory service of the public institution continue to do their job according to the description of the jobs they do. I know it is difficult for you to understand the interest and intensity of the agronomists, and this is an initiative that is well thought out and which, along with the ministry and my team, came from colleagues and deans of the Zagreb and Osijek agricultural colleges because they have tried to make a professional profession for years, we speak professional chamber because as agronomists we didn't have it since you're not an agromist and you're not from our profession, so it's very difficult for you to understand. I see no reason and argument why fellow veterinarians, foresters, architects, builders or other branch medics might have professional chambers, and you believe that agronomists did not deserve to protect the profession and interest of promotion, and the professions of agronomics have their own chamber. When talking about mandatory membership, you need to do it again between membership and the funds collected by the chamber, if you are talking about the Agricultural Chamber, which is not a professional chamber that has been collected in the amount of 10 to 12 million kuna from the support of agricultural producers necessarily. This is a membership of the agronomist who will be willing to be and join the professional chamber of agronomists and therefore pay membership fees. On this basis, they will also have certain rights and obligations, which are professional chambers. I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt. Let my answer run in progress. This is a professional chamber made in a very wide professional circle and expert commission and public debate and the rest and I think it is well complex that it will have its function, its jobs, its tasks. Part of the powers that will be passed on and that will be able to do what all the laws, right now and ours, as well as the EU laws that apply to us, enable agronomists across Europe to do. This way it'll just be arranged to have our own professional chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89746	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First Croatian Labourist-Party of Work and Honorable Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief. First and foremost, does the agronomial chamber need it or not? I believe that the profession has said its own, we support in this part of the professional and professional profession that it has its own chamber with certain rules of conduct, powers and duties. The main objective of this bill is that the Croatian agronomic chamber will have public authority, which means we privatise the Agricultural Advisory Service. At a time when directives, EU resolutions and Commission resolutions are adopted daily in this Croatian Parliament when we additionally burden entrepreneurs and thus farmers with new obligations that they have to carry out, it is certainly a difficult fact that everything costs, so that at this point the farmer will come into the situation that certain services that need to be used will have to be defined between whether these services will be provided by the advisory service which is with the Ministry of Agriculture or will decide on someone who is authorised by agronomics and who is registered in the chamber of agronomists and who, on the basis of his membership in the chamber, can perform all those duties and obligations that are set out here in this bill. If it's private, it means it's worth something. This something costs additional Croatian product, and we all try to be on the agricultural market especially as competitive as possible and that our agricultural producers, and thus our agricultural producers make as much income as possible to justify everything that the farmer does. I am afraid that this is not the way we contribute, but that Croatian peasants are burdened further. I will therefore give you an example in the projects that are applied to the EU-sponsored co-financing programmes. We have developmental, county development agencies, in time we said that people working in these county development agencies will help and be at the service of entrepreneurs and economics in the design and preparation of certain documentation necessary for applications. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved, people working for EU funds in most cases, and projects work for local self-government units and local administrations, but not for private entrepreneurs and craftsmen. These entrepreneurs and craftsmen remain on the condition that they have to allocate large amounts of money in order to apply to certain projects. We have an advisory service at the Ministry of Agriculture, which should be at the service of all farmers as such, to provide specific suggestions, suggestions, and education at the end of the day because we all know that farmers have to be educated from day to day to day to day to know what herbicides, pesticides, and how to use them in the same way at all. And now I'm afraid that in this way we're going to bring the same farmers into a situation that, over time, we're going to reduce the services provided by the advisory service and we're going to increase our obligations to farmers in such a way that these services will have to pay dearly to private or authorised agronoms. Because I assume that anyone who enters and is in the register of the agronomic chamber will be in that register solely because he wants to have a conviction or a license to do these jobs that are listed here in this bill. The next thing I'd like to know is that, by enrolling in the agronomic chamber, employees can perform the same activity or provide services and do what they do somewhere in the morning as employees of the Ministry of Agriculture or advisory staff, and then as authorised and licensed agronomies, the same thing can be charged by that same peasant. And not to get into a situation where employees of advisory services have less and less and less time for farmers in the mornings or at those hours when they are at their workplace and then we write instructions, advices and projects as licensed agronomies. That's two things that concern me personally and my club. I hope that we are thinking in the long term and we are standing by the fact that we want Croatia's agriculture to finally get a little better and a little more competitive on our common European market. And that we will take care of it, but here, unfortunately, knowing us and our practice of thinking about entrepreneurs, about the economy, about entrepreneurship, and in this case, and about the farmers alone, I'm afraid we're opening another unplanned cost for all of our farmers who, if they want to meet all the legal norms and regulations that we put before them, have to redistribute the additional funds unplannedly to satisfy all that is ahead of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89748	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89749	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Tyrelli, in your debate you pointed out the concern that this law actually leads to the privatisation of the advisory service. The intensity of this law is by no means, if we observe the agronomic profession, then it is far beyond the advisory service. True, there is, and you said that later in the debate, and I'm going to say something in the debate, and there's even on that trail, maybe it's a good idea to ban actually the employees of the advisory service from being members of the agronomic chamber, so that what you're talking about isn't happening as well as, but let's just say in other professions, doctors are doing it neatly after working hours of a certain search. So the question now is the constitutionality of such a provision. But in any case, the intensity of this law is protecting the agronomic profession. So that the agronoms, by their association, and by volunteering to point out by the minister, protect the dignity actually and ultimately work towards what is crucial in your debate, by raising the competitiveness of the Croatian farmer. It's actually the key to the whole story. And we can look at this law from that aspect means raising the agronomic profession and regulating the relations between the agronomists. If someone sets up tomorrow's office of authorized agronomics to pay for the government's obligations and helps, that way helps, I think of course he'll collect his services that... Then they're making better progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, it doesn't make sense that someone else is doing this job under the law or should I say it in black. And the advisory service has the law defined its powers and they will remain so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89750	The answer to the replica of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89751	Thank you, Vice President. So there's a colleague and you've mentioned doctors yourself, so there's a possible connection of suspicions and fears that arise, and I don't think we should call on doctors except in the part where we want to prevent bad practice in one way. So what I'd like to do is not repeat and repeat in the continuity of the same mistake but that the agronomic chamber is really something that will introduce order, discipline and rules in the very agronomic profession in favour of agronomists but certainly not to the harm of farmers and that's what I'm saying. I agree with you that if the licensed agronomist wants to open his private practice that in this case he becomes an entrepreneur on our Croatian market, that the obligation to pay all those taxes, the fees that the laws require him, is in that way one part to say the grey economy. But even so far, the agronomists have not been able to give specific advice and suggestions to farmers, and that, thanks to such suggestions on gray or black, as we will call them, farmers could have received a certain solution from the competent ministry to comply with certain rules and laws that the law and rules put before them. So if someone was also working and giving advice without being authorized to do so, on the basis of these days of advice, no farmer profited, except in that part that I could learn something from the agronomist and enlarge my knowledge as a farmer so that I knew something more. But anyway, that kind of information didn't get me right in that part of it that I shouldn't have paid something as a farmer to have confirmation that I had learned something because I was told something by a licensed counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89752	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89753	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've actually put this thing very well between the Advisory Service and the Chamber, although our distinguished minister will say that I don't get it very well, that I don't understand. I get who's supposed to pay for it. Those who finally have to pay me a few pages of objections to this law, not in a way that someone would be against the chamber but in a way that didn't fall all that you yourself told the farmer on the back, and he would. You said yourself, as soon as it was private, it would cost and then you put it in comparison with the Advisory Service. Let's go back a little bit, remind ourselves a little 2.5 years back, 3 years ago, when the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture was broken, when the Advisory Service was extracted from it, when it was said that it would cost less the advisory service. Then it turned out that in fact one 2 million kunas seemed to me to have the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture singled out for the Advisory Service so that people and advisers could even go to the field. Now we're in a situation that the Advisory Service can't function because it's dead, it's simply reduced to people sitting in offices, that malts don't have a license to go to the field, to go to the farmer. And after that, we come to the establishment of a chamber that will have public authority, the same ones that the Advisory Service has. Instead of finally starting preparations for the use of funds from the agriculture sector, rural development, from European funds, to strengthen an institution that will help farmers draw money for free, we are now creating, of course, one financial competition that will be able to do the job, but the peasants will, of course, eventually pay for it. That's right, he'll pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89754	The replica matches the respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89755	Here is colleague Hrg, we agree and we are afraid of the same thing, which is an additional burden for Croatian peasants. What scares me the most is the following. We have an advisory service that advises farmers and should do so in one part for free. If the farmer listened to a specific workshop or seminar by an authorised or employee of the Advisory Service, he could eventually obtain a certificate on the basis of these few hearing hours that he was qualified for something the law requires of him. We are now in a situation and I am afraid that this does not happen to us, that the Advisory Service at the Ministry of Agriculture does not work within the time limit within which the farmer must listen and respect them. At that point, the farmer remains two things: or not to receive a certain certificate, which means that he will ultimately not get a certain permit to carry out that activity or be left with another solution, which is to allocate his money to go to a private advisor, i.e. in this case a licensed or authorised agronomist, who will provide him with the same service but for a certain cash compensation. Unfortunately, we are all here witnessing that this happened to us not once, that there is a silence as the state administration says in the part where the administration should and the advisory services of the state follow the application of certain laws and that ultimately it remains only for the individual to pay what it should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89756	The word has now appeared on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't usually go out and defend my laws after every club, but I felt the need not to accidentally, given the large number of reported, go wrong in the rhetoric of new parafiscal duties for agricultural producers. It doesn't stand, it's not true. First thing I want to make clear, this is a first reading proposal. I would be pleased, sir, that this large number of remarks or proposals that come and which you mention came from a public debate that was very long, which was widely addressed to all the public, including in any case end-users, agricultural producers, and that in this public debate we received, whether from them, whether from your peasant style or from yourself any proposals or objections to this law, and not now in this debate, we use the argument of untrueness and non-functioning of the Advisory Service on how the Croatian Agricultural Chamber saved and well directed the work of the Advisory Service with which you said 2 million. You kept quiet that at least 5 to 6 million were not aware of how they were spent, or were accidentally spent. I didn't mean to, in any way, disabling the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, mention at all the educational and age structure of the people who ran that chamber, primarily educationally compared to the professional chamber that we now propose with this law. Once again, I'm going to say that the initiative was from the top agricultural experts of the dean, our two biggest and most important faculty of Professor Romco's former dean at the Faculty of Agriculture and Professor Guberco, my team, me, but all the professions supported that proposal and we gave a good balanced bill. Once again I mention this is the first reading. There is no reason not to receive a proposal from you for an amendment to amend Articles 22 or 23 of the conditions for enrollment in the list of authorised agronomists so that we can correct those who work for public institutions so that they cannot be members of the Chamber. But that's what we need to know and justify in an argument. When we talk about what I'm going to say one more time, it's not and it won't be a new parafiscal imposition for agricultural producers, I say responsibly. And now these same agricultural producers, if they prepare any project for pre-accession funds or for something where they apply to pay for private ones, pay for the construction of elaborates for private consulting houses that are mostly not in their own right and are not driven by agronomies with due respect to all other professions and economists and lawyers and builders and others, it makes more sense for me to have colleagues, my fellow agronomists sign such projects, stand behind such projects unlike now being signed by builders or economists. This way we'll sort it out. And when we talk about financing some of the commitments that we have made and which we are obliged to respect as all other farmers in the EU are paid and will be paid in the future and we cannot escape from it, we have done this advisory service by our national service, which Mr. Hrg says does not do what a notorious lie and untruth or work with a private agro-authorised. It's a matter of funding. In the rural development programme, we came up with measure 1 and measure 2. Measure 1 total value 10 million euros transferred knowledge, information activities. Measure 2 of the advisory service, of the agricultural economy management services and of the aid to agricultural economies. One hundred percent of eligible costs will be able to be financed by farmers from these measures to raise knowledge and skills, transfer of knowledge and technology. It's not a new parafiscal load, I'm talking about a professional chamber, I'm talking about a chamber that's going to protect the agronomic elevator on one side. On the other hand, edit through the chamber the way, rights and obligations of the agronomists and model work. If there are any abuses that you are already alluding to be, then it should be done by inspection services, then there is again in accordance with the law and the possibility of disfellowshipping from the chamber if someone is doing the opposite of the law and the opposite of the reputation of the profession itself. I'm sure my fellow agronomists will never do it consciously. There's always a weed in the grain. It's probably possible that it happens, too. Make suggestions and we'll advance to the second reading in law, but don't judge your colleagues in advance because we didn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89758	Thank you. Two replicas. Dear Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89759	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, don't twist things. I didn't say at any point that I was against the establishment of an agronomic chamber and don't twist things like that, you're inclined to do it. We haven't written any comments because we think you have too much work to do with those 377 comments on rural development measures, so we're not going to create any further problems for you. You might be able to fix it, so that the agronomists have something to do when they need to write projects and help the villagers. As far as the advisory service is concerned, I didn't say she was working, but I said she was dead, and she was dead at the time of your ministry and it's a fact. That's true. And let's not say it isn't. They don't work enough because they can't work enough, because you don't let them. And what's important and important. At this point, I'm really more interested in someone who will ultimately pay to call it parafiscal or whatever other inducement, the fact is one will pay the peasants. So, I'm interested in them. And as Minister, they should be interested in you first, not in the agronomic profession that you represent here. Do you represent peasants or represent agronomies or should we find each other a balance somewhere? So I ask you nicely not to twist things, but to explain to us the relationship between the advisory service and the chamber whether the advisory service will be strengthened, whether its capacities will increase, whether it will be able to provide free services to farmers in the preparation of its programmes and projects, or whether they will have to pay absolutely to the private sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89760	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thought this would be one law from my portfolio that really won't cause a special debate and that at least so we had on the parent board is supported by everyone, but obviously there are always those who like to make a problem about everything. I don't see any reason, and I'm not going to let you run this ministry into big and small, because it's a heated conflict on successful and unsuccessful, on chambers of advisory, private and those in state... All those working in the interest of Croatian agriculture are welcome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The advisory service, and even in those first legislative decisions and proposals of the 1990s, has already been envisaged as the public service provides opportunities for private advisory services and is now being done. The colleague also mentioned development agencies in the county and in the cities. And they charge their services when they do projects to farmers. It's what consultants do and charge for. A certain part of the work that must be done outside the description of jobs and legal powers and obligations of the advisory service is now charged to the end-user. It's just a favor. Agriculture is a serious branch of entrepreneurship, economy as well as everything else. The advisory service will work according to the description of its business and activities and legal obligations still on the ground. In this way we only allow that where we are insufficiently good, and this is an educational structure, we will note that 96% of all OPG owners are engaged in agriculture based on experience without any formal and secondary school, professional. Never enough knowledge, experience and new technologies. In this way, with the insurance funds provided for in the EU budget, it will be possible to finance. I'm not going to comment on this insinuation on the rural development program at all. Probably you and your colleague Petyr will handle it in no time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89762	Second replica, respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89763	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, I'm really sorry, but I think that if something is being discussed then especially at first reading, then I think it's in the right spirit that it means that until the second reading, we should be at peace, and we who think or suspect that something is possible, and all thanks to the practice we have so far, may happen but may be at peace and those farmers who are indirectly concerned by this law. I didn't say at any point that I was against the Chamber of Agronomies and against an expert chamber that would sort out all the questions on this matter but I said I was afraid something would happen. And you, as minister, have an obligation for us Assembly representatives to answer our potential doubts justly and say it won't be because of that, that and that. Or it could happen eventually, that and that, but I'm going to make sure it doesn't happen as a minister. You say the inspections will do their job, but as long as the inspections determine and do their job, the farmer is no longer anywhere. Because while our inspections are doing their job and the O.P.G. or any other craft has been shut down long ago because before that, it's already been destroyed. So, if we are discussing something, if we are asking certain questions, then we are asking them only with the intention that until the final reading of the law we will have no doubt and that this law should be passed for the general good of all concerned, and I believe that this law concerns not only the agronomist but also all those who will need it and who will ultimately pay for these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89764	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89765	In my response to your presentation, I did not speak to you personally, and I did not take your presentation in the name of the club badly, but given the replicas that started and in some ways in time tried to prevent further loss before all of your time here in the talk of new parafiscal duties for agricultural producers because it cannot be read nor was it the intensity of those who did it, and we are talking about a very professional committee of colleagues. Not with the aim of creating new jobs or new benefits for agronomies, they'll do it with and without. I'm talking about a professional chamber that will give us the opportunity to edit and that within the chamber we have precisely defined rights, obligations and modes of operation and in these very important jobs. We are talking about the extremely large resources available to our agricultural producers, we are talking about that now a large number of consulting companies that each time and do not have the best references, and even less good results or intentions behind them, and the same agricultural producers cost well when preparing potential projects. This way we want the profession to do it and to do it responsibly, it works by law and it suits what it does. I run, the advisory service is with me fortunately, is no longer run by a peasant style like it was 2, 3 years old and I am sure that they will do excellent work in the coming period because fellow Horvat and team working with him and a large number, we are talking about 250 fellow engineers, magistrates, doctor of science certainly do excellent work but it is a relatively small number of agricultural producers in the Republic. I'm sure and there's no reason not to open this dam and give opportunities to colleagues who want to do it as a private activity but under strict and clearly controlled rules. All your suggestions, not you, everyone in this Chamber is very welcome in the law, and I am, in particular, showing particular respect to all of you because every law I come personally to defend here and I am at your disposal for all questions. But don't abuse like some.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89766	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the SDSS club will speak to the esteemed Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89767	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. I will, on behalf of the SDSS Club, say our position on this law. So we fully respect the fact that the agronomic profession has its own chamber. If they can do as you say and as we've heard, the judges, they can have public notebooks, they can have dentists, they can have foresters, why don't they also have people's high professions of agricultural calling. I especially like that we are using a universal agronomic term here, which is this synonym for the overall top of some kind of education in the area of agriculture. And all I'm saying is, and I'm not going to say much because I'm a legal text and I'm not going to put up with any big comments, I'm going to say just from the fact that this is the first reading and some of our dilemmas that should be discussed here publicly, maybe put into this text or in the implementing acts of the chamber itself so that some fears in some way are limited or better controlled because of the very credibility of the work of the agronomic chamber because it's obvious that this law will, therefore, give public authority to the agronomic profession and that, let's be honest, there will be some kind of a monopoly position within the same agronomic profession. The law itself says, defines membership, and what results from this membership is for their members in relation to those who are not members of the agronomic chamber. And if I repeat myself, that means that we've just identified some of the things that are dilemmas. I'm also here when I read this and when we were at the club talking about this concept that I repeat, the profession is the one that has to say that, the profession in the debate has just said that, and we don't mind having a chamber organized. We've asked a question about the position of the advisory service. In previous discussions when we talked about agriculture and the agricultural chamber and in the previous mandate, I spoke very affirmatively about the advisory service because, according to our assessment, the advisory service brought upon itself a great burden of developing agricultural production during the period of monitoring the agricultural land distribution programme. In particular, I speak from my space, the space of Osijek-Baranja County, which has just become one of the most fruity counties with the help of the advisory service, so the most permanent plantations have risen in the last ten years right in Osijek-Baranja County, with the help of people, experts and advisory services. They were in the field, they were following our people and in the advice on the uplifting and the implementation of the incentive programme, the capital investment programme, and I think the advisory service did a very good job. And of course, what's most important, it's already said here, the most important component besides the profession is that it did it for free. She's doing it today. We are now creating a third group, a third option, because in addition to advisory services to these jobs, as Mr. Minister said, we are also working on established agencies that are either in the counties or already otherwise organised in local self-government. These agencies today are either very or even private. So they're very stalking, they get... in these jobs and of course they cost. Well, people don't do that job for a bad guy. With this we are now forming a third component which, therefore, gives the profession the possibility that the same species or even more quality species, a broader type of services, intellectuals from the field of professions offer on the market to peasants, of course it costs. And I don't think there's going to be any particular burden, financial burden on this legal concept of peasants because a peasant will be able to choose himself if he wants to use advice from regular production, he'll be able to go to our counseling service in..., get advice from those respected ladies who are equal to quality, if he wants to do better, expensive projects, then he'll have to look for a more professional team to deal with it more professionally and of course it'll cost. And I don't see anything wrong with it. So, even it's not good to say it's going to be more competitive because we can't compete with state institutions among ourselves, but in any case, it's going to open up the possibility that people are now choosing with whom certain things are going to work. Our next dilemma is Article 20, which says the name of authorised agronomist is acquired. So here it is said in Article 20 that it is obtained by enrolling in the chamber. So, one question is, what about those who didn't enroll in the chamber, or is that a simple call, you all have to sign up to the chamber to get an authorized agronomist? Of course it's the interest of the chamber to have as many memberships as possible because then it's a bigger membership fee, of course it's safer then to finance. It's perfectly logical and perfectly legitimate to me, but the fact that only those who sign up will be able to compete for the acquisition of an authorised agronomist. Here we have made a certain distinction that I don't understand, those who have been working for up to 10 years must take the exam before the Commission according to Article 5, and those over 10 years of internships, they don't have to. So someone could have spent 10 somewhere in a company, not progressing, not educating themselves by the fact that he's 10 years old and 1 day of work, already makes him an authorised agronomic. So I don't think this is a good thing, you have to sort it out, or everyone's gonna have to go through a certain extra education, that is, an examination by the authorities of the chamber or no one. There's not much logic in this. Next thing I know, I'm having a dilemma, and my colleague Nancy opened it, so conditionally speaking, some possibility of parallel work. I'm afraid that such authorized agronomies will be able to do some kind of privatization after hours, not to get into a situation like when I'm in the hospital, I have a conscience call, and when I'm in private practice for the same thing, I don't need it, I don't have a conscience call. So, I don't suppose that profession will work, but in the first reading we've,... that thing arranged so that this dilemma is removed. Article 22 is a matter of membership. The conditions for membership in the chamber are numbered here, the most basic is that the citizen of the Republic of Croatia and members of the EU countries. And the second condition is one year, at least years of work, we see that the first proposal was 3, so the ministry reduced it to a year of work. It is possible that the conditions and the real ones, I'm asking the question here, so we're opening up to the EU space, of course that's good and inevitable, which means that the agro-author from Romania will be able to open up the agency here and do some work, or from Poland, etc. etc. If they're going to get that, if that's what we're going to get at the quality of the job I don't know we'll see, let it say time. But I'm kind of skeptical. Funding, Article 32, here are the number of elements for financing the work of the chamber, membership, registration, service, donations, it would be good to see how this service is planned to be projected, because we fear that this service will be such that it will really lead to a farmer not looking for the services of this agronomic profession, the agronomic group, but because of the possible high price of services, it will still remain at that level of consultation with advisory services. Article 1 states that membership is mandatory, I do not know whether it is skillful or clumsyly defined. Membership should not be mandatory for me, it is so written in paragraph 2, so it should not be mandatory, it is voluntary, and whoever is a member has an obligation to behave in accordance with the rules of that chamber and I think that is quite enough. So, generally for us this is an acceptable text, an acceptable thing and you should go to another reading with certain finishings. I'd just like to use here for a few minutes to say something, today we've got some answers to the representation issues here, so the Ministry has answered Mr. Tudjman with a very interesting text about the situation in agriculture and in terms of the production of only sufficient agricultural production. It was good to read it, and then they would see that, at least it says export, in the last 7 months of 2014, it achieved a surplus of about 13.7% more than in 2013, that's what it says here. We see that the biggest growth in exports in the production of fruit, meat, vegetables, fat, oil, sugar. That the most significant export products are sugar, sauces, alcohol, beer, tuna, corn. In addition, one finding is important to work on, so despite sufficient building capacity of primary production and processing in these sectors, there is a lack of competitiveness. It's something that that sentence says about our farm pretty alarming. In 2014, we entered the EU, we have high expectations of EU funds, and by production we are after so much investment over the past 15 years, so much money allocated, subsidies, incentives, capital investments by taxpayers, and we are ultimately uncompetitive because of this. The lack here has been found to be unused agricultural land both state and private, property depletion in agriculture, a low level of investment potential of agricultural holdings. It's something we rarely talk about, but it's the basic thing when it comes to the development of the village. We also see that there is a lack of adverse age structure, insufficient knowledge of information systems in agriculture, insufficient education of consultants in the application of new techniques and technologies, etc. etc. So, if this chamber, with its intellectual and professional potential, will be able to resuscitate these negative phenomena that only the ministry has pointed to in the past period in agriculture, then we are armed to accept this concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89768	Thank you. The replica will first be presented by Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89769	Thank you. In your debate, you have opened up a whole series of interesting issues and dilemmas that in considerable work and cross the frameworks of actually this proposed law, there is not enough time, but I will look back on just one thing. So, the question when you talked about where it would take you and then you ended up in relation to Croatia's agricultural advisory service and then you finally decided Benevolently that this would ultimately lead to those who do not have the money to stay on agricultural advisory services. Those who have more money will address these various newly formed brains that will work projects and the like, which will be in the private sector. Well, I think that Croatian practice is not in agriculture, but in any part of society, it has shown that these processes, once you open the door, then there's a stream and that door, you unearth them, and they end up wide open and there's nothing left of this public. And these are, this is actually opening the door. And you and I may not be in this mandate but in a few years we will see very clearly in fact that it is likely that what happened with all the public services that were available, organized and free when we introduced private services that began to compete and charge them, and these public services just disappear. And that's what happened, if you want and it happens in health care. We used to have people who used to hit stamps free of charge in government offices, and today we have these public notebooks that take billions of kunas to Croatian citizens. Every public service and this public service, and these services that are now free will disappear if we open the door this way. The question is, do we need that today?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89770	The replica matches Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89771	Thank you, dear colleague. So you, too, have raised one big question with this replica, even questions coming out of the sphere of this topic today, which are a bit of an ideological sign, etc. So, the EU's open market, neoliberal capitalism on the one hand, is looking for exactly what we're doing right now. Once quite a different character of ownership, the different character of social relations assumed what we had, what we actually had. And instead of public notebooks and free legal aid, we had various kinds of social services that were of general benefit to the citizens. It's something that's past. We now have this past which we cannot and should adapt to it, but adapt it in a way that is as little harm to users or citizens as possible. I think that society, or specialized authorised agronomies, will be interesting to those large entities that will go to big projects and money. People, the peasant in my environment every day is heard with that lady, has a problem with some advice, that service works at that level and that's her job, for that is the state's salary and people are doing it correctly and that thing should be held or not be shut down. Those who have ambitions for more expensive things should choose to do so with experts, brains always cost and brains should be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89772	A new replica of the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, in most of your debate you supported this part of the establishment of an agronomic chamber which I fully agree with you. The one where you've shown some of your mistrust about agronomic profession and agronomic powers regarding certain non-quality. This Proposal for a law establishing an agronomic chamber precisely specifies in Article 31 that each authorised agronomist must have damage insurance to third parties unless such work is of quality. Therefore, the question of service quality, and this time with this article, is precisely said to be responsible for a quality service. If the service user is not satisfied he may seek his satisfaction with a certain... request. And here I see nothing controversial about these powers of the family economy just deciding whether we're going to use this service or that service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89774	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89775	I did not question the quality of services, even I think it will be professional because it is all educated and professional people in my profession especially those who have worked for 10 and more years, but I have asked the question in which we can control a social phenomenon that is evident, and that someone will work in a company for up to three hours, and behind that will use this license in private time. All right, let him pay his dues, but then that's how it should be done here in law and stand up and then we should be aware and arrange the service. I don't mind having to pay the government's due if it works any longer, it doesn't say here. And then it's justifiable that my colleagues Nancy before that and me and probably someone else will talk about it because in the end we have this on the market today we see what happens when we work a little bit in state and we work in private this afternoon. It's not about the quality of the profession. It's about the relationship to the business of basic business. And that other dilemma is mine which I have set up, and that is how the license is obtained. Those who up to 10 years are required to take the exam, and for more than 10 years they do not have to take that expert exam. I think we should all take the stand if we trust and we want to trust the public license.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89776	The third replica honours Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89777	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague you've called for Article 1(2) and perhaps a little clumsyly formed mandatory membership or optional membership, so it's here that agronoms who carry out professional and advisory tasks are bound to be associated with, and to be given professional authority. So we're talking about a chamber that defends the interests and determines the rules of conduct of only authorised agronomists, but not all the agronomists of your colleagues as a whole, the people who have finished and acquired a qualified agronomist by this classification as standing here. So a member of the chamber has a mandatory membership in this case if he wants to be authorized to be an expert agronomist, an agrom who doesn't want to be authorized, he won't join the chamber, so I read it like this. But then we can't in the assessment of the situation and in the very introduction of this law say that we keep the reputation, honor and rights of agronomists as a whole but only talk about authorized agronoms and that's two different concepts now. I think it's clear that we understand that not all agronomies in this matter are equally protected and have equal obligations and have to respect some ethical codes unless they're included in the agronomic chamber. The following question has been mentioned, therefore, by enrolling in the list of authorised agronomies, as provided for in Article 22(3), among other things, that there is one year of work in the profession, but the one who has one year of work in the profession cannot be in the founding assembly as far as I understand it, unless there are three years of work experience in the profession. So he can technically be a member of the chamber, but he can't be in the congregation and thus be elected and chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89778	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89779	In short, therefore, I think it would be a happier nomotechnical solution if Article 1 said that membership in the chamber is voluntary and then further as defined then all these dilemmas would in some way be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89780	The last replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89781	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I agree with you that unfortunately here is the first reading of the law that should bring in a professional association of agronomists and I don't think there's anyone here basically against it. However, I agree that there are always legitimate doubts because people are already reasonably afraid. Today we heard on the current clock, new agencies are opening up, thousands of new employees, everything goes to the expense of taxpayers. I don't want to be very bad, this is the first reading, but I have to say this is a sloppy first reading because it's not concrete, it's not visible. No one here today because you see themselves asking a lot of questions, a lot of questions and fears appear not only from us but from some people in the profession that they will not actually take over any private business, what the advisory service has done. In the second reading, you should write more clearly what this is really about. Indeed there are chambers and our veterinary chamber there is also a Croatian veterinary society, there is also a Croatian veterinary agronomic society, but see what... And a colleague, you've said well in the last 14 years in the area of Baranja and Slavonia has been the most permanent plantations and why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the ministry had a lot of hearing about it, it encouraged it. What happened? At the beginning of the term of office of this Government Minister, you said you didn't want any more, that little OPG would fail, we don't need it, here today the European Union is speaking differently. Yes, I'll tell you that, and that's what we told you at the beginning of the term that little OPGs must not fail to encourage them. And now the new laws come out on the hill-mounted area, on regional development, and that's why all these doubts and dilemmas are. And I think you should really, you're right to write a more transparent colleague, more specifically, that everyone knows what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89782	The line matches the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89783	My colleague Sumrak, I don't know if the minister said it, I think I find it hard to expect that the Minister of Agriculture said that small OPGs need to fail, on the contrary...... He doesn't know, I'm not here to defend him, but I don't think anyone would say that because the concept of agriculture in the European Union is based on small producers. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In Italy, there's a standard for a four-member family to live, to exist quite solidly with four acres of fruit groves, vineyards. And that is the concept on which Austria, Germany, Italy, etc. rests. I don't believe that's any different from us. So you were talking about agencies. This is not a pandan to agencies or anything like that, I don't defend this chamber too much, but I respect the legitimate right of a particular profession to join the chamber and to put this knowledge on the market in some way under some agreed terms. And I don't see anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89784	Minister Tihomir Jakovina has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89785	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'll try to intervene as little as possible, react, but when I hear statements like this from a respected colleague of the twilight, then I have to react, I never said it, and not in that form. I said there are only those who can, know and will for me. There are no restrictions on large and small, I won't name it but somewhere before I was on one as you say to a small family economy that produces over 50% of industrial potato chips for our biggest manufacturer. It's a man who knows who will and who can. Unconnected to having 7 or 12 employees, which his entire family does. Good practices, we have examples of good practice in both small and medium-sized, both in crafts and in the OPG and in large and successful companies, but unfortunately the bad ones as well. The thing that deny your position is also the new system of direct support for '15, the '20s we sent to Brussels and where we are from the total envelope for direct support of 373 million percent predicted just for small farmers, or for the first hectares. Only two, three, further clarifications to the presentation of a respected colleague of Horvat and perhaps doubtless Article 1 apply to those which, paragraph 2, you said, are associated with mandatory agronoms that carry out professional and advisory tasks and for the exercise of professional authority. I'm a dip. The engineer of winemaking, fruit growing, viticulture and new nostrification of the master’s degree, an engineer of horticulture. If I don't want public authority and if I'm not going to do that part, I never have to be a member of the chamber. If I wish to have the name of an authorised agronomist, then I must be obliged to comply with the rules imposed by the statutes and other general acts of the work of the chamber. I'm a little surprised when I hear and a respected colleague who I believe is a member of his medical chamber to talk about this way about a chamber that only starts with a lot of skeptics I don't know what experience you're having or think you're going to ask for on your chamber bodies to change it or that as doctors you can't do private practice according to how you do now and in accordance with how they give you your abilities and powers and as a member of the chamber. There were two other comments, it seems to me that it was questionable for the prices of services. Dear fellow Horvat, service prices, Article 18. The Chamber Assembly, with the previous consent of the Ministry, shall determine the prices of its services and shall adopt a Regulation on the prices of its services. We don't have an act right now, we don't have any control and no one gives any consent to the prices of private consultants, development agencies, I don't know what kind of bureaus, whether the domestic or foreign that they now have on the internal market are able to represent our farmers, doesn't control the prices of services under which they work for our farmers. This way we'll do it, and we can see who's controlling and who's verifying those acts. And it seems to me that there was still an inquiry on your part, Article 20, authorized by agronomics. I have explained which jobs are covered and how, through the statutes, through other acts, the chambers themselves will be detailed and explained all that needs to be done through the implementing acts and through the instruments for the establishment of a chamber. I would not agree with you on the quality of this bill's proposal, my colleague, twilight, because the acts of your chamber do not differ much from these acts. But I'm going to mention one more time, this is the first reading. All those well-intentioned remarks and suggestions will be considered in any case, and if we see on, normally again... the expert commission that was working on the draft of this law we will classify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89786	We have one replica, dear Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89787	Thank you. Well, here's a very short one, actually, Minister. Just taught by the experience of the chamber to which I belong, which is the Croatian Medical Chamber, I have repeatedly called for the abolition of mandatory membership in all professional chambers. I have a very negative attitude and experience in the Croatian medical chamber, and I certainly think that it is a very small benefit from these chambers and from that chamber too, and that it is a very large consumer and public money and money that they collect from membership and that it is actually some kind of, I don't know what to call these institutions that are thus formed, which very little contribute to the profession, and most often later have a purpose only for themselves and for those who are in their governing bodies or in the leading functions in those chambers. When it comes to work outside of working hours, it does not require a chamber, it takes the political courage of a resolute minister, and even if you want the Minister of Health to say no, one who works in the public health sector cannot work in private. It's not a question of chamber, it's a question of whether whoever runs that sector has the courage to say it once. So far, one had the courage of only a few months in one of the previous governments, quickly pulling it back. It has absolutely nothing to do with the chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89788	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89789	Thank you. Dear representative, a very special and interesting answer, i.e. a view for your own chamber. I am sure in fact that the chamber of agronomists will deny you and this particular skeptic that you have shown on this first proposal, or the bill in the first reading will be further repaired possibly until this home brings it and then in the implementation itself. When we listen to this, I don't see why we're actually talking about the powers that are well related to the development of EU funding projects that will be available to our farmers, and in any case these, in most cases, pay and otherwise the employees of the Advisory Service as part of their very broad powers and jobs that they don't have for agricultural producers. They give them information, they direct them but they don't write projects whether they're on SAPARD, IPARD, which were in our previous period or now a rural development program... or anything, what will be available to us. Whether to prevent colleagues from becoming authorised agronomists and not under clear rules to do that activity and beyond their working hours. Is it better to push into a gray or black zone and then do it for someone's office as they probably do now, or work or have clear rules of play that can be controlled? I think it is much more important to have clear rules that can be controlled and sanctioned if someone does not adhere to those rules or legal provisions. This is the intensity of this law, and for this reason we want to actually regulate the agronomies within our profession both our rights and our obligations and the manner of conduct and the ethics of this work on the design of projects, and thus also help farmers to have quality, people who sign by name and last name and who are responsible for what they sign in these designs and projects. A large number of capital and operational projects that have been raised and which are now unfortunately in major problems and in the reprogrammes of business banks and HBOR are because the consultants behind them have done their job sloppyly, and they are not responsible for it, and they have taken the money from the users themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89790	In the name of the SDP club, the respected Damir Rimac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89791	Honorable ministers with their associates, respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my debate something different and I will say that finally the chamber of agronomists of Croatia and finally that the agronomists have welcomed having their own professional association. Looking at who applied for the debate, I must conclude with regret that I will include the 15 reported here in this comment and the Minister of Agriculture, only four agronoms, and the proposal for a law on the Agronomic Chamber is being discussed. Interesting. So first of all, I have a duty to say, my colleague Lucic I didn't throw away, so don't you, be so cultural. So I'm just going to say, first of all, that it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89792	Wait a minute. Comrade Lucic, please. Respect the Rules of Procedure, act parliamentaryly and do not disturb the speaker as he speaks because I will have to give you a reminder. I hate to do this. ... Comrade Lucic, can you behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89793	Thank you. So finally... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89794	Comrade Lucic, I now give you a warning. The second time it's a reminder of taking a word, you know that? Act parliamentaryly. Continue, fellow Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89795	Thank you. So, as agronomists, we finally welcomed the Law on the Agronomic Chamber in the Republic of Croatia, with a note of all the failures that are evident in this first reading and perhaps exist, I must stress that the bill, as the minister himself said, did relevant professional and scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia. So I can't not mention the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb and the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek, but also the Agricultural Institute. So mistakes happen. Until the second reading, we'll be correcting some things. I expected the expert debate on the draft of this Agronomic Chamber Act to be brief. But of course I've been denied from this political side that the debate is going to be very tumultuous and hasty. However, I would also like to say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this proposal for first reading of the Agronomic Chamber Act for several reasons which I will try to elaborate in my discussion. So my predecessors said on several occasions that there would be an additional burden on agricultural producers, that it would cost them more, etc. forgetting that we are in the market system and that this is also one form of market liberalisation. So I also have to mention and quote colleagues who said, so there is a private medical practice, there is a private veterinary practice. So if I'm suffering from some disease and I'm being treated at the hospital, and if I get diagnosed, I'm personally going to ask for a second and a third opinion, and I'm going to go see a private. So, I'm open to that. Whoever says they won't do it, I think he's hypocritical, let's be honest with our dear colleagues. So, I have a special honor or pleasure to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP about the Proposal for a Law on the Agronomic Chamber for the simple reason that I have some 17 years of working hours in the profession, so I guess I know something about it. So, there were speeches, only an introductory little digression on Croatia's agricultural and advisory service that it will, by forming and enabling private advisory services, come into a bad position. I would remind older colleagues of the agronomies and those who deal with this profession, not necessarily agronomists, it can also be economists and lawyers that in the first part of Croatian independence when there was a Agricultural Advisory Service it did not fulfill its function. So, a concrete example. In Vukovar-Srijem County, for 15 years, there was no employment of a graduated livestock engineer, and advice was given to dairy producers by fruit growers. So, a very interesting fact. The burden of agricultural producers, so let's be realistic, dear colleagues, most agricultural producers don't know the price of their work. Most agricultural producers do not make production calculations, do not know the basics of the profit and loss account or RDG account. Everyone who worked in some kind of business knows what it is. They do not plan in the long term and do not include insurance costs as normal entry costs. They don't, the vast majority of family farms. In addition, I have not found in this law anywhere, the bill that agricultural producers will be obliged to pay some services of this Croatian, or authorized agronoms, as said by someone who loves to choose, but it is not mandatory. A colleague, Horvat, mentioned this response sent by the minister to a colleague, Tudjman. Yes, indeed, the last page says the lack of more competitive production and the lack of competition of producers. That's what we need. You can only develop positive competence if you don't have a monopoly. In this case, the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service was a monopolist for giving advice. So, agriculture or agronomy if we call it that since the proposal of this law, so the Croatian agronomic chamber would, by some definition, be a multidisciplinary activity, and as a biotechnical science form and produce multi-functional experts, agronomies that, if they want to deal with their business in a serious and professional way, have to be slightly economists, have to be lawyers and have to be slightly veterinarians. They must therefore, unfortunately, know very much in the manufacturing section. I personally consider the adoption of the Law on the Agronomics Chamber to be justified for institutional empowerment and organisation of the work of chambers, i.e. agronoms but also for the formation of a professional chamber. I repeat, this is the only profession that hasn't had its own chamber yet. Already in the adoption of the Agriculture Act, the article as the minister himself said the 22nd was given an additional explanation of the justification of the name Croatian agronomic chamber, and within the definition of agronomics was covered by the list of academic and professional names and academic degrees all earlier names that experts received during their training and education during some period in the field of biotechnical sciences. So I'm just going to mention one banal example. Up until '97, '98. the years of agronomies that were educated in the profile of a graduate livestock engineer after 2000, the profile was abolished and the profile of a graduated zoo technique engineer was formed. So it's all agronomial actually. The objective of drafting and passing laws is to enable and encourage the association of agronomists to coordinate work and protect public interest. It seems to me that in the replica of counterpart Mandic, he has just mentioned this, protecting third parties in carrying out professional and advisory jobs in agricultural economies, developing investment-related projects and using EU funds. So I would call this an additional value or an additional incentive for better organisation and ultimately for better, better and more diverse projects that will be applied to EU funds. Therefore, this law provides for the institutional arrangement of the framework for the evaluation of the professional title of agronomia, the continuity of monitoring of the current trends in technological change and professional progress, and the monitoring of the expertise and responsibilities of authorised agronomists at the professional level primarily through the work and monitoring of the chamber. This is all in particular, it should be of particular importance in the upcoming investment activities and in the needs of certain investment activities, the approval of investment programme loans, since the implementation of those activities has seen a number of negativity or phenomena which, of course, should ensure the existence of established responsibilities frameworks. ... lecture of professional bases, advice and services by expert agronomics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a classic example from practice. Back there in '97. By 2003, we had large investment projects with the raising of dairy farms. And people went into that production I dare say not even thinking. There were no fissibility studies, there were no certain clear projections and what the worst projection of the purchase price of milk was made on the basis of the one existing which was at that time the highest. When the price fell, therefore, the repayment of the credit assets that were raised, etc. was also at stake. I'm not talking about the land. So you can't get into milk production unless you have your own country. The vast majority of such producers unfortunately did not have their own country. To this day, no one responded to his counsel. The proposed public authority would regulate the rights and obligations and the granting and confiscation of authorisation to authorised agronomies. This framework also applies to economic operators that would employ agronomies as well as to all economic operators using their services, i.e. professional and advisory jobs. According to Article 22. The agriculture law the minister mentioned professional and advisory jobs in the area of agriculture, I will not list them now but there are nine. In 2005, you couldn't find an authorized man in the Republic of Croatia no matter what professions, whether construction, whether agronomics who could draw and project a cattle farm. There was no such thing in Croatia in 2005. And then there were all kinds of super-experts who were giving advice, people were going into that story and there were problems later. And I repeat, no one has answered bad advice to this day for a man who built a farm with a bad sloped floor, which is more than three or four degrees, so the animals couldn't stand on it. So there's a lot of problems. So, de facto this proposal of the Law on the Agronomics Chamber to wake up openly stimulates and promotes private advisory services. I don't see anything wrong with that, but I even estimate that there will be an expansion of private advisory services. In person, in 2000, I tried to make a private advisory service with my colleagues, which was very difficult, even impossible. It was a mission installation that would have been said. But let us return to the proposal of this law and the fact that the public debate lasted from April 22 to 6:05. So, full 50 days. All individuals were invited agronomies, not necessarily, so people who are such professions or lower orientations or veterinarians, scientific and professional institutions, associations and interest groups, are interested in the public. So we also have to be honest and tell the ministers not many people responded to public debates, a few and, of course, institutions. With their comments, suggestions, opinions, suggestions, changes, additions, criticisms are included in the drafting of proposals for this law, which is established and regulates the basic structure, part-circuit, public authority, membership and financing of the Croatian agronomic chamber. And finally, I think that we really need to see by the second reading how to regulate that the employees of the State Advisory Service located at the Ministry of Agriculture are in some way limited because there is really the possibility that by noon they will be doing this job, with 30% of their working ability and ultimately in the private part of doing their job with 70% of their working ability or efficiency. But what I did, I couldn't get that part out, so I'd like to get through the debate, of course, and answers to questions, resting in the chamber membership. It is therefore an article 25 which I believe is contrary to Article 43. Therefore, Article 25 speaks of resting in the chamber, and I do not think the law provided for one detail. Therefore, Article 25 provides for authorised agronomic membership and authorisation in the chamber to rest if elected or appointed for public professional duty, such as a parliamentary representative, if employed in the bodies of the unit of local or regional (regional) self-government and on a personal request. So, a very specific question that I don't read the answer to if I, as an agronomist, want to become a member of the chamber whether or not I can become a member of the chamber or if I become immediately my status in the chamber as an authorised agromist is immediately put into rest or not? Here, thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, we will support another draft of the Law on the Agronomic Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89796	We've got two lines reported. First of all, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89797	Thank you very much. You said that most agricultural producers can't plan, calculate, calculate costs, etc. Well, you know, it kind of seems to me as they calculated themselves and calculated that somehow they were doing better, and when they started coming to them, especially about milkmen when you were talking, when people from the dairy industry started coming to them and giving calculations for their new farms, getting equipment and cattle, then they fell apart. But the fact is that today in Croatia it is hard for a peasant to calculate something and it is difficult to calculate something because in halftime the rules of the game, the laws, the rules and everything else, and in principle it is impossible to know what is waiting for them tomorrow. What pleases me, in some ways you have opened this topic and proved that there is a certain link, in your debate you have said, a certain link between the Agronomic Chamber and the advisory service and in principle that the advisory service has not been doing its job at a certain time. So she needs to be put on the competition. It is not good, it is not good in this way if we want to strengthen the institutions that protect the peasants, although I think even the establishment of the Agronomic Chamber is too late in Croatia because I no longer know who the authorised agronomists will advise and who they will help in view of the situation and the situation that today is in Croatian agriculture. You're saying very few agronomists have applied for a hearing. Clearly, agronomies wrote the law, that's what's said. And I'm asking a question, maybe you know, how many peasants were involved in making proposals for this bill? There was a public debate at the time of the sowing. You said it yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89798	The answer to the replica Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89799	Dear counterpart Hrg, therefore, I have discussed poor estimates when the calculation of the loan rate was done, so the fixed price was taken by that existing purchase price of milk, which was at that time far the largest within the EU framework. So, in that part, there was my debate. If it had been planned badly so you should know, you're from that part where the production of milk and cattle production is quite strong, the belovaric neighborhood, so only your neighborhood remained relatively normal because the family economies didn't go as geese in the fog to replace the symental with Holstein. And well, it's nice of you to admit that there are problems with you, too. [[Intruder: Yes.]] So someone put them up to it, and there's no consequences. And no one has said that Holstein's cattle kill a Ferrari with which you can't go to a vineyard, you can't go around it. That's the problem. So my intention was to point out, when I was talking about the advisory service, I was talking about the age of 95, and then those fifteen years, the advisory service has been recently, for example, four to five years beginning to behave within some really standard for which it was chosen, or set. But what was she doing all those years? Do not go with rhetoric that the Croatian agronomic chamber is too late as a project, it is not. In Croatia there are quality manufacturers who can produce food. You know what the problem is? Which is very small. And I'm afraid we really lost twenty-something years in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89800	Second replica, the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89801	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Roman, I'll look back at two things. So, first of all, you underestimate all those people who aren't agronomists, so I wonder if you should say anything in this House at all except when it comes to agriculture and agronomies. And on the other hand, you disrespect people in your debate, just the agricultural producers where you said they couldn't calculate, how they couldn't make programs, so they got into this difficult situation. Mr. Rimac, by coming to power of your Kukuriku coalition back three years, 70,000 male cows have disappeared, dear sir. Also, the number of dairy producers that were 63,000 you reduced from 50,000 three years ago to 12 thousand dairy producers. So I'm asking you now who destroyed this agricultural production, the very people who are doing production, or you who are just taking such measures, this government of yours versus the agricultural producers who simply disappeared? They are gone today and they will not soon return to the scene to be agricultural producers thanks to you and your great profession, your great titles and the great charity you have done for Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89802	The answer to the replica Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89803	Dear fellow Lucic, since you have replicated this way, I will answer your question very specifically about who destroyed the agricultural production of HDZ and HSS because the SDP did not have a minister until this government. So we're not at all responsible for destroying this number of producers you're talking about. If you want to talk about destroying milk cows, if you want to talk about destroying family farms, it would be good to answer the Croatian public who advised manufacturers to enter such projects, and take such import throats that they do not know how to deal with? So, I don't remember, and that's what I've been doing for twenty years, that someone from the SDP government or from the SDP's portfolio was even present at the Ministry of Agriculture. On the other hand, I never disrespect the profession, either of whose own, and do not use such rhetoric, but let us have an argument. So I think I've made it clear to you who destroyed Croatian peasants and Croatian agriculture. HDZ had a Minister of Agriculture, the HSS had a Minister of Agriculture. It seems to me that one of the HDZ's Ministers of Agriculture is in prison, i.e. the correction of a Guli potato to the benefit of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89804	The word has now come from the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89805	Thank you, dear Vice President. This will seem to be a little longer discussion of the law. I have to react when it comes to false facts again, false facts. If you're speaking, Mr. Honorable colleague, then speak with true numbers. Yes, 63,000 milkmen or producers in the dairy sector were founded in 2003 and started working at the Reference Laboratory in Križevci, 2011. On 23.12. I became a minister there were about 14 thousand of them. Now there's less than 10.5 grand. You can't say that there were 50,000 is the difference between 63,000 producers and 14 thousand producers are people who stopped dealing and working in that branch at the time of your minister. Here goes now or a debate about the advisory service and colleagues working in the advisory service is being broken. Of the 250 and some colleagues who work there, the highest part of 90% are fellow agronomists, whether by calling engineers, magistrates or doctors, I'm talking about 250 colleagues and colleagues a little bit less is there something of this technical staff, something has gone to a natural retirement-deserved pension and other things, we'll just put it in proportion to the number of agronoms. I can't tell you the tax on how many agronomials there are in the Republic of Croatia I can tell you from 94 years of the Faculty of Agriculture and 50 years of Osijek Agricultural College somewhere around 15 thousand colleagues have come out of these benches and are responsible and are proud to do their job. So we're only talking about 10 grand or 10 grand of workmates, and here all the time it breaks down with 200 colleagues working in the advisory service. No one asked what to do with 500 or 600 other colleagues and colleagues working at the Ministry of Agriculture and other agencies or in any other body of the state administration or in any other ministry. And that's the subject of conversation but this is a professional chamber, this is a chamber that will operate according to certain rules and have certain rights and powers. Once again, we don't have it together so far, we don't have it in order and we don't know who's doing what. When a fellow Roman talked about these consultants and everyone who worked and helped our family owners of the OPG when they entered major credit obligations under the operational programmes according to the capital projects they entered, we are talking about nearly five billion kunas spent from the state budget funds for these types of support. They are not responding today and they haven't been responsible for their poorly complex faasis studies for complex projects, are these people, and most of them are HBOR's credit users have been in the reprogramme for years, they haven't even been able to pay off the principal when they entered the reprogrammes because they can't pay their dues. This is not the consequence of back 2, 2.5 years or 3 but of bad and overpriced projects, large debts, unfavourable financing and typical farm facilities where these people are pushed for a reason or for no reason. Look who was doing all the work, who was a consultant and how it was arranged. When we talk about the funds spent a few days ago, I paid off the last tranche of 28 million kuna that was the obligation of your government's voucher. 520 million in this way you left these same capital to this government to pay in 2012, 2013 and 2014, a few weeks ago the last tranche of 28 million and the obligation was paid. We've focused on much bigger and better use of IPARD as a pre-accession fund we've raised to over 80%, we've focused on the rural development programme. I would ask your colleague to tell me which country of the 28 EU countries, and we have over 100 rural development programmes because some are working regionally so far adopted and accepted by the European Commission without any objections. Poland, which in some ways gave us an example of the percentage and quality of use of funds, received comments on 100 pages three times as much as the Republic of Croatia, and has a rural development programme in 2007-2013, which was the most successful of all European countries. We received 40 pages 370 and some remarks of which most of the technical nature is alignment or compliance with the partnership agreement, we handed over a few months of rural development programme before the partnership and we will do our part of the work. The first tender at 4.1, 4.2 goes at 12 months whether you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89806	Now we're moving on to replicas, firstly respected Gyurjitsumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89807	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, I've come to you for a replica. You said no one was responsible for all those things that were done before joining the EU and no one answered what the most difficult chapters in terms of agriculture and rural development were negotiated with all EU congratulations and today we are in the EU. I have to answer through you through my replica and my fellow Roman, and you have warned him in some way that as far as the cattle Holstein and Simalac were concerned at the time, I was working as a veterinary surgeon on the ground and just the veterinarians were warning about the problems of Holstein cattle, and unfortunately I highly appreciate the agronomic profession, and I highly appreciate it, colleagues who really know how to do their job. There was something else here. And now it's very ugly when you say who's going to be responsible for that part of Holstein and the Simalt that waist, it's ugly, it's not nice. And don't be mad at you, but don't go back and forth all the time. When the results of agriculture show exactly that act of joining the EU and all that we are doing today. Unfortunately, you will answer to... in front of the Croatian peasant because you really failed to keep a minimum of what was achieved, it was destroyed. And indeed I will send you your statement at the beginning of your term when you have come probably still uninformed or on the advice of some of your former deputies who have left you that simply a small OPG must fail for warning you that it is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89808	Time. The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89809	I once again say it's a lie, and I won't say it, send it to me, I would ask you nicely if it was taken out of some context, but I never said that the kid didn't matter to me or that the kid needed to fail. A series of excellent examples of agricultural practices are small family farms where family operators work with their families with 1, 2, 3, 5 employees who did not megalomanically receive large tables and large quantities of agricultural land with the aim of withdrawing and speculating with incentives but with the aim of leading their family holding with added value, ensuring the progress of these family economies. And once again I will repeat the system of direct support in '15, '20, we have specifically turned to small and young farmers in line with the common agricultural policy of the European Union but because of our interest, 10% of the envelope is intended for small farmers as it was maximum. 2% of the envelope is for young farmers below 40 years of age, as well as other strategic documents and rural development programme as well as the economic programme for agricultural land and everything else is precisely for small and capable agricultural producers. Not just little ones, I'll say it again, we're not making a difference between small and big, but only between those who know, they can and will. These are important for Croatian agriculture and everything we do, we are actually doing for this company of manufacturers who are doing a responsible, serious job. I'm a little saddened to hear the actual debate about a good law, a lot of comments from gentlemen on this side who are generally not agronomists and even this observation that we were setting up a public debate at the time of the sowing is completely unserious, so in the end this bill was done by professional services of the ministry, agencies, colleges together. I'm sorry, we should have involved some classmates or kindergarten aunts, and the rest of them might have made a better proposal for this bill, but I'm sure the profession has made a good bill. And all of them, interested associations and producers themselves, were able to make their own proposals in a public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89810	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps you, Mr. Minister, should have included authorized agronomies for the sale of failed pharmacies. Well, maybe that would be good, because I'm answering you because you've spoken very boldly and rudely, and then I'm the only one who can do the same on this side. But what matters is what I wanted to say. There have been talks here all the time that there is competition for the advisory service and all the time here they talk about that it should actually be the advisory service that strengthens and can provide services to farmers for free or with some privileged to say the price. So it's said that the agronomic chamber is actually not going to be a competition, and now in your presentation, you said that we're actually talking here about being afraid of employees in the advisory service. Because we might have driven something out, some information that's still hiding somewhere behind this whole thing? Is what we had in mind behind it after all? The Rural Development Programme, I want the Ministry and the Service to really respond to all the comments and that these competitions are being made available as soon as possible and that they can be reported. And I offer you help, not mine, and I offer you the assistance of a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in the European Parliament who offered you this in writing but you refused, you will not even talk. And I ask you, can you, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, really allow yourself not to cooperate with Croatian MEPs in the sector that you represent and represent? I don't think that's good. And as for that part about HDZ and HSS, so Mr. Ledic Tomislav was Deputy Minister Pankretic two until 2004... SDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89812	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89813	Well, I'll keep the level I normally have, so I won't react to any of your comments or reviews. Rural Development Program... which is exclusively for the EU's high salary advocate only for political marketing or foresaw policy and uses only the opportunity as you do every 2.3 months to call a press conference and ask for my shift because I don't know what reasons with a series of false facts and falsely set facts, and one of these is a rural development programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you had read it a little better and seen it then you would have seen under measure 1 and 2, if I had to read again what measures are, who are users, why is it intended and who can be financed from it and the other is almost 25 million euros, exclusively means support for vocational education, activities and skills acquisition. First, who is listed and where we have put our advisory service that it will be able to use these funds to make it even better, even more spotter, even more efficient in the field, but also in the private sector and authorised agronomists. What's the problem? Well, a large number of OPGs and those who say small ones that my ministry so heartily destroys but also crafts and companies and large ones and are already using a large number of experts from the European Union, unfortunately, to prepare projects and to improve their production. Why not let our profession do it in a neat way? I think your veterinary chamber best shows how it protects the interests of veterinarians and how and the public powers you've been given to exercise in the best way. Why wouldn't agronomies do that? The Rural Development Programme will be adopted in time, as soon as we have protocols in which we communicate with alleu parliamentarians. Because the position of the Republic of Croatia is not sent by colleagues Piculi or colleagues to Borzan, so God forbid we or my colleague Petir because we do not have the protocols in which we send our views, especially when someone has repeatedly used those positions against this government and declares to the ambassadors and colleagues on a permanent mission that he will not and wishes not to represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia but is doing his own advert. I can't cooperate with people like that, and I won't cooperate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89814	Thank you. It is the HDZ Club and the esteemed Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Promoting the protection and representation of the interests of agronomics and agronomic profession as a whole, providing and promoting private advisory agronomic services are consequences that will arise from the establishment of an independent and independent professional organisation of the Croatian agronomic chamber. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of laws that would regulate the rights, obligations and interests of agronomists as agronomists as well as other professions, such as architects or public notaries, will thereby realise their interests. Why this has not been established so far should be asked the agronomies themselves, and no one has absolutely defended them so far. If these interests are the interests of Croatian agriculture and their production and Croatian farmers, if the establishment of the Croatian agronomic chamber raises the competitiveness of agricultural production, reduces imports and increases the share of agricultural production in the total GDP we firmly believe in, then we are on a good path. But what remains unclear for us at the HDZ Club, and what I would ask the minister to answer me, is whether the establishment of this chamber will also mean an increase in costs to our farmers. Of course, we'll talk about it when I'm done because you've already explained it a few times, and I'll just tell you that you're wrong. Why am I asking this question? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Agriculture Act provides for a public agricultural advisory service to be provided by the advisory service financed from the State budget. We ourselves are aware that we spend 40 million kunas a year on the advisory service from the state budget. In the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, which was sent to the European Commission for approval in July this year, in the section relating to advisory services and farm management, the ministry limited access to advisory services to two or three times a year. Of the total 377 comments received by the European Commission on the proposed Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission calls on the Croatian authorities to explain why access to advisory services for individual farmers of family and young farmers is limited to two times in three years. What does it mean after that? We'll use the advisory body twice, and three times we have to pay, and you say there's no expense. Deeply respecting the value and importance of the agronomic profession for the total agricultural production, we would like to know whether third and any further use of advisory services will be a financial burden for agricultural producers within three years, as I said earlier. Or that there is a space of action for members of the Croatian Agronomic Chamber, so for their additional income. If that's how I call on you ministers from this place not to create additional financial burdens on our farmers, but to find some other means of funding. We have farmers in the fields today who do not have financial resources to cover their agricultural production. We have people who haven't been compensated for plant production, we have people who won't be able to use the European Union funds because of account blocks. So do you think it's okay to impose another payment on them, or an extra charge? An additional mistrust is a statement by your former assistant from April of this year, stating that a similar job was done by a strong public notary lobby that managed to enter many laws and thus secured an additional job. Yes, we agree with the need for additional business to agronomies, but not to increase the cost of farmers. As the law is in the first reading of the opinion we are taking into account both the observations and the proposals of the Committee, legislation must also be processed. If the chambers of engineers, builders, chamber of architects, chamber of geodesy engineers, not to mention them further, have published their codes of professional ethics in the National Journal, I see no reason not to publish the Code of Professional Ethics of the Croatian Chamber of Agronomists in the National Journal, and not to publish its publication as proposed in Article 17 of the Law in the Vosnik of the Chamber. The application made during the public hearing by the Advisory Service concerning Article 39, which regulates the limitation of the right to initiate the procedure for serious injury to duty and the reputation of the authorised agronom, should be entered into the law, but should be dealt with by the Implementing Regulation. We're talking about an age that's been going on for over a year since the knowledge of a major injury to duty and two years since the injury was committed. Whoever deals with agriculture is aware that in agricultural production only after several years can they assess the actual extent of the damage done. This is why we think that longer deadlines need to be introduced into the law, how this bill confers public powers on Croatia's agronomic chamber, and the proposer himself in assessing the state and basic issues that will be regulated by this law states that certain public functions and tasks of the state administration can be performed within the chamber. So I think it is necessary to complete the provisions of Article 40, so we suggest that we make the formulation, and it says, "The control of the work of the chamber is carried out by the ministry." Let's replace the wording: "The ministry monitors and monitors the work of the chamber and therefore can request appropriate reports and data from the chamber." The same Article should also provide for the time limits within which the chamber is obliged to provide the requested data. Why is it important to emphasize all this? The members of the chamber we set up by this law, but also our advisory service, need constant education, need support to train counselors. The Ministry of Agriculture is in the presentation of the programme, but please listen to this good rural development presented this measure as part of the programme, at least it was presented at the session of the parent body of the Committee on Agriculture, whose president I am. Which is why this measure has been abandoned and whether we should question the sameness between us and the general public of the rural development programme presented and the one sent for approval to the European Commission. I would also ask the Minister to explain to us what the Republic of Croatia really means on 22 October of this year, to comment to the Commission on the Rural Development Programme 2014/202. Unfortunately, in agreement with the representatives of the Republic of Croatia they were delivered only in English. However, the contents of the accompanying letter itself are of concern to us because it says that the Commission services have assessed the proposed rural development programme and that they believe that serious issues require clarifications, but also revision of the proposal. Ministers who mean these remarks to us? If we are behind these remarks and comments from the European Commission. Please explain to us the procedure that follows these remarks which the Republic of Croatia needs to do, which bodies we need to establish in order to exercise the right to use funds from the rural development programme. Is there a need to amend some laws and adopt sublegal acts and when you expect this whole process to be completed. In November, the EU Management Board for Rural Development Funds of the European Union and the International Co-operation of the Ministry of Agriculture issued a bulletin, referring to the European Commission's observations, stating that most of the remarks concern the need for further clarifications, certain criteria, amounts of support and so on. Of course, when we talk about all of this, it is obvious that it is not just a mere observation, that these are serious assumptions that raise questions and the realization of our rural development and our programme and that the European Commission will not simply give a passing assessment of this programme. We are not here within the Croatian Democratic Union against. In fact, we advocate to consume EU funds as soon as possible. But the minister also said earlier that she would be consumed in the 12th month. He probably meant 2015. Well, gentlemen, soon next year we will be full of EU membership for two years, and at the same time we have not withdrawn anything from the European Union. We were talking about the cost here. He says he's not a expense that would be a parafiscal imposition. Well, it's not because there's no taxes, no contributions. But, Mr. Minister, this is an imposition for every man who deals with agriculture and will be able to use as much agronomic expertise as he can withdraw funds from the European Union and thus pay for the service. Because in my previous presentation, I said, and you predicted it could be used for free twice in three years. Imagine twice in three years, and everything else, of course, you have to pay. Where the farmer would pay for it like I did and say that he was hit by an elemental accident, which was affected by all the things that are not good for agriculture. Also in your presentation, you spoke of a past government that you have no opinion whatsoever, and you are wrong. You're saying I'm paying off incentives for the government that you led, so you meant the Croatian Democratic Community. And I'm asking you now who's going to pay the incentives in 2016 if they stay the same model? A new government to come will pay off your obligations. Do not build on something prescribed by law because a year ago incentives are paid. I would better ask you, Mr. Minister, why don't you pay off all the incentives for 2014 to 12 months this year. So that these same farmers can finance their production in 2014 rather than pay them at 6 and 7 months next year. By then, many farmers will disappear, simply their agricultural economies will not be, and I am sure that we will be in a far bigger problem and that this chamber that we support agronomics will not make sense, because in addition to these advisory services that we have in all our counties within the Republic because of those 40 million we spent on their personal incomes will not make sense, there will be no one to advise because simply agricultural producers will not be. And that's why I'm worried, and I'd just like to tell you this, that's how you rely on measure 1 and 2 and you say that one and another measure will receive 25 million euros at a time, and at the same time I would just remind you that it was negotiated by the former government of the Republic of Croatia and that on those wings today you are flying and running the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89816	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89817	Oh, thank you. In fact, it is difficult to understand this exact idea, the Croatian agronomic chamber is talking about the height of the profession of agronomics, but de facto a kind of Croatian chamber is formed only by authorised agronomists. Maybe they could call her that because she's just focusing on this one segment of people who will be authorized by agronomies. And it is formed as very specific, it is not even listed in the proposal whether there are similar examples, perhaps in other European countries. I don't know, there's nowhere in the explanation doesn't indicate whether we designed this model ourselves or we saw that somewhere else exists in some other countries of that kind of professional association that isn't really, it doesn't gather at all a profession but it gathers focussed on some public authority, a group of people from the profession. That's pretty interesting. ... What do you say? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, you'll tell me later on for coffee, and now let me say it if possible. Also, I've asked myself many times in a number of things, do we have to come up with something over and over again? If we have defined professions, different professions of high education and for each of these professions we have invented a separate chamber in a very separate way structured and complex, couldn't we once set up one law on professional chambers, so count the chambers and verify them in some way and leave space for each of us to develop some more of its specialities already every time in a separate legal procedure they actually let certain interest groups form these laws we invent hot water over and over again. And I think we've actually invented this law in some way, and time will show.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89818	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89819	Vice President, I'm Lucic. Please, it's beautifully written, so you've been messing up a few times already. I agree with my fellow Djurovic, and I said in my presentation that the Croatian Democratic Community is not against the chamber. Is the chamber founded only to satisfy the profession of agronomists or is it really going to benefit those who need it too much, and these are farmers? I'm afraid, as I said in my statement, that we're taking such a policy unfairly towards agricultural producers and that every day they're getting smaller and smaller, I'm worried that simply the Agronomic Chamber won't have a purpose, but first of all they won't have anyone to pay for it, and that just in addition to the advisory service at the moment they didn't need the Agronomic Chamber, but if they're guided by how some others are, then let the Agronomic Chamber be established. But again I say she will not be burdened by the Ministry of Agriculture, she will be exclusively on the burden of small producers who are so already burdened, who are so threatened, who have been destroyed. And indeed those who have survived I am sure will not be able to finance it, and they will basically work in the chamber to achieve their own personal benefit, of course for which they expect and pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89820	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89821	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I congratulate you on the debate, and I congratulate you on saying that we at the HDZ Club are not against the establishment of such a professional chamber, we are not. But indeed, all of your questions and dilemmas that arise come from the fact that no one ever ends this term, and can be said at the end of this government's term, no one trusts any more. It's exactly the same sentence you don't trust the Danish or the Danish when they wear it so we don't believe it, so out of the pure of one professional interest goes the establishment of this chamber. I've already said in one line that, excuse me once again on this one, I would say to a dictionary that may not be appropriate, it's sloppyly written, precisely because what some colleagues have spoken is not concrete, which is not explained and said what this is about. I've known very much, and I've worked with agronomists and in the advisory service, wonderful, with visions of people who've worked. I'm glad that finally the veterinary profession has a way in, but I've always warned, and especially now that the advisory service isn't in the office, it's in the field. That's one thing. But here's a colleague you've also asked questions and you've well warned the minister, boasted 25 million euros to be taken for this rural development. And you asked him well, so who negotiated it? It's not nice for the ministers to keep going, but you keep coming back not some sort of sin from the former minister and the former government. You know in the beginning and in the focus of this one. Here's a sentence, I'm done. The focus of this government is the impression that agriculture wasn't at all, it wasn't even when you were in power for four years, and that's why things like this happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89822	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Thank you. Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89823	Dear colleagues, I agree with you, but as I keep saying, I'm worried about the farm that's disappearing, especially those farmers who are wondering if they'll ever come back to life again, I'm worried that we've been back three years with invented any aflatoxins, other diseases that have destroyed our agriculture, which is why many of the trade chains of the sides that have come to Croatia, Mr. Minister, have just done that with aflatoxin, we've destroyed the dairy industry. I'm right when I say that in the last three years it's gone from 50,000 to just coming to some 9,000 dairy producers. Well, that's scary, that's worrying, and who contributed to that, and I said it on the board once, so we in Croatia are passing such laws and prescribing laws that are stricter than the EU. Is there no aflatoxin in EU milk? And that's exactly what foreign trade chains have done in just three months, so our manufacturer simply doesn't know where he's going with his production and he's been doomed to ruin, and that's why many milk producers have disappeared because you and this government haven't stopped behind those producers. If this were the Ministry, if this government had known the interest and we were fighting to get to pre-war production, which we did, then these same producers wouldn't have been destroyed, then these same producers could have returned their loans and surely survived today, so they don't exist today, and they're not there because you didn't protect them in any segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89824	Minister Tihomir Jakovina please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89825	I thank the esteemed vice president. Obviously I have to be constantly in stand by at a low start to go out to the pay phone, but I'm really forced to react every time especially when I hear the truths and things that don't stand. I've heard a lot of things from my esteemed colleague Lucic, but that I'm guilty of the appearance of microtoxins and that I invented them and initiated them to destroy Croatian farmers, which I think is really a little too much already. The regulation that we are greater Catholics than the Pope as you say, that is, that the Republic of Croatia has made the thresholds of tolerance in the same milk is purely false, it is valid for all farmers in the EU and has not just been with us. It happened in the region, but there were also problems in Germany, and in Austria, Italy with the same story and it is known why it happens in unfavourable years, wet years, high temperatures, poor food preparation and more. It's even bigger a lie that we didn't react as a ministry. 5% of us have located traceability from farm, from dairy to farm, which are farms, we have immediately made a free delivery to food farmers at the expense of the state budget, harmless care and the management of that milk, we have compensated them for that milk that was wrong, and in a few weeks we have managed to do it properly by eating that we no longer have the milk that has aflatoxins in it. You're saying we didn't do anything, we had the best reaction in the region, we solved a problem that wasn't even our agricultural producers' fault, it was just such a production year. About 6 million kunas were paid from the state budget, replacement food, education, the work of colleagues of advisory services who were constantly on the ground by farms, we knew the exact name and last name of farms, because the controls were done daily, which farms were affected by the aflatoxin problem and we solved the problem, and financed from the state budget. So find out what else I'm guilty of, I'm a minister for just three years, not taking all the credit and what was done well before, is the negotiations lasted 10 years, whether it took that long or not is the question. Since January 2012, I have been representing as Minister of the Republic of Croatia at the Council of Ministers and actively working in the interest of Croatian agriculture, in the end and the day of accession, and I am the resolution minister who introduced Croatian agriculture into the EU, not those who peeled potatoes or did something else at the time. When I pointed out 520 million, do not twist fellow Lucic, I did not talk about support because the system of support, the payment of support under the CAP is a production year that pays a year's fee, possibly countries that stand well, which have money can pay off a certain part of the advance in the same current year, so now at the end of 2014. Otherwise, all pay the support of the year fee, in 2015 for 2014, for 2013 and the like. That's how we're gonna do it. When I was talking about 520 million, 520 million were capital vouchers left like a coward's egg. The projects from 2009, 2010 and 2011 which were not paid were left behind, they gave people the vouchers that they cashed in the banks and we had to pay them, whether the end-user of those who did not go through banks and to vouchers, or to banks, 520 million. It has nothing to do with the support. That kind of thing won't be the future minister you have left behind by my ministry and me personally. He'll have clean bills. I've been pulling skeletons out of the closet for months. Notice that someone was an assistant minister in that government in 2000-2003 or that it was our fault if it was SDP's authority, so it's your coalition partner, he ran that ministry unfortunately, as well as the settings now. Once again I will say, the most important strategic document of the Republic of Croatia if we have had a good part of the negotiating framework of chapters 11, 12, 13, we have not negotiated a rural development programme, my team has worked it for months, along with professional services, with the public, with those to which we will refer and I think we have made a good document. Once again I'm going to say the procedure is well known, the deadlines until we had to hand it over, we handed it over. The Commission has 6 months to make its official observations, to those observations it is these 377 we have to answer or partially coordinate if it is a matter of technical or nomotechnical harmonisation or to answer why we have insisted on certain things. If this is measure 4.1, 4.2, if these are capital investments in agriculture where we will strengthen the agricultural sector itself, then we must say why we have projected 30 percent for this rather than for environmental or similar measures that are not so important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89826	Thank you. We've got replicas to keep going. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89827	Mr. Minister, I didn't say you were to blame for all these agricultural failures, but that you, as head of your ministry and this government, didn't fully stand behind the agricultural producers, that's correct. And I'm also aware that the occurrence of aflatoxin is possible because of what you've been saying in the midst of disasters and climate conditions and moisture that was excessive in the air and in the production itself. But Mr. Minister, aren't you responsible for not protecting the dairy producers precisely in the price where they asked you to and where they had to protest and where you forced them off Croatian roads, couldn't you have found a solution to co-finance as a ministry and this government until they got over this crisis and that they didn't have to slaughter their cows in a short time and simply have to shut down their agricultural economies, couldn't you have done that? You were allowed to do that and you could have done it anyway. And not only that, in many other things, that I'm not talking about the production of apples, that I'm not talking about the production of mandarins where you simply don't show enough interest and sensitivity for just such producers because you're not going to put yourself in their position that this year if they don't make their incomes, and they're minimal by next year they're just gone. So for which we built these coolants, we want to keep importing apples from Poland, and simply ignore their production completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89828	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89829	Thank you, Vice President. Once again, I will repeat the nicotoxin control action plan, they have carried out maximum professional and quality agronomies of advisory services and fellow veterinarians from the Veterinary Authority. 6 million kunas from the budget in a few weeks were solved the problem which was extremely large and which could be escalated by further extension and expansion to other farms. When you say that we could do with extra interventions step out of 2012 when there were protests on the road, no I couldn't, I didn't want to, I couldn't. Croatia's agriculture must be harmonised one year before its entry into the EU with the acquis completely, and more than 50% of the legislation is related to our ministry in this EU legislation and play by the rules applicable to all EU farmers from the payment of support to the provision of additional incentives, which was unfortunately the rule of getting on the road, we raise the fuss and then the minister will come out and give an additional 200, 300, 500 million interventions and thus solves the matter. He's not getting rid of it, he's dealing with reforms. It's missed, it's not done, I couldn't, and that's not how problems are solved. These people who couldn't repay you for what you're talking about have entered into major credit obligations, have entered major projects unprepared, poorly funded, poorly managed, and have therefore found themselves in trouble. Those who went to something more serious, more difficult and the process of withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds were more difficult but they were not in such problems because they had passed a firm and more regular procedure than the way you shared money from the state budget. No more extra interventions the way you talk and what you think. Mandarin, I said today in this assembly, God forbid we have a 60% bigger office every year but to be better in the organisation of sales, to have more and sortery and packaging and warehouses and in time to process the EU internal market where we can safely sell but also third markets. Economic diplomacy, everything needs to be initiated, not additional interventions from the ministry when we have a 60% higher birth rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89830	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89831	Thank you. Well, I'd agree with you about that aflatoxin, and I don't think it was such a bad reaction, and since we're otherwise able to function as a state, it was that at least it seemed to me pretty good in our frameworks and our possibilities. However, this thing does not change the other problem that counterpart Lucic also mentioned, which is the fact that in the three years of your term, Croatian milk production in both the number of producers and the quantity of milk produced has dropped drastically. And I don't know if she could, but I didn't notice or at least the producers themselves don't mention that they haven't noticed any measures whose state, ministry or anyone is trying to compensate for this fall, given that today Croatian milk production is much, much less than Croatian milk consumption. Therefore, it should probably look for ways to meet domestic needs at least through domestic production, which today is no longer the case because we all know that you know in your neighborhood and everywhere that people who had 5 or 8 cows 3 or 5 years ago today have 1 or 2 and say that they are not cost-effective so that they simply fail at the present price and cannot cover the costs. Now to rule out this second story that actually, given that we've come out of context a little bit, it would actually be good to see if there is room and what measures can be taken in fact concrete for Croatian dairy, but then, of course, the livestock industry and that other production are being added to that dairy industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89832	Thank you. The answer to the line of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89833	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My esteemed colleague, thank you for your commendation and I think that indeed the colleagues who were in the field and all the services did their best work in the crisis we had. As far as the sensitive and burdened dairy sector is concerned, I agree with you, the indicators are negative, not in all parts because we have never self-produced, or produced, given what our needs and consumption are. Even from the quota we had, which they negotiated at 765 million liters, we were at the best of years at 600 million production. During this crisis period for dairy, which did not only occur in 2012 in the first months of 2012, but in 2009, Europe was shaken, and we also experienced a succession of price differences and others. Yeah, he made that part of the manufacturer who couldn't track the market game give up that production. But the main problem is that the average production per throat in the Republic of Croatia is about 4600 liters. Belgium has about 10 grand, the Netherlands 8 and something. We are far from technology, by everything we should have in livestock from what is the average of developed farmers in Europe. There we must strive and one of the instruments is a much better implementation of the profession, new knowledge, new technologies in the country. We're doing everything in this part of the new support system. In the existing support, we used everything to help the dairy sector from specific support, retaining other support on the throat, by the way. What we could do in the circle of rules we have. For 15 to 20 is productively related to payments 13+2% where we can produce a special milk sector and that... included with additional support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 2% of production-related protein crops that are related to livestock, all direct aid to the livestock sector. The livestock industry is important because the additional value in relation to classical warfare and the production of cereals that is raw materials, we do not want to be raw materials... neither in creation nor in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89834	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89835	Thank you very much. Is it possible that you ministers are in a hurry to have a tennis match or something, something you're nervous about very, no need, we're discussing important issues? You mentioned the support payments, and that's why I just called. It seems to me that when I listen to you and listen to the peasants in the field, I hear different stories. And I have to admit, I don't really know who to trust anymore and since I'm such a peasant child by birth and I live in such places, I trust peasants more. They say that despite the fact that the number of employees in the farm paying agency has increased by 193 people, it seems to me within two years that they do not know what they are actually getting support for. That they have payments that they don't know what they got for. I don't know if you're familiar with it if it's come to you. I'm just saying what people say. Here I'm asking you to check it out, I'd be very happy to clear it up because I come across it every day in the field, people say they don't know what they got it for or what they pay for. And as for the HSS for which you keep coming back, look, for two years in the past government, he was Minister of Agriculture from the HSS for two years. They say people like this, it wasn't very good, but you're three years old like you said and now they say it's never been worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89836	Minister Tihomir Jakovina, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89837	At the time of submission of applications for support for the production year, producers themselves fill out forms and report their production for which they receive support. By paying the support for that production year, they receive a report from the paying agency on the exact amount and amount and the purpose of the funds they are paid. Nothing burdens them, however, about 20 out of 100 thousand support users in the Republic of Croatia is almost 30% already quite and online, And we're not going to say it in writing, we're also using modern tools so they can file requests and e-mails, get answers. [[Intruder: Written.]] I can go to the farm paying agency's offices and always get information. I know what it's paid for, all those who want and who try to get that information in 2014 and that's the second year since we've been in the European Union and Croatian farmers got 72% average 72% of the maximum legal envelope. No country of the EU has meant 12 since the last round, including Poland, which is already here today, but also Slovenia, Hungary and others have not paid for the support in the first and second years. On the budget we're about to make, you'll see how much that's going to be in next year what's the difference in the method of my predecessors and the rest of us through agriculture don't do social or buy votes. We are trying to responsibly lead an important, extremely important strategic sector to the welfare of these same agricultural producers. We don't buy votes, we don't do the privileged elite of a few rich people, and we don't preserve social peace through additional interventions and payments to road support that you've been doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89838	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Ivica Mandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89839	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. Here's this law, which has 44 articles today, we're discussing what our obligation is as parliamentary representatives, we're discussing it as a agricultural law. If we want this law to be better then we use more arguments to make this law that is in the first reading that we as a Croatian People's Party club support, make it better. What I would say in front of the club is that the public debate on the proposed Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber of Commerce has passed an appropriate procedure, that the promoters of a working meeting led by the president, Deputy Minister of Jakovina Mrs. Snježan Spain and with prominent professors and scientists of the agronomic profession have drawn up this proposal. I will not say that he is excellent, but I can say that this proposal, in its way of writing, is guided by clear recommendations and precisely, clearly defines what is expected and what is wanted from the Croatian agronomic chamber. With this law, the Croatian Agronomic Chamber is established with the aim of promoting the protection and representation of the interests of agronomics and agronomic professions as a whole, providing and promoting private advisory agronomic profession. It's in that first preamble, and it fits completely. And what complements this first proposal, we can say that membership in the Agronomic Chamber is voluntary. This law exactly proposes how agronomists are entitled to be full members and how they receive public authority and how it is monitored and managed. Each agronomist will decide whether he wants or not to mean it, but whoever wishes to have public authority will have to be a member of the Agronomic Chamber, which is quite clear because the chamber that protects the interest of agronomists, authorised agronomists, is also taking over part of the obligations. What none of the colleagues mentioned, that the Croatian agronomic chamber is an independent, independent, professional organisation that preserves the reputation, honor and rights of its members of authorised agronomists. Clear definition, there are no deviations and there are no dilemmas, especially since through 44 members are clearly specified both powers and rights and records and obtaining powers. What often brings us into the debate about agriculture is often taken by some other objective problems that are in Croatian agriculture, taking us away from the essence of the proposals of these legal ones that regulate powers. When we look in the Republic of Croatia, we have 233,000 family farms. It is a beautiful number, and that number deserves all the attention of both the Parliament and the Government and all the scientific institutions involved in agricultural production, and here we need to talk about facts. We can't discuss the sentiment of this profession, according to that interest in the market economy. When we come to the number 233,000 family economies, we come to have 87% of their agricultural production done in a traditional way because his dad and his grandfather, his great-grandfather, worked in that way. It's all right, but such production has no competitiveness in it, no quality in it and no room for survival. And what I think is not good, which is what we believe in our club, that the Croatian agronomic chamber had to follow a series of similar border chambers in the Republic of Croatia, medical, forestry, geodetic, legal etc., and that I believe in time that it would be a significant independent, professional corridor and legal regulations and issues of agricultural land management and the issue of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. What I would say is that we are constantly questioning the competitiveness between the public powers of the Croatian agronomic chamber and the advisory service. I'm just going to ask one question so layish, peasantly, that it can be something competitive that's being charged and something that's not being charged. So the family economy has no need to seek advice from the Croatian Agronomic Chamber or from authorised agronomists, if that advice can be given in the advisory service. I'll give an example because I come from a local self-government unit. We have kindergartens that are the founder of the city and kindergartens that are much cheaper and we have kindergartens that establish whether private people or religious communities. And what do you think, these are both private and religious, more expensive double, they're filled maximum, and this city that's cheaper, why? So let's leave the family economy to decide which favor it wants. And what I've replicated to my colleague Mili Horvato, that in Article 31 of the agronoms that have powers they are also responsible, they are obliged to ensure if it's a guilty advice or responsibility, it has no opportunity so far, meaning having responsibility and the chamber is the one that protects interests and protects interests, and is responsible for all of this. What I would say is that in the workings of the chamber exactly is specified in Articles 5 and 6 where records and everything else are spoken, obtaining powers. What is most interesting, in the 24 years of independent Croatian agronomists who, a significant number of them made their full contribution to improving agricultural production, in the results they were left alone without any possibility of education, anything. In this way the Croatian agronomic chamber has an obligation to continuously educate its agronomists who have public powers to be current with the latest knowledge. Because this is how it's been disorganized so far, and it's been left to each of the colleagues who worked in the business. What is important is that Article 15 accurately determines how the statutes should be adopted and, in essence, who gives consent to the first Statute. At the first statute, which according to us in the club of the Croatian People's Party is perfectly normal to give the Ministry of Agriculture which is both structurally and interested in making this Agronomic Chamber and this Statute useful for both agricultural producers and for the profession itself. What also does not allow the assembly, the assembly as the Supreme Body of the Croatian Agronomic Chamber, to present a price proposal. It's not left to the verse again. It is precisely specified how it can come and with the consent of the restoring ministry, which we believe that the promoters are very well acquainted with both a lot of feelings and with a lot of tactics they have joined in the proposal for this first-reading law. What is also important is that deadlines are clearly specified which dynamics and how. What is unclear for us at the Croatian People's Party club in which we have reached the number of 15 members of the assembly, so I would like to ask the promoter if it is by the number of potential members. What's the way that number 15 is exactly what I'd like to hear an explanation for. We also do not understand in Article 29 where an authorised agronomist is required to report a report to the Chamber if a criminal offence has been brought against him. In that same article, there is a need for a court of law. I don't understand that part of why and the court, why and this. It is clear to me that the court is initiating proceedings if there has been an abuse of power in that advisory procedure. But why should the court have to report if the agronomist has committed any other offence that has nothing to do with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so I would ask that the proposer explain it. What I agree with is what counterpart Franjo Lucic said about article 40 on supervision. I think that formula is more appropriate and I think it would certainly be good to think about putting such a formula which is much clearer. What is good is that this law will finally bring agronomies that will have public authority to have their own agronomic chamber that will bring their work closer together. And I believe that the Croatian agronomic chamber will also make a significant contribution to the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, that it will make a significant contribution to the preparation and development of legislative regulations that relate to problems related to agriculture and everything else. The Croatian People's Party will support this proposal in its first reading and I would like my colleagues to focus specifically on the individual members to be completed. On all other matters relating to both volunteering and work clarity, I think this bill deserves certainly praise, because this bill has been done by a prominent team of Croatian agronomists, scientists who work at higher education institutions and who surely have proposed such a law with a lot of conscience and responsibility in the number of 44 members. We will accept the proposal of this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89840	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89841	Thank you. My colleague Mandic, I don't think I can say how to react to your words about how no education has ever been or that agronomic education has been left to the verse. I think you have from the HAZU Scientific Council on Agriculture and Forestry, Sections, academics, colleges, institutes, master's degree, post-graduates, PhDs. So what education was left to the verse, which now will suddenly begin to come true through the chamber. Do you know which chamber, through the chamber, education will begin to come true? One that will be tied to the interests of different companies that will seek profits in agriculture, will then start education of agronomies on different types of crops, on different types of artificial fertilisers, on different types of protective means and all that will give you a good boost to that industry that will try to place it on the market of agricultural products as is similar to that in my profession where the same education is happening and is paid by those who also have interest that their products are placed in the medical profession right through the chamber and so on. education. These are the educations you are calling for, and believe me, it's a happier profession for you as long as you have as little education as possible. And you've had a very good scientific and professional education that shows scientific production in the fields of these sciences and professors and academics, PhDs, works in CC and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89842	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89843	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, I see you as very brave, and you're putting something to me that I said. I was talking about agronomies, not the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the Department of Agriculture. When I was talking about agronomic education and I'm going to make it clear and I'm going to do it again since the '90s. That part has been neglected for years. Until the '90s. It's been a good practice for years that in that time, I'm not talking about systems that were either good or bad, that there were all new achievements in technology, in the matter of plant protection, in terms of saving agronomies are on a special so-called. It's what we've been doing for seminars. There's no such thing in an independent state. In no word did I mention the Croatian academic community. These are the same colleagues who are agronomists, I was talking about those agronomies that are on the ground and working. If we go further on the matter of conversion and the question of everything, I wonder where the agronomies ended, where the agronomic profession ended. If we look at indicators per hectare, by cow, take whatever time you compare, compare production per hectare of Croatia with neighbouring countries you want north Hungary or east Serbia, let's see where we are. And that is precisely because of the lack of professional training of the largest number of family economies to do so. I remain that agronomies with a chamber in Article 6 paragraph 1 of the article are precisely said education and improvement. I think it's good, and that way agronomies will be forced to monitor the latest achievements and the latest technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89844	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, a colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89845	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, respected ministers with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although almost always we do not agree from the HDSSB club with the views and proposals of the laws coming from this ministry, the HDSSB Club will support the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber. It is good that such a law is in front of us today, that it is in the first reading and that it goes to the second reading. Here's the whole afternoon we've been listening to the remarks on this bill. He's solid, he's good, he should be absolutely supportive. And according to the Law on Agriculture, the legislator has determined that... the agronomics for private advisory services is carried out by the Croatian agronomic chamber and therefore this bill. Therefore, in order to represent and coordinate common interests, agronomies that carry out professional and advisory tasks must be joined in the chamber. This word may necessarily need to be regulated slightly differently or even deleted in this Article 1 paragraph 2. So, they're teaming up to do business. These are business design, design, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of works in the field of agricultural production, consultation on farming, regulation, use of agricultural resources, building of facilities, selection of equipment, process and system devices and professional training for agricultural works. Members of that chamber may open their private advisory services. What is the option for the Croatian agricultural producer? Either they will use private advisory services or they will use state advisory services. He can use either one or the other, and he doesn't have to use any. We have heard that around 250 consultants operate in Croatia and what is good with this private advisory service if the consultant will help the farmer to, say, increase the contribution by a ton per hectare or increase the production of milk by one throat, then there should not be a problem or pay to the agricultural producer, there should be no problem even paying the service of such an advisory service. Of course, if it leads to him being able to produce better quality. Now here, which I find somewhat controversial, in the article of the law on who has the right to enlist in the list of authorised agronomists, there is therefore a natural person by agrinom who fulfils the following conditions that a Croatian citizen or citizen of an EU Member State is, that has one year of employment, it is commendable because in the original proposal there were 3 years of employment, we know how difficult it is to find work in agriculture. The problem is finding him anywhere in Croatia, and especially in agriculture it is extremely difficult. So this is commendable that you suggested a year's work. But that it has a level 7 qualification and that qualifications have been acquired in Croatia or abroad. The question arises whether consultants from Germany, France, will be coming in private? It may not be bad either, but whether fellow agronomists from Romania will be able to share advisory services with our agricultural producers. Perhaps you should consider changing the wording of this article. As I said, the HDSSB club will support this bill because we heard and through discussion today's plant production in the Republic of Croatia is going on at a million and 300 thousand hectares. There are more than 230, 240 thousand registered agricultural producers. Unfortunately, we all know that the educational structure of these producers is not at an envious level. So, are they ready to accept the huge EU market, did we send them well into the EU market because they are free to say they have shown a great lack of state interest in helping these agricultural producers to find out which cultures are highly profitable, which are cultures in surplus, which are cultures in deficit. We know that we are only sufficient in the production of wheat, corn, teeth, soybeans, oily tails, sunflowers, and as far as the fruit is concerned, they are cherries, cherries, apples and mandarins. So, in any case, we need to help our agricultural producers to focus on maybe producing some other cultures that will generate greater income, but also greater profits. We are where we are, we are a member of the EU, we have signed an EU accession treaty, we have the right to a first-degree financial envelope, these are direct payments of 373m euros, the second-degree rural development of 320m euros, and that is about what we can expect from some subsidies. But the state can do what I almost always say to reduce VAT to food, reduce VAT to repromaterials, help these peasants to make this crisis easier because we see that virtually every day more and more family agricultural economies fall apart, young people leave the village, do not continue the traditional production done by their fathers and grandfathers. It is the dark side of Croatian agriculture and I think we should all think together about how to help these people stay in the country. Because as I have already said, but we haven't shown our agricultural producers the entry into the EU, the European market, because when you take a child to kindergarten for the first time and take him by the handle and show him how to go to kindergarten, the second, third, the fourth time, he will already learn how to come to kindergarten or school. So this is where the state should pay attention because we see how much imports in 2013 amounted to $2.7 billion and only $1.5 billion in exports. When we talk about competitiveness, well Croatian farmers with such prices now offered on the market can certainly be competitive in most European countries, because if they get for a kilo of first-class apples in Croatia 1.5 and such an apple is bought for 3.5 kuna in Serbia, then it is quite clear that Croatian agricultural producers are highly competitive. The only thing they need is to show them the way to that European market, and I expect from all of you in the government to finally open your eyes, accept the problems they are, and do everything you can, which can be done to make our agricultural producers finally stand on their feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89846	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89847	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, given that this has been going on for a long time and that a lot has been said in replicas just a few more thoughts, concrete proposals regarding this bill. So, the chamber is in any case that but balanced to satisfy the members of the chamber but also the ones for which it is founded, so the peasants, the food producers. What I would like to point out here is Article 9 and it is also related to the Chamber’s assembly, so may the Proposer explain who provides even representation and by what criteria. Is this regional representation, gender representation, per degree of education, or is it once again given to the minister the discretion to determine who will have the right to make decisions? In Article 19 of the Chamber Assembly, with the prior consent of the Ministry, it shall determine the prices of its service and shall adopt a Regulation on the prices of its services. I think we should complete here and protect, so I repeat, those for which services will be provided. And my proposal is to add here with the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. I also think that, as has already been here and said enough that it should be added to this bill that employees of agronomies in any public service cannot provide the services of an authorised agronomist and charge them. So that many of the doubts that were discussed here would be resolved and removed in principle came to a better quality of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89848	A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89849	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what my colleague Hrg said and said a lot of things was said, but I would still take this opportunity to refer to some of the important facts that I think are important for Croatian agriculture in general but also for this law. In fact, several colleagues before me have highlighted the problem in agriculture as not the education of producers and their orientation of traditional production. This is a really big problem, especially in the EU's global market as we speak. And I'm going to tell you a vivid example of everyday life. In fact, I think it's the 1990s when one agricultural institution, a scientific agricultural institution in Osijek, did research on agricultural land across Slavonia to determine the composition of minerals and other components in the soil and, accordingly, recommended to the producers that are the best, are doing best on certain soil types. After doing research, they came to the villages, called together the choirs of farmers, and explained to them the results of their research. And so a fellow scientist talked about a village, says you'd be best off building your own soil to do vegetable work, and now I'm a cartoon, let's say you're growing cabbage or paprika. The reaction of those farmers was such that they spoke mostly of my grandfather planting wheat here, my father planted wheat and I planted it. And the arguments that scientists are often there... such as offerings if they were to focus on those cultures that could bear more yields, bring even up to 30% more yields, they couldn't convince them. It's unfortunately a picture of our agriculture, not just in the '90s, but even now. Another moment is extremely important here, and this is a preparation for the EU and the EU's global market. I believe that we have not prepared well for the EU, not just for agriculture, in all respects. So, from the moment we got... down to the EU's accession, practically systematically it wasn't working on the education of the staff that could be executed, meaning in all fields of social action, the maximum positive effect of our membership in the Union. And that's what the problem is. In the past few years, we have only been patching up such an existing state, trying to extract the maximum of what can be done, and the indicators primarily speak for themselves about the percentage which, therefore, means the growth of the percentage of the funds withdrawn from the European Funds that have been available to us, whether pre-accession or now European funds as such. But that I do not stay too long on general problems and return to the Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber, so the formation of an agronomic chamber has its own history. So it's not something that's new even in agricultural circles, or agronomic circles, for a long time there's a desire for a profession for so-called. Cevovan association and regulation of the profession. Before the Homeland War there were agronomic societies. They acted, however, primarily in the scientific field, so they were not conceived as if the Croatian agronomic chamber were supposed to be, but therefore some form of association of professions existed. Their activity, therefore, was related to science, and in the chamber is an emphasis on the individual, the agronomist, the expert. The meaning of the name agronom, so if we are to put it this way, so the law uses the universal name agronom and means the qualification of agricultural profession that has and knowledge, but also responsibility above all, maintaining the development of Croatian agriculture. Therefore, there is no concern that this kind of organisation of the agronomic chamber will enter the area of some other institutions, we have already heard a lot about it, I would not hold on to it, so agricultural advisory services, agricultural chambers, etc. The aim that would be achieved by this law is, therefore, that joint agronomies, agronomies that are joined in Croatia represent and coordinate common interests and that through public interest they create networks of authorised persons for professional and advisory jobs in the area of agriculture. What I would particularly like to underline here, I say, is that some colleagues have said before me, that there is an emphasis here on the responsibility of the one who gives advice, so that it is not done as it is so far that the advice can be given, and the consequences are exclusively borne by the one who pays for it. I would also like to say that the agricultural advisory service primarily plays a role in consulting, not from, therefore, as the minister himself said, making projects and such. So, their advice is whether or not the farmer will listen to the advice, it is already on his soul, and he can give them advice, besides contact the European Funds, but as well as where, it is a matter for development agencies and similar institutions. So, I don't owe you much to conclude. Since it is the first reading, I think we have plenty of time to draft the final bill, possible ambiguities can be solved. The professions, all professions, as well as the agronomics should be able to gather into independent professional organisations. This is also not about compulsory organisation, it is voluntary, everyone who wants, agronomies, means that they want to deal with advisory and other activities prescribed in the law, they can, but they don't have to access the chamber. Why is that, why do I think it's a good thing? Because a strong and well-organised agronomic profession can give a crucial pain in the further development of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89850	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89851	Thank you. So at the beginning of your presentation, you have actually drawn a slightly discriminatory, unfair conclusion in general about the Croatian village and Croatian agricultural producers. I'm not going to repeat it now, but you remember the picture you took yourself. I don't think that picture actually is... total according to the structure and according to our agricultural producers. And when it comes to preparedness for the European and global market, please tell us, and what segment of Croatian society was prepared for EU and global competition? Well, it's a question of competitiveness where Croatia is not competitive in any area, so of course it's not even in the area of agriculture, so we don't have to extract agriculture in particular as something where we're extra unprepared. We are completely unprepared everywhere and in 97% of all sectors of this society we are uncompetitive, we fail to produce a product that is cheap enough and high enough that we can place it on that market. This is the problem of Croatian incompetence which is recognised as such in all the analyses that anyone has worked on Croatia. And the third thing, when it comes to this particular chamber, the problem is this law written like this, the question, I don't think it should at all, but when it's written like this because it's not gathering a profession, it's gathering a part of the profession that's gathering for interest to work on public authority jobs. That part of the profession that wants those public powers must join the... chamber because only through it will it get a license to perform these public powers and that is the problem. Of course, the rest of the profession will not join the chamber because the chamber's business has nothing to do with the profession, but only with those public powers where I don't actually see the meaning of this kind of structure of that chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89852	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89853	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Đurovic, I have no intention of being, it was not my intention to insult anyone, but we have to look into the eyes and say that it is mostly the case. I'm not saying that all farmers are such, however, you have those who are very proactive, who are not always educated, but have a awareness that agriculture is a very dynamic economic activity in which you should constantly educate, inform, improve your methods and what you do. So the generalization wasn't at all, nor was it with any bad intentions. And as far as the EU is concerned, I just said, no one means we haven't been prepared in any segment and that's the problem. So in preparation for the EU, we began to think practically a year before we joined the EU. And that we can be competitive, so I think we can. We have an example of a whole series of other countries similar or slightly larger than Croatia that adapted in time and which successfully exist on the market. Now let's not give examples specific we can and about it, of course, but there's still hope we just have to move and be quick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89854	And Tomislav Jagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89855	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So since I'm finally going to try very briefly to say a few words that I think are important, which are related to the adoption of this law. This law certainly needs to be welcomed. It is a law that will likely experience some changes in the future, but it is quite certain that it will have a significant impact on the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture above all. Observation of this law can be done from several angles, one of them is the height of the agronomic profession, the minister also said, the other is the reason for the difficulties of Croatian agriculture. Here it is said that 96% of farmers process or produce agricultural products based on experience. Strong incentives that have come to agriculture, and in fact have not achieved the result expected and the most important possible reasons within the profession. We must first of all understand that it is economic activity and the market. Here several predecessors emphasized one key word that I think is in this law, which is responsibility. When we talk about counsel, we regularly discuss advice that does not need to be documented. It's important to understand that this is about a law that benefits farmers, not their damage. We're talking about documents that will be signed and certified by authorised agronomists. ...I'll do it on a specific example. In tobacco production, someone advised producers that it would be better to change their energy, so to switch from gas energy to solid fuel, and then in this process that was led in one way or another to fire and burned down the tobacco droughts. Who's to blame? You don't know. In this case authorised by the agronomic authority to have its signature and seal will make such a project, will, of course, hire other professions that matter whether it's a machine or other profession that are also authorized to have their seals and when they hit the seals nicely, we will know who's responsible and who hasn't done his job properly. Article 22(2), subparagraph 4, when we talk about membership in the chamber, it says that it has one year of work in the profession and passed an expert exam or that it has a doctorate in the field of national professional direction. I will draw a parallel between the Law on Architecture and Engineering in Construction, says that after completing the relevant graduate university study, she successfully implemented the prescribed chamber procedure for the trainees, future candidates for entry into the chamber for at least two years, or that after completing the relevant graduate professional study she successfully carried out the prescribed chamber procedure for the trainees of future candidates for entry into the chamber for at least 4 years. It seems a little harder for people who want to get into the chamber, but believe me, it makes sense. I hope that's what's going to show up in practice. It may also be necessary to consider a board for enrolment of several members, for example. Four members. The registration board would also register members in the chamber and decide when someone stops being a member of the chamber, that would not be a bad solution. And the law should perhaps define the register of the office of authorised agronomists, so legal persons. According to Article 25(2), the membership shall cease if employed in the bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, this may seem to be the case in the debate. In conclusion, the law should be supported, and I believe that by the second reading we will have certainly a good legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89856	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89857	Yeah, here's a really short one. You gave me a good idea if we're going to solve the problem of responsibility in society by forming chambers, I suggest we also form a chamber of politicians and that we finally know which of the politicians for whom the political decision is guilty or responsible is constantly being pursued by some policy, and they can't find the culprit. This is how we shape the chamber, the decision we make, we strike the seal, and the citizens will know exactly who they will sue later and ask for harmful political decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89858	The answer to the replica Tomislav Žagar. He won't. Tihomir Yakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89859	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is already becoming actually a rule, and we're going to have to get used to it, I'm not rushing to tennis or anywhere else, but I'm glad to be in this house that in fact all of our laws that our hands-on-heart heard today, this law could have come out 10, 15 years ago was an initiative and it seems to me that someone was asking me who was preventing agronomies. There was no hearing of politics or the resolution ministry. Croatian agronomic society gave initiatives, respected deans who were with me with the initiative said it was repeated repeatedly that there was no hearing. Here's the government and this minister and this resolute ministry have given support, and I wish someone had done it before, so we wouldn't have to discuss today after 25 years of independence about something that could have been solved a long time ago. As did the Law of Cooperation, which has not been implemented in this country for 25 years and so on. What makes me a little sad is that when the debates about these laws, the least we can hear about the law in question. Today there have been discussions about a lot more things than really about the bill itself. Me and my associates have carefully recorded, and in general we have some 5.6 objections directly related to the law, and this remained more a general debate or political debate in some parts of agriculture as important or one of the most important strategic economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. That's where we agree, and if that's why every time the debate in this House is this long, I'll stay if I have to answer all the questions there all night. I'm going to try very briefly now to answer what I really think is important. It seems to me that the respected colleague Lucic made two remarks on Article 17 relating to the code of professional ethics, his publication in the National Journal, and not in the Voice of the Chamber, we can accept it immediately. The second remark was on article 40 of the supervision of the ministry, I think the proposed formulation was slightly different, I expect either from the club or from it's own proposal for an amendment, so we'll discuss it until the second reading. In front of the club, colleague Mandić had two proposals or remarks on Article 9. Why 15 members were one of his colleagues yesterday, a colleague of Hrg asked the same question, or whether this would refer to the Chamber’s assembly to ensure the exchange of representation of members, 15 of them, not sexually or in any way at all, but concerning professional orientation or professional classes, 15 professional classes, and we believe that one representative should be represented from each professional class because of the balanced work of the congregation’s body. The second point was related to Article 29(1) and (2) of the Notice relating to the infringement of a criminal provision, who, as well as what, was in the making of the law itself but also in the Government's procedure, the proposal of the Office of Law to be in that formulation and is actually related to Article 22(2) of subparagraph 5, which states that a member of the Chamber cannot be an agronomous against which an investigation is initiated or that a criminal proceedings for the acts referred to in Article 23 of this Act are being conducted. Well, then we need to get information in some way, and that's how this article is proposed, consistent. I am pleased to present on behalf of the team member of the HDSSB, who said there is a law that will give support, and in the debate you were really constructive with a lot of good ideas. It all depends on the choice of users. Yes, they will be able to combine you either said either public advisory service or a private advisory service that will either be or combine one or the other or not use one, that is the worst combination. Unfortunately, good examples and excellent new plantations and orchards but also farms now use external consultants and this is the choice of end-user. It is a service paid on the market through the rural development programme not only through measure 1 and 2. Through measure 1 and 2 we have made it possible for our advisory service to be additionally funded from the European Union funds, but also by other measures through that technical part of project preparation and the rest of our fellow agronomists, as well as other colleagues who will be able to work on such example projects to measure 4-1 or 4-2, 4-1 are investments in material assets, capital investments in farms, in turn, in the preparation of projects and other funding from European Union funds. Romania is not the happiest example because I would like as much as with... We see Romania and Bulgaria as members of EU 12 who have entered before us, but Romania's external trade balance is much, much better than we are, but also from some of the old Western European countries, I think 118% more export than the imports of food in that same Romania. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is likely to be some good practices and examples of good agricultural practice being implemented with us if so successful and so many products and more exports than imports. I replied to Article 9 of my colleague Hrga's debate, Article 18, we suggest that additional consent be included and the Croatian agricultural chamber does not, I can say this here, we will discuss it on the body but not. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture knows how it was founded, we know what it was doing and we know how it was financed. When I mentioned 10, 12 million compulsory, because membership was mandatory for all farmers in the Republic of Croatia, which was 0.5% of the incentives that should not have been downloaded by these farmers. They were removed without their knowledge, funded by a chamber that worked quite non-transparently and not in the interest of these same agricultural producers. I don't see any reason why service prices are controlled by that same chamber. Thank you very much for all the good suggestions, I hope, in fact, that by the next reading, we will further improve this law and that we will have maximum support for the adoption of a professional chamber that is an improvement in Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89860	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89861	We are now going to decide on the points of the agenda that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber, first reading, P.Z. No. 720. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the draft law on Croatia's agronomic chamber is being adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 99 for, 14 abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89862	We move on to: 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the Multiannual Funding Agreement 2007-2012. Done on 4 November 2013, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 718; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the proposal, Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina will explain. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89863	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to be very brief. The framework agreement concluded in 2007 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community has laid down rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid under the IPA or pre-accession assistance instrument. More detailed cooperation rules are governed by the agreement, the rules for cooperation on the European Commission's financial assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of assistance under component 5 of IPARD, the IPA pre-accession instrument concluded in 2008. It's so-called. A sectoral agreement, while financial commitments are governed by a multiannual financing agreement. On 15 May 2014, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement '07-'12. concluded on 4 November 2013. On 23 June 2014, it was signed on behalf of the European Commission in Brussels by the Director-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, while it was signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture. In order to implement the IPARD programme between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Agreement lays down the financial obligations and conditions necessary for the granting of European Union aid to agriculture and rural development, rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid and the conditions under which this aid is managed. The main objective of the adoption of this law is to further establish for the Republic of Croatia a basis for the free use of financial resources under the IPA programme, component 5 rural development. This Agreement amends by supplementing the annual agreement in such a way as to amend its addendum to the European Union's financial commitment to the Republic of Croatia for 2013 amounting to 27 million and 700 000 euros and amending the European Union's financial commitments for 2009. In accordance with the provisions of the sectoral agreement and rules N+3 from the initial location for 2009 of 25 million and 800 thousand euros, 13 million 313 thousand 258 euros were suspended. Total value of European Union funds for the implementation of the IPA programme 5-Rural Development in the period '07-'13. The year amounted to 144 million 283 thousand 680 euros in total envelope. In view of the planned dynamics of the withdrawal of European Union funds and compulsory participation in the realisation of the Republic of Croatia, 25% of the total appropriations of the programme in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Ministry of Agriculture were secured in 2014 by a total of 250 million kuna and in the projections of the budget for '15. And '16. The year is planned each year for a total amount of 280 million kuna. These amounts represent 25% of our participation on the 12th plus the funds we're withdrawing from the IPARD. The European Union has notified the Republic of Croatia with its note that the process of confirming the agreement by the European Union has already been completed and will be formally required by the adoption of this law in accordance with the urgent procedure and by way of its entry into force of the Republic of Croatia without signed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89864	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89865	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm the only one I'm really gonna cut short, I just need to say a few words. So let's not doubt whether this legal act should be adopted or not, but I must say something that I have spoken of before when the pre-accession programmes have been withdrawn. So, this is the kind of nerdy and incomplete explanation I don't know why it had to be submitted for. So you approached us like we don't know that we're just dealing with IPA projects or maybe even if we're employees or some bodies dealing with the implementation of these programs. Let's say in the section on the law, the bill's proposal is said: the need for these amendments and additions has taken place to harmonise the rules on the financing of pre-accession assistance from the 5-Rural Development component... rules, for component 3-Regional development, component 4-Development of human resources. On the other hand, it is stated that the basic objective of adopting this law is to establish a basis for the grant of financial resources to be used under the IPA programme, the 5-Rural Development component and for 2013. Well, that's wonderful, but is now a reason to comply with the rules of financing with other components or is the main goal of enabling the use of funds for 2013. Well, it's probably both, but the reason, the real reason isn't great at all. He's sad, though. It is that the funds that have been allocated to us have been returned to the European budget. Why? Because they have not been used, therefore they have been given advance by the European Commission, but under the leadership of this Government, the negotiation of the financing of eu projects is going so great that it should be shown that it must absolutely not be pointed out, so it must not be seen. But you yourself said that even 13 million 313 thousand 250 euros for the rural development component had to come back from the 2009 amount. Then it is no wonder that the explanations are unclear, and this legal act whether it should be accepted, of course it should and should help save what is saved to and enable the use of funds for 2013. However, if it is to be accepted, but we cannot accept this way of enforcing the government and all that is happening. For example, when we look at this week's website of the Agriculture Payment Agency, it is evident that the most important news is the visit of employees of the Montenegrin Ministry of Agriculture. They came to the agency mentioned to train themselves to work in withdrawing funds for IPA programmes. So when we see how our people work here and then we wonder what that makes sense, is it even possible for someone to come here and learn something? Because from what we see in the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development since 2012, it has set the world record in slow motion. For example. for the tender of measures... diversification, which was announced in August 2012, no project was agreed by the end of 2013, and the agency was obliged to issue decisions within less than 100 days. Because you keep talking? The situation isn't much better in other measures. And this slow bargaining has led to a large number of users giving up and this leads to the loss of eu funds. Finally, at the end of 2013, we should not have lost a single euro, and then 7m euros were taken away, as was seen in the report on the pre-accession programmes of June-December 2013. At the end and the end of 2014, we will probably welcome an even greater loss. So these are IPARD funds that are small anyway, and we already have the Rural Development Fund and 330m euros in 2014 and the question is how will the government use them, does anyone know that at all. The situation is mildly frightening. They object to us that we are the economy in the European Union that is the worst, we are not going out of the crisis, however, and the funds are not being exploited but are coming back. So it's not clear to me if anyone really sees it, whether it's really so uninteresting and it's really not just an opposition that can always be said how you say politics or something. No, this is really objective and this is reality. And if we really don't wake up, it will happen that in the Eu Funds system, there will be consequences that won't be resolved for years, and you have to admit that the legacy you received from the previous Government as regards eu funds wasn't so bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89866	Finally, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89867	I thank the esteemed vice president. I was hoping that in fact this law would not have a debate, if it had not expected to come from the right side of the pay phone, from the respected representative Miles, but here I am using the opportunity in the final word some things then further explain because these are unfortunately data that are not good but relating to the previous period. So let me explain if we're talking about using IPARD. It is said in the introduction from 7 to 13 rule N+3, meaning zero years plus three years next year. So I will point out that in 2010 and the 11th year we withdrew 1.77% and 51m euros, respectively, your government only used 276 145 euros. Back in those two years we'll figure it out ourselves from the total amount we pulled this part. In 2012, 48, below 48 and a half percent. The first year when I was a minister and ran the system, when I was working on a reshuffle, the organisation of a paying agency that we hear about today more than Mr. Hrga, which is no longer large remarks there, is also responsible for raising and for greater urgency and speed in the processing of objects and for withdrawing still 12 million 486 thousand euros, i.e. the return of 13 million to what this law applies. In 2013 the use is already almost 72% of that fund. In this year and in the remaining years until the end of the IPARD use, we will raise to 100%. We were supposed to practice at IPARD, and before that, at SAPARD as pre-accession funds, learn how to write projects, how to use European funds and prepare for all these funds we have. We see how good the results of your government were, and how much still I am as a resolute minister I am dissatisfied with twelve and thirteen, but they were yet to be acknowledged because mathematics is an exact science that speaks in numbers how much it was a leap in the use of these same pre-accession funds. I say again, the IPARD is over for us. All the projects we still have are being processed. The use should be in the last two years and 100%. We have recent examples since entrepreneurs are even withdrawing their projects because they are limiting and limiting compared to the funds available in the rural development programme. They are awaiting first competitions in the 332m-euro rural development programme. The first competitions are already under way five two, already under way. By measure four one and four two are in preparation. In 12 months, even before formal adoption by the Commission, the programmes will be published and I am sure that realisation or exploitation will be much higher even though we are talking about 12 to 13 times more funds than on IPARD and we were not prepared and able to use the 25, 26 million available to us. The whole system is working and the agency you call very sarcastically spoke about a new employment of a hundred and a few people. So one of the conditions, 249 blocking findings in the accreditation of the Payment Agency, I got from foreign auditors, and if we hadn't accredited the Payment Agency, we couldn't pull the euro, nor the euro on projects just for rural development, but also for direct support. And this year, we withdrew 720 million kuna from the European Union budget for direct support only, and another 200 to 300 million, which for the wine envelope, which for the IPARD, for the other projects that we have, the school fruit scheme that we have withdrawn. The Agency for Agriculture, Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development must be accredited. She had 20 million higher budgets, 500 employees and 249 blocking results. One of the blocking findings of insufficient human capacity, training, lack of room, program, maladjustment of procedures. We had to solve every single one of them. We worked six to nine months until we removed all the high, medium and low-risk findings. Then we could get temporary accreditation, and after a year and full accreditation. Our agency has, it works, it can always be better. If I have to hire another 100 people to work on these projects, to run projects, to make their reaction to control, to check, to issue solutions as large as possible, to have these 332 million in as much as possible withdrawn. Not 107% as it was in the tenth and eleventh years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89868	Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89869	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I don't know why you got the impression that someone was attacking you or the agency and talking. I'm just saying that I don't understand why clearly and transparently at all, so you've made this about as if everyone deals only with IPA programs especially in public. Why can't it be said in public, so because we haven't spent the money we have to change and supplement this law. Nothing else. We need to change the deal, so it's clear to everyone. And about whether the agency is good or bad, I don't know, I don't work there. I'm just reading and I'm having a really hard time getting by. I have to be honest. Because it's so cloudy, but I can read it again that from August 2012 until the end of 2013, nothing was done by competition, say, measure 302. I don't even know if you know about it. Next, you hire people. But why don't you get a job, so there's $250,000 in public administration. Don't you think we could requalified them? And that was one of the European Commission's messages. Why are you hiring them? Why are you bringing the new people you need? I think it would be easier for you to educate these. And let me finish. I didn't even go to talk to the government before, which one did. I just wanted to say that the government that used to be left a condition like that. If she hadn't started the project, so you wouldn't have anything to sign, you wouldn't have any results to pick up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89870	The answer to the line of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89871	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be brief. I think we share the same opinion and the same dissatisfaction with the weak or low level of use of the funds we have at our disposal. Today I said 5 billion kuna we spent on the state capital support budget, on various programmes that we funded from the state budget, and on the other hand, tens of millions of euros went through our fingers. The level of use of funds must be raised especially from everything that is now ahead of us. Your debate was too critical for me, and that's why I reacted so much, if it's focused on not being satisfied and not being satisfied with the use of the previous governments, so even these two years my first one, that's where I agree. But once again I say 1.07% in two years you've had exploitation. In this year, I raised to 40 and some percent, in the last year, in the year of the amendment to this law to 70 percent last year. And this year, the results will be better. And I'm not happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89872	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89873	The final draft law confirming the agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the EU and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement 2007. - 2012 concluded on 04 November 2013, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 718. The debate on the final proposal is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed law was passed unanimously with 112 votes in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89874	And we're still going to do it today - a proposal for a Law on undertakement, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 733; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session, and the introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Gordan Maras. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89875	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, we have a first reading of the draft proposal, or Law on undertakement, adopted by the Government at a session on October 30th of this year, and which regulates a so far area that has been defined exclusively as a municipal activity, and this may be the biggest change compared to what has been so far. It was regulated by a law that regulates municipal activities, and yet we believe that the standard in the EU is that one part of the work carried out under the funeral activities can be on the market and deserves that I would say and regulate it and that it is regulated by a special law. Speaking in Croatia, it is good to know about the situation now. So we have 50 thousand funerals a year and we have about 350 undertakers who are mostly engaged in this activity, so entrepreneurs, and from city to city, from local self-government unit to local self-government unit, that's differently regulated. In some areas, utility companies carry out only this activity, have set concessions somewhere. For example, in Zagreb there are 30 entrepreneurs the right means to carry out funeral activities so that we do not have one uniform practice and we have something that is sometimes not regulated, but only to carry out activities is derived from practice. So it's not even a law to regulate municipal activities defined by what, for example, if a person who died in a city where someone has no concession when transporting to another city where someone can again have no concession or have a concession means users of services quite often, of course, at those moments, don't even think about it, but it's in our interest that people have a service available under of course the highest possible standards in the territory of the Republic of Croatia everywhere. I said how much a funeral is in Croatia a year, the assessment of that service market is also over 500 million kuna. I'm just saying that to see how many utility companies do these services and how many entrepreneurs do it. So, at this point, 52% of the services are done by utility companies, and 48% of entrepreneurs, these 350 people. Which means that there is already good practice and quality and things work of course in the private sector and it is not necessary to consider it a communal activity. And so we tried to separate a part of the work related to the funeral activity from what is now considered a communal activity, which is exclusively related to the transport of the deceased. So when we talk about maintaining a cemetery, when we talk about burials, it remains, of course, in the jurisdiction of the local self-government units, and that is in itself clear that it is a communal activity. This is not the case, of course, in the EU countries as well. If there had already been a question and this debate was already being held I would have said more than 10 years of talking about that this House has already been debated and has received a request for credible interpretation of what it is a municipal activity and in 13th of December 2002 it took the view that it is all up to the meaning of the moment or the limit of the cemetery to bury municipal activity and that transport and other things can be excluded from it and that they should be excluded from it. The law itself isn't long, but in my opinion, I'd say it defines certain things that matter to people. What is primarily a funeral activity, what undertakers can perform, what activities they can organize and how they can do so. On the one hand, we have one newspaper that appears, which is insurance from potential damages that can occur throughout the funeral process and from now on and on, when this law is passed, each undertaker will have to have a guaranteed amount for potential damage to users of services. So we also protect the families of the deceased from having, I would say, in some ways, the most qualitative service possible. I'm not going to read to you now what is considered a funeral service, of course the most important thing is transportation and funeral organization. Also, there is something that in Croatia may require a private initiative, given that units of local self-government did not do so sufficiently. So we in Croatia have only one crematorium, and needs are much greater than that. For example, Slovenia has 3 crematoriums that are double smaller than Croatia and two are in private initiative, one is a public private partnership one is the private initiative of several undertakers. So this law also defines that it is possible to organize a place to cremate a deceased person but outside the cemetery because we said that the municipal activity is exclusively related to the cemetery or to the place where the burial takes place. What is also asked is, what many people think that this law will not know what excessively liberalizes and that it will lead to an unskilled service, or that people will not have certain preconditions during transport to collect the deceased until the moment he goes to the cemetery we have removed with a solution to fulfil the conditions for carrying out funeral activities that are quite rigorous and which, of course, with registration and confirmation that you are qualified for this and that you have space, that you have an adequate vehicle, etc. says you have to have a solution to meet the minimum technical, sanitary and other conditions of space, which means you can't de facto take over the deceased person and not have an adequate space unless you go directly to the cemetery for the funeral if it happens to be a day, two or three later. So you had a lot of rigorous conditions on that side and I'm convinced that they'll be even tougher than they are at this point for certain persons who perform funeral activities and I told them it's already 48% on the market. So we need this law and that we are not exempt I would say this transport from municipal services because we have as much quality as possible for the families of the deceased and so that we can do the best we can. I have this, of course, overview of certain cities, so we have practice in Croatia where currently some cities and municipalities give concessions, some don't give, some have utility companies that do it exclusively. I have to say that practices are unequal, that you have cities like Rijeka, Pula that have no concession in the area of their city and you have some that don't do these activities at all, so their utility companies don't do it, but funeral homes do it. So this practice shows that it is possible and necessary to define this by law and that it is possible for entrepreneurs, or those who carry out funeral activities, to work on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, to see why the practice in Zagreb or in another big city, would not be identical in Split, for example, in Rijeka or Pula. So that's something we want to even up because people when a person dies want to have the most accessible, the most qualitative service possible, and on the other hand, the market that I'm convinced is going to lead to a drop in certain prices, even though that, of course, it's not crucial for people, but it's not irrelevant and that we try to make it easier for people in view of the moment they're in. Since this is the first one, first reading of the law is going to go of course into one more. Our intensity is that after this debate we will start tomorrow on the basis of suggestions and Parliament's second reading, i.e. on the opinions of the ministries so that by 15.12. we will have a law adopted and to resolve this, this area will be resolved after I have said 15 years of debate. The initiatives already here, some colleagues who have now proposed these laws in Parliament in 2005 and 2006, did not go to the government at the time. But I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't regulate this area, and that in the end we have one quality law of interest, of course, most of our citizens, as well as local self-government units. Thank you very much, here, and I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89876	Thank you. Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89877	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Minister, I have listened carefully to what you have said and seen, and in the report carried out consultation with the interested public of certain observations which have been accepted, but this law is actually transposed by this Directive 123 on services on the internal market. However, I will tell you as the head of a community example in practice. First of all, I don't know, and I don't understand how someone doesn't have a concession in how they do this funeral work unless they have a commercial company? We are a migurative area and very many people live in overseas countries and in Western Europe. Since we are both members of the EU today, I will tell you two examples that have happened to us. So we're at the post office in the municipality and we've got a urn. But we don't know a person, we don't know through that eyewitness, we don't know who it's about. Why should the municipality get a urn, let's say, not some funeral home. On the other hand, it was about Germany, so I called and I told you why you sent it to us. Then they said that local self-government units are taking care of cemeteries by law, so we should give confirmation that the urn can be buried in that grave and that's why they sent us that urn. But we didn't know what to do, we had to organize the funeral ourselves. So perhaps since you were talking about funeral activities under Article 8, you should check it out, I don’t know if it’s necessary to introduce it into the law, but let’s say that you should check it out. We didn't know then at the moment the person was involved but we got urn as a unit of local self-government. Instead of maybe getting that urn a funeral home, not us. Think of it as an example of practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89878	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleagues Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89879	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At first, the club won't support the bill. We can always say that the biggest problem of the law is bad opening arguments and then look at the introductory explanation for this law. It is claimed that the Law on the Communist Economy simply, hundreds of funeral companies that otherwise carried out their activities, were suddenly out of work. That's the first finding. Then the second finding is that somewhere in 2002, the Parliament brought a certain interpretation that transporting the deceased could also be a commercial activity. This is indicated in the document. It is then established that it is simply necessary to resolve transport, that it is not a municipal activity and that you can see that the law is merely turning towards transport and transporting the deceased. And, of course, it is then called on the directive that we are contrary to the European Directive and, of course, the worst conclusions are in the opening statement that funeral activities are... units of local self-government organised against the principles of fair competition and free market. At the same time, entrepreneurs operating in these markets invest their own resources, have unfair competition in the municipal society and do not read any further. I suppose that was also the opening argument, that some of our committees unanimously agreed to the bill because it says so in the introduction. Well, I'm sorry, the situation and the fact is something different. So let me make the arguments, they're not mine. Associations of Cities, it is one association of those who are responsible for this activity, have sent the Minister a proposal to withdraw the law, that the law is not written in quality. They put out their arguments in that document, but as you can see in this opening explanation, we don't have any arguments. So back to what's basic, what's a public service or community service in funeral services? Only three things, the management of cemeteries, crematories and the transport of the deceased. It's just public service, nothing else is communal activity. Everything else is a market activity. Everything else. So here we have established the interest of Croatian regulations, the public interest that we care about how to manage cemeteries, how to manage crematories, and how to manage the process of transporting the deceased, and we have assessed that this is a communal activity and we have not banned privates from working. We said that if transport doesn't have a local self-government utility, it can call a concession and give it to a private. So you have a mass of units of local self-government that have been called and the privates have received concessions and transportation of the deceased. So we have an accurate division of what it is to be a communal activity, and that is why we have laid down all the legislation. Now for us, the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship, what does it suggest? That transport is no longer a public interest. Now let's see these arguments that bring up associations of cities, why that's not good. So let's start with hundreds of entrepreneurs passing the Law on the Communist Economy losing their jobs. Well, then let's get back to the facts. Where were the dead? In the garages, in the kitchens, in the pantry. Yeah, that's where we are. We were losing track of who died when he died, how he died. Yeah, it was a total mess. The car was in a car that was decomposed, all of it. Yes, that was all before I passed the Law on the Communist Economy. After that, once again, another condition. So let's say today about this condition, how do local self-government units do it? Can you read that it may have been irresponsible to the deceased, to the family of the deceased? That we have abnormal rates in cemeteries, on services? Those who are a communal activity. No, you won't read that. You will find that the inspections find a few deceased in the garage, you will find this, in addition to very clear data that it is not an activity, that it is a prohibited activity if you do not have concessions. And now there's a conflict. The Law on the municipal economy does not resolve the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship. And the question remains whether we're going to keep the communal activity for those activities we said. This is the opposite of the directive. That's not true. In this year, the Slovenian Parliament reaffirmed that the municipal activity is the transport of the deceased and that it is not contrary to the EU directive. Hungary, which did the opposite a few years ago, has allowed it to be a market activity, is now returning to being a market activity because it cannot control what is happening. And now we're coming to the basics, so gentlemen, with us transport is more or less a concession activity. Car taxi service, what can anyone do for a taxi service? No, he has to have a concession. What does that mean? We live who know how to defend ourselves, we can protect ourselves from fraud, we're protected, it's got to be public activity, it's got to be a concession, it's decided by local self-government, and for the deceased it doesn't, it doesn't. Let them treat him any way they want, he doesn't know what he's suffering anyway, and we're taking advantage of a family that's in mourning, and he doesn't even know what's going on, so we don't want to protect it. Transportation in... transport, sea transport, it's all a concentrated activity, but on funeral transport we don't want a concession. Do you understand that? I don't understand that. Why don't I understand that, because when I go to the cemetery, look at millions and millions in monuments, it means that families care very much about dignity in such activities. This document does not say that units of local self-government do this unworthyly. That's not true. We've brought a series of accompanying acts and documents, a series of followers and eyewitnesses and everything else to simply show that we're a country that cares about what happens to the family and the deceased, and now we want to do it again... You know, there was an interpretation that it could be a market activity, but the initiative that this law was being broken into by all parliamentary committees in the 6th session refused that activity and assessed that it must not be allowed to be a commercial activity. Is if living people are transported on the basis of public authority, a concession which is a problem that we who keep until the funeral, who we hold to the deceased, are very much investing in money in the cemetery and we don't want it all. Even the Employers’ Association, which was dissatisfied with these solutions, addressed the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And imagine the Constitutional Court rejected them and said that the Republic of Croatia has the right to establish that this is a public interest, a communal activity and that it must then be followed by the Law on municipal activity, concessions, competition concessions and everything. Therefore, if we really estimate that the situation in cities and municipalities is tragic, that they are irresponsible in all of this ok. Then please change this argument here so we can really see if it is, but you'll see it isn't. That the units of local self-government are investing in the cemetery, in the morgues, in the refrigerators and that it really cares that what the citizens of Croatia feel for me would say the act of burying that simple units of local self-government prove themselves responsible. Therefore, we are not going to push one or two irresponsible units who have not opened a tender for them now into private activity in market activity. So we think at the club we shouldn't be in that part... then we're wondering if we need the law. All right, all right. Why? It is very clear that the bodies responsible for competitive means the Constitutional Court does not dispute that we have the right to establish this. And the commission, the Competition Protection Agency, clearly wrote that we very much need to separate the market activity from the communal and said the market activity were, textile furniture, plastics, equipment, stage, flowers, families and obituaries, gravestones, printing, memory, it, washing, makeup it is all commercial activity it is not a communal activity and that is why we have unequivocal competition here. We shouldn't change that. If the minister wants to regulate that part even though I don't see it, it doesn't need it, there's no specific rule here is it important for us to have a refrigerator, that we have responsible carriers that have cars and all that they meet, and the municipal activities have strictly prescribed it, I would say concession competitions have strictly regulated it. If you want to regulate it is not a problem, but if we return the story again and it is evident that we have a lot of those who want to work without any control on the transport of the deceased, what they did before it came to the Law on Community Activity. But imagine the Association of Cities clearly points out, offers arguments, and the minister won't communicate that part and doesn't realize how serious it is to insert market elements in the transport of the deceased is where the funeral begins, that's where the greatest responsibility begins not to cheat on the family who is bereaved and not under dignity do not deal with that activity. I'm not going to say that in the first concept it was that at the cemetery privates could dig. Now imagine, the city has to edit, invest, this, what, anyone can dig, that and that was thinking, total liberalisation. That is why I believe that this law is not ready in the first reading and that it should be returned and that the minister should communicate it with the Minister of Economy who is responsible for municipal activity but also with the Association of Cities and try to see where their weaknesses exist at all. Do I have to say I don't notice them in the media or in the newspapers or in the reports of this Croatian Parliament? And if that's the case, then you'll see that you'll be asked whether it's necessary to open a debate on this law. I wouldn't stay on articles at all, because I don't think it's necessary to go in here if we're going back to whether we can understand from this argument that it's necessary to pass this law and whether the transfer of the deceased is a market activity or a communal one again. And that's why you shouldn't have this law in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89880	We're moving on to replicas. The First Honored Golden Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89881	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Linic, when you referred to the Association of Cities, is true they have delivered one material, but I am asking one specific question, and you answer me. Why didn't the City Association get involved in a public debate? Why didn't the law come out on the basis of the arguments and then come up with a solution? Why did the City Association now refer this material before the law was passed? And I'll tell you something else when it comes to concessions. We had cases where certain units of local self-government gave a concession but then after the concessions expired, concessions were lifted and service prices increased three times higher than concessionaires did. Here's the second part of the paradox we're talking about how we're dealing with it because I'm part of the law on the market is going to show who's cheaper and who's not cheaper. On the other hand, it is not disputed when it comes to the management of the cemetery, it is within the authority of local self-government and should be taken into account, for this it receives a certain fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89882	The replica matches Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89883	I have prepared for this debate, I have very clear views of the association of cities written since 6 November that have been sent. I stick to what it is. Why are they or aren't in the debates I don't care, I have their arguments. But we're going to that basic thing, I'm sorry, I'm gonna drive the deceased back to Finland in the '60s, and without a roof, I'm gonna be the cheapest, I'm gonna be the cheapest. So do you know what market activity is? The story of it being prescribed by law, so what's the difference then from communal activity? How from the market economy will the minister now prescribe that I must not drive in Finland but in Mercedes. Will the minister prescribe it? Is that a market? Well, it's not my market people, it's not market freedom if the minister says what kind of cars I drive in. Or vice versa if I'm gonna keep him in the garage when he dies and I'm gonna take him to the family and I'm gonna put him in the garage. As is happening today, is someone doing illegal and unauthorized work. And they find them inspecting it. Well, it's not an activity we can allow. It's not. And that's why you're talking about that it has to be public tenders, they have to be... I will not say that there are no such irresponsible units of local self-government where someone abuses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So listen I expect that the elections will lose power because most units of local self-government are responsible for this job and there are no, communal activities that you have where they own their own company are not the most expensive. No, they run their own policy responsible. And you know what community society is, that society also accounts for its city councils, municipal councils about its balances. And that's why I think we should analyze how it's done but not on the basis of certain cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89884	Second replica, respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89885	Unlike Mr. Tušak, I fully agree with what you said and this law is totally unnecessary. And when the town association was mentioned, it involved exactly what you were talking about and again the reasoning of the law itself when it was mentioned in 2002, 2004, we who were on the ground were operating on what had happened since before 2002, there was a total mess in all the cemetery, in all the local self-government units, especially the smaller ones. It was only in 2004, that some order was introduced, and all these years, the order was gradually running and the situation was getting better. But this argument in the part where you mention that this directive is a municipal activity is a constitutional category and in this section is prescribed in Article 129. The Constitution. A Directive in Article 2(2) provides for the activities to which it applies. And this is incorrect for you to refer to this directive because it does not speak of it at all. For it is precisely in this Article 2 that it does not apply to services of general interest and this is exactly that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89886	Slavko Linic gossips on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89887	... So that's what public activity is. [[Specially enabled.]] The Directive does not touch and does not seek competitiveness and market business or market competition where we have public authority. Now I'm asking, my people at the taxi service where we drive live people, so I'm not gonna be so easily taken by a cab driver... There we have public activity, the jurisdiction of local self-government and in the competition you can get the right to deal with taxi service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where we transport the deceased where there's a special situation, it's a dead person and the family least thinks about what happens around her especially if she's a younger person. And now we think no, there doesn't need public authority, it can do to you whoever it wants, whoever it is. We're looking for a competition, and give me the elements of what I'm looking for, if the services of cities and municipalities in transport or all of these concessionaries are too big, if they're too big, then we can say it's necessary. Why? Because they're unreasonable cities and municipalities, we don't have that in the introduction. In fact, we know that's not true, that they're not uncompetitive prices. That at funerals and especially the transport of the deceased, they don't skin, they don't skin. And that we have more and more order. And that is why we believe that this should continue to remain public interest and responsibility. The responsibility of the state through units of local self-government to keep this activity as we wish for the dignity of the deceased or family.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89888	The next replica respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will tell my colleague Linić, in fact, to mention another problem that arises in transport, which was pointed out by the director of the municipal cemetery company in Dubrovnik. In fact, when you spoke, you suggested who else we should be communicating with, with the Department of Civil Engineering, I'd actually say here that maybe we should get in touch with the Ministry of Health. And why do I say that? Because in transporting the deceased very often because, in fact, if the transport is actually carried out in a tin section, in a tin cartridge and over should be a wooden cartridge, so should the regulation, so prescribe all hygienic conditions need such regulations. But it's actually happening to be transported only in a wooden crate, let's call it a crate. If it's called inspection then the inspection isn't responding. However, when you look at the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, the rules on the conditions and manner of transfer of funerals, the excavation of dead persons is precisely regulated. But how does it happen in practice that that's how you don't actually respect the rule, the inspection doesn't react, how do you regulate it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89890	Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89891	I agree with you colleagues and, in fact, the Law on Community Activities states that it is the responsibility of the units of local self-government. So we have responsible factors that should take the concession law that they gave to anyone who does not carry out the transport and with health care I would say the regulations. And we have, we know who the culprits are, units of local self-government and inspections should turn to them, take away their powers, punish them, and we have a solution. And imagine now if we let it into the competition, tell me... it's market surveillance. So here we have the responsibility of power, the authority is responsible, so we're having a hard time controlling, in extreme cases, but mostly not. And if we let that go to the market competition, it's out of control, it's out of responsibility. That's why we say it's a public interest in keeping the transport under control by the government, the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89892	Replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89893	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Linić, I listened very closely to you and actually as you spoke, I looked at a little bit of this Directive 123, that service and internal market and really, the transport was treated as a public interest, and you were saying that in the Law on the Communist Economy in fact, and we were applying that to the units of local administration and self-government. And if you look at it, and it would be strange for me if certain units of local self-government hadn't done it, the ones who put out the concession, that we're actually very much worried about the cemetery because the cemetery law is here, but we also care about the facilities next to the cemetery, that is, by the morgue, and we're investing a lot of money because we care, not only about the voters, but also about our citizens having a good service. However, many things have happened in these 2-3 years without thorough analysis and verification. One of these is actually this bill and it might be best if he retreats from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89894	Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89895	In my debate, I didn't want to defend all units of local self-government because there are obviously deviating phenomena and there are bad examples. Therefore, what we need to see, which in the Law on Community Activity, strengthens in that responsibility whether criminal, criminal, simply get as much responsibility as possible because we care about the real public interest being that funerals have the dignity that Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia attach to. And that's why I consider there... all this other stuff that's not communal activity is purely commercial. So what difference does it make if the flower costs kuna, 5 kuna, 50 kuna, if the bouquet will be like this, like this, whether the suit will be paper or goods. That's what every family that answers is about, depending on their financial opportunities to make an effort. But medically... what kind of covers it must be, what crates must be, how transport must be carried out, that's all that can't be left to the market and that's why I think there's an irregularity. Irregularities need to be strengthened through the Law on Community Activity, especially in this section, in order to sanction those responsible, and we have them. They are units of local self-government and it is far easier to prescribe criminal provisions than if you go to a market where many of them will now appear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89896	The last replica, the esteemed Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89897	Thank you, Vice President. Through your discussion, you touched the transport of the deceased the most, but on one possible example, I would say absolute with the existing law. At my place in Shares, the undertaker, his parents die in a hospital in Rijeka. He has the possibility of transporting undertakers and wants a funeral in Dalmatia. Because he does not have a concession for the transport of the deceased in the region of Dalmatia, he cannot translate his parents into a funeral in Dalmatia, but he must do so by some of his other counterparts who have a concession. I think it's the absolute absurdity of the existing law, and that's why I think this bill is correct and correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89898	Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89899	Then we'll go back to something. I say it's not slow and it's settled, it's settled, but you claim it isn't, and I say it's not a problem. Then let the funeral services rise to the county level so if we're a little bit of a county then the state that we're going to centralize everything, I don't mind. But you and I can never agree on one thing and we won't agree, I believe that transporting the deceased is a public interest and that we cannot leave it to the market. In reverse, you're trying to say that because there are some misunderstandings or an unskilled solution somewhere, it needs to be left to the market, it should be left to the market. That's where you and I will never agree, ever. I'm usually a man who always wants public companies privatized, that we don't have a monopoly of the state. I want public and market competition but you will allow me to know something about the citizens of Croatia and their feelings and what they do about their dead and thinking about them. And if it's not the public interest of the state that we have to control this citizens' thinking, we have to be careful, we have to limit the market. You don't. I think so. We'll never get along. So, you'd like whoever wants to, I'm telling you again, to drive to Finland with an open roof cut off because it's old and it's... And that's where it can be transported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89900	Minister Gordan Maras called for the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89901	Thank you very much. I honestly didn't hope for such a heated debate, given that we had an almost destructive position on the boards. Yes, there were no HDZ agents, though. They were at one presentation yesterday, so they did a little bit of repression. But anyway, no. ... All right, all right. [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. So, I just wanted to say, I was really surprised by the debate for a number of reasons. [[/Intruder Stazic: Good, good. Peace, peace.]] The first thing that is not true and not good colleague Linic spoke of fica all the time because it is not possible. So he doesn't have a '66 fiche. But you can't drive with it either under this law, or by the majority of decisions made by local self-government units. So please don't mention it again because it's not possible. On the other hand, no one can convince me that two items in the Law on Community Services are more and more secure for the public than the law this House can adopt. So, there are two items that mention the transport of the deceased in the Law on Community Services, and that is more and safer for Croatian citizens than the law, no one can convince me. The same thing that can't convince me that Zagreb is not a good case for market analysis. So, if we have 92% of the transportation in Zagreb by the undertakers, you will not tell me that Zagreb has the worst standards and does not care about its citizens, and that the citizens are damaged to drive them in drawers. So if 92% of Zagreb is well, so I don't see why it shouldn't be 92% in Rijeka too. I think it's an argument enough to be safe and calm that nothing will happen to the users of these services and families and that the undertakers will be able to do the job with dignity. As you can't tell me that the decision of the city of Zagreb is, here I have it before me. So it's an example of how you define what someone has to have to do to carry out that activity. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: So, just that he's registered, that he owns a vehicle, that he's financially capable of doing it, that he's organized duty duty for 24 hours and that he's not being punished for criminal acts laid down by regulations. So, we have extended these three, four provisions to at least a dozen that are much greater security for both the citizens of Zagreb and Rijeka and all of Croatia that this job will be more correct. Well then you won't tell me that the city of Zagreb where things are now functioning 92% on the market with such minimum demands in deciding that it is a threat to the people of Rijeka. I don't think so. You have empirical proof. Here's Zagreb, so ask people how it works here. So there is no fear or fear that anything about the users themselves will happen wrong here, but we simply want to level the practice and make people available. And what Mr. Delinquent said. Yeah, I know an example of a gentleman from Chakovec who also has a funeral home and he told me that. In Varazdin, he took over a family member, took him to Split. There he won't be accepted in the cemetery because he has no concession for either Split or Varazdin. Well, that's humiliating. That's what we can't allow and that's why we're doing this law, that if we prevent one of these and one of these cases with this law, I'm satisfied without jeopardizing the quality of the service that you see operating normally in Zagreb with 92 to 8. So not 100% of local self-government units like in Rijeka but 92% of the private sector, 8% of the municipal service. On the other hand, it is not what you read from the Parliament exactly that it can be considered, but it is very clear that the Parliament has given a credible interpretation. No one's touched that for 12 years, I don't know why. But here's the thing: I can't consider myself to be communal services if they meet the requirements and, of course, without a concession, I can do it. So we just have to make a market and regulate it so that citizens have the security that it's going to be quality. As far as HGK's social partners are concerned, you know that many times I have the resistance they have fully agreed on, they support this law. HUP also, a member of the Association of Cities was a member of the Working Group disagreed, but we cannot insist on everything being unanimous. And on the one hand, we had a public debate, so these proposals in that public debate were not expressed by the association of cities, although I don't consider it important. Enough to send them out like this. But we think that this law guarantees quality, that there will be no problem. We have empirical proof of Zagreb, we have stricter criteria than they are in Zagreb now and there is no concern that there will be a service for our citizens not as a fico, but it will be as it should be for the deceased. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89902	Replica, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89903	I, first of all, would have to consider whether he knows what municipal activity is. So the city of Zagreb is responsible for the transport of passengers not 90 companies. They are not responsible, they are responsible for his concession contract, and we in the state, in the city of Zagreb have only one. Whether the city will have its own municipal company or call a tender and give more trade, so it's not market, it's not a competition. So I'd ask you to know the basic elements of the economy. Therefore, on the basis of the legal authority of public interest, the city called and gave 90 concessions. It can do it whoever it wants, whoever it wants. If someone thinks it's better to organize with their company, let them organize. Well, you can't get involved in city jurisdiction. But who's responsible? The city of Zagreb. What do you say now? No one will be responsible. No, we'll give the law, it's a market category. And you'll make some rules. Excuse me, are we going to talk about what market categories are, we want to talk about it? And say it'll be more dignified than it is now? No, no. Therefore, if you really think that some cities are not working properly, help the competent minister to strengthen the Law on municipal activity, but do not lower the communal activity and public interest of transporting the deceased. Because then I ask you something else, explain to me why the taxi service must be a communal activity? Why can't I take a cab? Why? Why does this have to be a communal activity? That's your jurisdiction. Because I don't care about the taxi service, but I don't care about the deceased. Now you take care of the deceased, you care, you think it should be marketable, explain to me why taxi transport is not a free game? Put an end to this, bring the law and abolish the communal ex post, communal activity in that part. And then I'll be able to understand you. This is how I think it isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89904	Time. Minister Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89905	Just like you're asking me, I can ask you, is public interest in transportation in education? Is that a public interest? And who's transporting in education and who are we talking to? With the state. Very clear, with the state. So it's a public interest and the state is making arrangements for transportation. What's the problem? Nothing. Why would this be a problem? Just like you tell me... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89906	The debate should be conducted according to the Rules of Procedure, so please, let's stick to it. Come on, Ministers, respond to the replica. Guys, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89907	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89908	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89909	Just as you tell me that Rijeka or Rijeka knows better than their citizens, as you say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not take care of the citizens of Rijeka. I'm telling you he'll take care of it. What's the problem? 350 undertakers, so is there a difference between 350 undertakers and 10 thousand taxi drivers in Croatia? Do you see any difference? In the very amount of work, procedures, specificities, etc., tariffs etc. So it is very difficult to offer taxi service, one taxi driver at the level of all Croatia. You think that's possible? To take a cab, sleep on the back of the bed and offer today in Dubrovnik, tomorrow in Split, the day after tomorrow in Pula? If that's possible, then perhaps this proposal of yours is appropriate. But I don't think it's possible and that's why it's limited to one area. As for the transport of undertakers, it is possible to perform it throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, whether you are from Zagreb, Split or Rijeka. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89910	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Labour Party, the respected Zlatko Tušak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89911	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatian Labourists, right at the beginning, will support this law in the first reading and I will also say why we will support it. We will support him because in 2004, the Law on the Communist Economy was passed where the provision entered into the law that the transport of the deceased was a communal activity that had just been spoken of. And we've kind of turned some of these things around. And the City Association is now primarily due to the retention of a certain monopoly speaking and today there has been a discussion now suddenly at the cemetery there is going to be a riot. Well no, no one will ban this law and keep keeping an eye on it, no one will ban it when it comes to the management of municipal companies' cemetery owned by local self-government units. For this municipal companies, local self-government units are getting money, through every grave site that has its own price, through the maintenance of a cemetery that is paid through compensation whether semi-annual, annual or whatever it is. These are significant means, and clearly, based on such funds, we need to have cemeterys and cemeteries, and we have very beautiful cemeteries like cemeteries in Varazdin, etc. Of course it's also the obligation of local self-government to take care of cemeteries. But the question of transportation, here the harder are being put in some way in the fit we'll drive. Well, it can't be done. You can't drive a dead man in a drawer. After all, when we talk about both municipal enterprises and cemeteries, there's never any exception and there's never any guarantee that there's going to be a certain excess. We witnessed that there was a devastation of the cemetery, that there was a robbery of gold from those graves, we heard that there were murders and the burial of those who worked in those companies in those graves. So, on certain individual cases, we can't base a certain law. And this law we think is good, that it opens up a certain market economy. Why? Because it's working, and that's what the minister said somewhere around 350 now that the entities are dealing with the activity. 350 of them I think that somewhere around 140 is registered as companies, the rest of 210 are craftsmen. Somewhere in some numbers, it's said that around 900 are employed in that activity. And what kind of guarantee they have if they have today's concession, their concession is taken from them tomorrow. Do they have a certain guarantee in investing certain money and developing and their activities and in some way creating better conditions? I don't think there's any obstacle here. No one will ban utility companies from still transporting these deceased, but why not be in exactly the same position as these craftsmen who need it this way, because we had 10 years ago this law that was passed and the struggle of the undertakers' association is 10 years ago that they in some way ensure their future and security through certain legal solutions. It was also in 2009 that a certain law was very similar, it did not pass, but the question is, what is a certain problem that this law does not regulate whether their future and their security and their dealings can only give them a certain law or have no perspective and will close their activity. And what I was talking about are cases, and we have cases, these are not exceptions, but that's the behavior of the local self-government unit, and the association of cities represents and those units that cancelled these concessions, which led them to an unspeakable situation even though they as concessionaries had a three-time cheaper price and there were no objections. But that's where the model came in, that can be gold coke, we'll raise the price, we'll take over, we'll ban the concessionaries, and we'll make a lot of money and create a certain monopoly. I think that when it comes to transporting the deceased and the very ceremony of sending the deceased that it shouldn't be any problem and clearly there are some other laws that have been spoken of, which is a matter of health that needs to be regulated by how this deceased is transported, in what situation he must be and there are some other laws that regulate it. No, and it's not the matter of this law. The matter of this law is only to enable undertakers to carry out their activities and to have certain security. The truth is, we need to start looking at this area a little bit differently. The other day I was reading in a newspaper in Tokyo, Japan, and that's some future, there's a memorial center in downtown Tokyo with urn that's digitized, a certain family comes to a computer-card urn comes and a certain ceremony is performed. Why wouldn't this be possible today and in Croatia, why should we slave with certain stereotypes that it must be all classical, let's look a little into the future. Finally, you mentioned Slovenia and Hungary here, but you did not mention other countries. Should we also be based on Slovenia and Hungary or must we look at small and other countries in the EU, and we must look beyond the EU when it comes to this area. And that's why my appeal is within it, and I'm glad today the minister said he was going to try to get this law into another reading as soon as possible, because I think the undertaker's Association has been working very hard to build this law. It is clear that in a public debate all interested public could give their reasoned facts and to reasoned facts someone should and answer whether these arguments stand or do not stand and that we could come to a certain law but primarily in the interest of those who carry out those activities that they ensure safety or simply such security will not be, and then it will happen that someone will benefit, etc. There have been various cases, clearly we have local units where there is no concession, we have cities, I am from Bjelovar where there are three concessions and a municipal enterprise and there is no problem for that. But I don't think there's gonna be any problem with the adoption of these laws, because if they can work there, I don't think there'll be any obstacles to their future. The only thing that undertakers will have greater security, the only thing that might be possible today and credited to them, and to train them, to offer a better service and to make it clear that when it comes to the market, everyone will choose what kind of service they want and the legal solutions are that the deceased must not be islanded, that his pitet may not be allowed to be destroyed in some way. And for that there are certain criminal provisions that I must all adhere to, and therefore here and finally Croatian Labourists will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89912	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89913	Obviously, we don't understand what the market is. You said well there are 350 of them now, so many employees, you have your incomes and you care about your future. With this law there will be 35,000, 35,000, people are jobless, they don't know what, they'll start doing this kind of activity, 35 grand. You want me to tell you about the Croatian side of the market economy not paying, blocking, not paying our commitments we're going to talk about? So when it happens that these 35,000 don't start paying for municipal activities, the grave, don't pay for it, don't pay for it, that's the market economy, that's the difference between public interest and communal activity. You're introducing complete uncertainty of the market economy into one activity that shouldn't be. And what I'm saying, I'm experiencing the citizens of Croatia differently. You know when I pass it through the cemetery so I see billions in monuments, in huge flowers and everything else I don't see your Japan, I don't see it because I see it looking at it as Croatian citizens, they don't look like Japanese, they don't look at it. They don't even look like Americans. Well, if that's the case, this country has to evaluate it. Therefore, why public interest, why municipal activity? That there is not too much competition because competition is not a small price, but a worse service, non-payment and a huge, huge problem of responsibility to the funeral. That's what I see in market law, it's... And whether cities will call one or a hundred concessions, it remains in cities and they are seen for their success. That's why we have 350, but 35,000 would hate to see them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89914	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89915	Thank you. So, market economy, you're a colleague of Linic's here, you said well. There'll be a lot more of them. Yes, there will be those on the market who will be able, who will be able to perform that part. Is it going to be 35 grand, if, when we talk about this, about this market, and it's sad to talk about this market, the minister here said, there are 50 grand dead every year, which means 140 of them die every day. Can 35,000 now work in this activity? I don't think so, and then let's not get into it with some of these flat-rate numbers because they don't hold water. The market will regulate this, clearly and in so many ways, those most competitive, which are the best quality. The market is like that. And let the profession do that part of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89916	Second replica, Tomislav Klaric. ... On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Tomislav Klaric will speak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89917	Dear President, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. On the trail of all this that Mr. Linic has been saying, what does the Association of Cities say, what are we all talking about from the field that we've been operating on these problems that are now being talked about here in law, I'm asking myself, and I'm asking you the Ministers' question, what is the law when we have a law that prescribes exactly this? The Law on the Communal Economy has made it clear that what I read the other day, a statement by some undertaker, I think he's from Sibenik, who said he's been struggling for 20 years to become a dead man's market goods. I mean, what are we talking about? You say you're fighting for the market, you can pass another law like this. Let's have some green areas per unit of local self-government go to the free market, so I guess they'll be cutting down parks and I don't know who, whoever they want. So the units of local self-government and today according to the existing Law on the Communist Economy, this was nice for you both Mr. Linić and... here in replication, have the possibility of and awarding concessions through a public tender, offer price and they vary from units of local self-government, from one to the other, each in their own way, but it can be regulated and can be completed in the Law on the Communist Economy, not by adopting some new law that regulates only the transport of the deceased. Where's everything else about the cemetery? Who's designing? Who solves property legal relations in those cemetery? Who's building them? After all, he's starting this community society where he hires some kind of people who get paid and we don't drive some kind of, I don't know what kind of guy or gets on black or we don't now say everything that's been done, not in a guy... but we have... cases like that. By 2002, we watched it, and he was digging up whoever he found, and he was black-paid. Only with the laws of 2002/2004. This began to be systematically regulated and all units of local self-government began to function in this way. In the meantime, they founded these utility companies. What do you think, by this law... and those vehicles they bought, that driver they hired, who gets paid by some kind of income from a funeral service, what do we do with him? He's going to market, how he's going to give a ticket when someone dies and he's going to transport it. I mean, what you said that the committees accepted, the practice unfortunately on the committees is such that when it says that something of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council have recommended that it has given some directive, that it is immediately considered, that it must be accepted, and that it is not going to be interpreted further, to think about it. You suggest that the Law on the municipal economy is contrary to the directive, i.e. you write, Directive 2006, 127 E of the European Parliament..., the services on the internal market are prescribed that the transport of the deceased of the unit of local self-government is entrusted to companies whose founding companies, i.e. for the transport of the deceased unit of local self-government, can grant concessions. Is that so, is that it now? It is. Why the new law? It is stated that the work of maintaining the cemetery and the crematorium in the transport of the deceased of municipal activities carried out in accordance with the Law on the municipal economy is being carried out as a public service. Is that how it is now? It is. Is the current Law on the Communist Economy presupposing this? Yeah. Then why the new law? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic, as an activity carried out by local self-government units. Unfortunately, in this House, it's been reported that local self-government units are doing this, that some local sheriffs are out there, that there's a wild west. I don't know if there's any institutions in the state of any of your ministries, agencies or if I don't know what's more controlling than those local self-government units. Since the state audits, from the Ministry of Finance's inspections, I don't know who everyone doesn't anymore, and even those anonymous reports they jump on and jump on,... you don't know who or what. And every decision we make right now in this hell of a time, we question it a hundred times, and that's what's holding us back in the realisation of anything. But it says here that since municipal activities are carried out as a public service, they are exempt from the application of that directive. Then why the new law? And you're referring to this directive and it's based on it that you're doing this law or is it setting someone up or I don't see any other reason? If there is a possibility now, you have said the very example of the city of Zagreb, it is estimated that they can carry out these ten percent alone through their communal company, that those ninety cannot. They called the competition, elected 90% in the competition. Is that legal? It is. Is the current law prescribing that? Yeah. Then why the new law? I think it would be wise for you to pull this off, because the Law on the Community Economy is clear. Costs, revenues must be spent on purpose. A large number of local self-government units, unfortunately, in the State Audit findings, have that observation of non-intentional spending. This has tried to correct the introduction of real estate taxes in order to enable investment in some other segments such as kindergartens or I don't know what else. With this law, you give someone else the opportunity to make some kind of income without giving a damn about anything else. I can tell you from the experiences that we have that even this transport of the deceased makes less money for that of yours on the free market as you say that the biggest profit in equipment is then offered by the one who offers normal garland and obituaries and coffins and equipment, shoes and all the additional equipment that goes along with it. Because he came, the family was at that moment the most sensitive, the most vulnerable, she at that moment agreed to everything, we all know it from our own experience. And you can't tell me that we in local self-government units that we've been chosen there from our citizens have no sense of how we're going to charge them I don't know what kind of prices for our utility services. Well, in most cases, we're considering that our utility companies are somewhere at zero or slightly above zero, to cover all their costs, and trust me that these utility companies are more expensive than some concessionaires, especially in green areas, if each of us has protective clothes, so there's that passed the labor protection exam, so there's more pay extras all in accordance with the law, and you can't just fire him for what the case isn't with the concessionaries we had until then. So, you have the Law on the municipal economy, he's not in your portfolio, sit down with Mrs. Taritash and the government, and you add up with certain things that law we've been telling you about here, and I think it'll be acceptable. This is how one law only for a small segment of business that is being separated from the Law on the Communist Economy is simply funny or is forced by someone who doesn't even know the problems on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89918	We have two replicas. First dear Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89919	Thank you, Vice President. Here is colleague Klaric, so you said well everything that the draft law is both superficial and confusing and unnecessary and ultimately that it is harmful for both recipients of services and for local self-government units to interpret ourselves here quite differently. And such a law will cause for sure the inability to register the deceased in a legally prescribed manner, the problem will arise and there will be no space for adequate acceptance, which is also spoken of by fellow Linic because chapels, morgues, are owned by a unit of local self-government. Which would mean, as units of local self-government, we keep the cemetery, we take care of the morgue, we pay for electricity, we pay for the refrigerators, we invest in it, and then we give it to someone else to use it for free. I don't think anybody's that stupid. And there will be fights for the deceased, at the end of the day in front of hospitals, pathology and homes for the old and powerless, there will be paid to report her here now, so come, wait, etc. There's gonna be a lot of problems. But my colleague Klaric, I don't know why you're upset because Minister Maras is the minister of crafts and entrepreneurship. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He found a model of how to increase the number of crafts and entrepreneurs because I see the only logic in that law in that motivation. And you said well that local self-government units are trying to take care of cemeteries through their utility companies, and if this continues well, you suggested that we put everything on the market, and then let the privates eventually worry about the maintenance of the cemetery, about..., in the DPU projects on everything and let such a burden be removed from the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89920	The reply to the replica is Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89921	Why the local self-government unit? Let's just like you told them to lift them and let them all go to the market so they don't need us. But there I am Mr. Dance seems to have mentioned myself so I will use this replica, when I spoke of this law as unnecessary, I also spoke of the possibility of changing or supplementing the Law on the Communal Economy. This problem of yours is easy to resolve because in law it is a provision that the transport of the deceased outside the borders of the unit of local self-government, I am talking about the Law on the Communist Economy, can be carried out by a legal and natural person registered for that activity if he has a contract with a local self-government unit. Let's change that provision, let's give this Delnice guy a chance that if there's a death case he can put on this in Sibenik to make that transport, but that's all in the area of the Law on the Communist Economy. Not some kind of law we're going to pass to create some kind of free market. Just as I said and you and I, let the green surfaces hair anyone, let the cemetery maintain anyone and the city and anyone, we will not charge the grave fee and we have a free market. Why, then, the Law on the Communist Economy, why this constitutional provision and why this directive?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89922	Another replica respected by Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89923	Thank you, Vice President. So here's a respected colleague, Klaric, who said that local self-government units have had the opportunity to give concessions so far. I am deeply saddened that in this bill, the minister, or the people who did it, did not bother to make a list of how much the unit of local self-government really gave concessions, at which prices these concessions were given and to see how many entrepreneurs paid under these concessions. The other thing that surprises me, you say utility companies are going to shut down, so they're not carrying out utility companies alone, and it's not their only activity around the deceased. At least I think they're working, or we all know they're doing a lot of things. So I don't see any reason why she'd shut herself down. And I'm very surprised that as one mayor you suspect entrepreneurs, what you said today at the expense of entrepreneurs and their dishonesty all what you said from working on black, etc., because your unit of local self-government lives very much by these entrepreneurs. You were talking about it being a heartless law, I wonder if it's silent or insolent. For my late dad, in four hours at the funeral center, I paid 520 kuna to a utility company, and that funeral center was also built by my dad and all of us who paid that communal fee to local self-government units. So no one gets anything from local self-government units for free. And let's not talk about getting something free and now we're gonna have to pay for something. Entrepreneurs should make an effort, be competitive on the market, and not that the monopoly should have utility companies that work and operate in the way they operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89924	The reply to the replica is Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89925	I'm sorry that you understood me so much. I didn't say absolutely anything against entrepreneurs, I said cases of life we had. As far as payment is concerned, any transport of a public undertaking or the transport of a private person will always be paid. But the one who got the concession didn't get it because some mayor remembered here's your concession but the contest was called. The price offered by someone in the competition that was most favourable to the local self-government unit accepted it. Now that you mention me as a case of why we decided to trust our utility company now we're going to trust this because I had two companies that came from one because the husband and wife split up, so by competing in competitions... 16 kuna came to get just the job of transporting the deceased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because basically the biggest market believe me is not transportation and my transport is not at all controversial, let them perform and carriers if they meet all the conditions but there are... the market that is being added to this, and that is all the other costs which are unfortunately related to funeral services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that part, I'm telling you how it's done. ... And it's all paid. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But what units of local self-government get from the grave fees they pay someone with those fees. And if anyone else, I'm not saying they're gonna shut down the entire company but one part of that company, so that driver doesn't need to be driving any privates anymore and he gets paid in the utility company and everyone else. I don't think we understand each other, but all the things we're talking about and this law is already in the Law on the Communist Economy. And if it's something controversial and your 520 and I don't know how many kunas you've paid, let it be regulated by the law that's in charge of it not some new one. Because then these laws can be written by hundreds, so we can define everything by some law, and then what do we do? We don't need local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89926	Minister Maras called again for his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89927	Thank you very much. I have to admit, I'm surprised at my colleagues from HDZ because as their club representative performed, it's like they want everything back under the state's lap. He says we're gonna cut grass with a public firm, we're gonna work... No, it's not, somewhere it's not, somewhere it's not, it's in Zagreb, for example, and that's why prices are slightly higher. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the river, for example, it's not, you have private companies that work. So I would expect from a party that declares some market values such as HDZ not to advocate a return to old positions. But good. What the law says we don't need the law, we have the law. We don't have the law. We have two items in one law that speaks of municipal activities, two paragraphs. So this is the law. I showed you how this is defined in Zagreb with 3 sub-items and here we offer much stricter quality control. ... Wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since it is not Croatia Zagreb, of course it is not Croatia Zagreb, so I will tell you that most small towns below 30,000 in its municipal company do not have a vehicle. What do we do with them? ... There's a concessionaire, most often as you do, probably not with you, also a city vehicle but with a river communal in a lot of, sure [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Private, but certainly and very large and Rijeka utility. [[Intruder: Private.]] I'm sorry we didn't deliver the exact data but here we have the data that we've received since the source of course isn't all covered, we didn't want to give a partial but we have, for example, for any major city. Split, where 60% of the 2000 funerals are performed by the utility, 40% of entrepreneurs. Or other bigger cities. So our biggest argument is that it is working now and that with further liberalisation of the market, citizens will lose nothing. And no one's stopping the communals from continuing their activities. And as counterpart Linic said, citizens take care of the situation for their family members, the deceased, and certainly no one will allow them to drive to Finland. So let's not underestimate our fellow citizens. They will make sure that their family member has a decent funeral. And on that side, even these professional exams, cars, quality, maybe you shouldn't even be in law because our citizens will take care of it, our fellow citizens take care of it. Who would give his family member a ride to the cemetery? I believe no one. So on the other hand, what we're norming here is not enough, but I was afraid you'd say it's too much, that I was afraid, that you'd say why now expert exams, it burdens entrepreneurs, you'd have to pay for something, that you'd say why so high standards and health conditions that are so far gone. Now for the first time, we're introducing it into the law. But you've limited yourself to the opposite, to the fact that you don't trust that it's going to be quality done. I'm telling you it will. And what kind of market it is, what security it is, and what quality it is when you have to buy goods, cars, for five years of concession. Is it safe that you'll have a drawer or have a quality car, if in five years you don't know if you'll have a concession again? Well, that pushes me in the direction of the fitter, not what I'm proposing right now that you have a guarantee that this job will work in 5 and 10 and 15 years, if you're good enough, if you're family members, the citizens want to use your service. That guarantees me that people will raise your quality, because if you don't have security in five years you'll have a concession so who's going to invest, why invest? I'll drive in what's worth it in five years or on the other hand, the price will be huge, what's worth in five years, which in some cases is. Yes, somewhere prices are very high because people can't pay their investments in 5 years and that's why prices are high and with this price they'll certainly fall on the market and there won't be 35,000 because 35,000 can't handle 50,000, someone said well, funerals. There may be 700 of them and be them, but with the quality that the state will control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89928	Thank you. Two replicas. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89929	Mr. Minister, we've been telling you all along both Mr. Linic and I and a lot of us here that you've practically got this law. Everything in the Law on the Communist Economy is prescribed. If anything, if you mind and if you want to regulate something further, then on those 3 articles in the municipal economy of the Law on the Communist Economy, let's add a few more things that are controversial and let's do it further. The decision that you made from the City of Zagreb should also be prescribed in which way these other things will be defined, but the law you have. The same way the tender is called for taxi service here in Zagreb, in the same way the units of local self-government decide who will carry out public urban transport in their territory, will give their utility or give concession to some private company. Let's say in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County we have River Autotrans, we have Rijeka trans, I don't know what you're talking about when you're talking about a new law that will only prescribe one small piece of some law that is crucial to the functioning of units of local self-government. If there are any shortcomings in it, let us complete it, and to what do you bring a new law which will only describe to me who will lead whom when he dies, and which test must be given by him who drives it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89930	Minister Gordan Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89931	I have to admit, you're not clear to me right now. Do you think it is important or irrelevant, is your argument that this law should not be passed because this activity is irrelevant. Did you just say that? ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what you said. ... That's how it worked out in the end. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89932	We can't do that. Minister Maras, we can't talk like that. You answered for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89933	I didn't get it right, I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89934	But there's no way to explain it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89935	I'm sorry. So I realized that Mr. Klaric said that and that he doesn't need to bring this because it's a non-essential topic and a non-essential law and then I have nothing to add to it. So what do we discuss more? I think it's important and that's why we want to regulate it and insist that it's important because it's a very important area for our fellow citizens' lives. And it is not true, do not underestimate the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, you have probably said the same on behalf of the representatives of the HDZ, that they only bring their views if they write the European directive raise their hand. That's what you HDZ guys might be doing, the other MPs don't. You speak only on behalf of the HDZ representative. I am sorry if, as soon as the HDZ representatives see the European directive, they raise their hands and don't think at all, they don't even try to read the materials. If you say the same thing, I'm sorry. I hope that you will change your work at the Club of Representatives of the HDZ because it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So no more when you see a European directive automatically raise your hand for, read the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89936	Here's a colleague, Tomislav Klaric, signaling that we've hurt the Rules of Procedure somewhere, let's hear where.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89937	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. The minister said I was saying something I wasn't saying. I think you should protect me in that part. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89938	Like this, colleague Klaric, what did you say, 238. During the debate, a representative must not, is he a colleague of Maras, or a minister, can you read the article and interpret it? ... /The noise in the hall./... Now, here's the thing, you're misusing the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, or you don't understand the difference between a representative and a minister, and now tell me what's true. ... This second one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then I won't give you a warning, but you just admitted that you can't make a distinction between counsel and minister, that you don't understand the difference. ... A new replica, Slavko Linic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89939	I want to be very clear, so I will use a quote from my colleague, Kraljić. The undertakers happily cried out at last the deceased became a slave. Gentlemen, this is the difference between public activity and market activity. I, Slavko Linic, speak on behalf of Croatian citizens who do not want the deceased to become his slave. Is that clear to you? With your law, the deceased becomes a slave. It's the worst charge, it's the worst qualification of this law. That's what I want to explain to you, because in your address you can't understand what community activity or public interest is. Because when he becomes a dead slave, you know what he is then? Okay. You say there will be 700 of them. So let them fight. You say a five-year concession, so he won't invest in a car. And what's his market? Six months from now, it's gonna go down. He'll invest, he'll lose money, he'll be in debt, he won't pay taxes. That's what you want to do with the deceased. That's what you want with your law. Do you understand where the problem is? The deceased cannot be a slave. The deceased is the public interest of the Republic of Croatia and he must be in favor if you do not want state, county, then unit of local self-government. And they must answer that the deceased is not a slave. And that those who have been dealing with this for five years are doing it correctly, professionally and have been safe for five years. And what do you offer them? In six months' time, he'll fail, lose his car, lose the money he invested in anything, and he won't pay taxes and maybe leave the deceased on the road because he won't pay his debts to flowers or I don't know what. Do you understand where the deceased is? It's the ministers of your marriage. And the Law on Community Activity makes it clear that it is a public interest and is not a commodity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89940	Minister Maras responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89941	What's the problem if they fail? Is he going to stay a utility company in Rijeka? He'll have more to do then. Do we have that security? Who's defending utility companies to keep working? Is anyone defending them? Is at this point we ourselves have found that as regards the price and amount paid for the funeral that transport is one of the smallest parts. So, at this point, you're suggesting that the deceased is making money on this, on the ladders, on the suit, on anything. But most of the price is in it, absolutely yes. I want you to consult with people. So you're not gonna tell me that transportation costs more than a coffin? ... That's what I'm talking about. [[You can't hear it.]] So it's already in this one. Already at this point, you're suggesting it's a commodity, so there's no fear that utility companies will stop working. [[Intruder Stazic: Then we will continue the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]] Keep them working, keep them moving. No one's gonna stop them. If someone in the River fails, the municipal enterprise will take over his role. But if of course it's in the interest of the city of Rijeka. If it isn't, it won't. But I'm telling you again, you said yourself that they deserve to be taken care of. Why wouldn't the state run such a law on them? What's the problem? ... But it's not a communal activity. [[You can't hear it.]] Transportation is not a communal activity. The state can take care of it and take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89942	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSU club, the respected representative Ljiljana Cvetovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89943	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. The position of the Proposer of the Law on burial activity is that the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy are contrary to the Directive 2006. The European Parliament and the Council of 12.12.2006 on services on the internal market which affirms the principles of freedom of movement of goods, freedom of business, freedom to provide services, competition and prohibition of discrimination, and ultimately violate Article 49(1) and (2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the same legal position for entrepreneurs on the market and prohibits the establishment of a monopolitical position on the market. In this regard, we point out that the directive states that it is appropriate to apply the provisions of the Directive on freedom of business and the free movement of services exclusively to the extent that the relevant activities are open to competition, so that Member States are not obliged to liberalise services of general economic interest, privatise state-owned enterprises providing such services or to abolish existing monopolies for other activities or certain distribution services. The Directive does not require Member States to organise those activities in a certain way. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy, funeral activity is an activity carried out as a public service and is in the general economic interest following which there is no obligation under the directive for Member States to liberalise and operate in the way proposed by the Law on burial activity. The experience of EU member states is cited, for example, by entering the EU, Slovenia has not changed its laws, and the transactions in question are organised as a municipal activity, and it is concluded that they are the only ones that should remain. Therefore, European regulations do not impose in any part the obligation to exclude, maintain cemeteries and crematories and transport the deceased from the area of the municipal economy or to change the way they are now regulated. Furthermore, the proposal for a Law on burial activity is opposed to a whole set of applicable rules. In the first order of the Law on Cemeteries, the Cemetery Regulations, the Rules of Conduct of the Gravel Eyewitness and the Register of Dead Persons and other Regulations. The Law on Cemeteries established the concept of accompanying buildings located in or outside the cemetery, which are crematories, mortuaries, halls for exposure on stage, rooms for escorting the dead and the like. The proposal of the Law on burial activity defines the concept of the Cemetery Centre as an object exclusively outside the cemetery with all official and working rooms for the dispatch and cremation of the deceased person and the conduct of the mortuary activity. According to the above, the Cemetery Center represents a accompanying building within the meaning of the Law on Cemeteries. In this regard, it is stated firstly that the Law on Cemeteries has established that the accompanying buildings are being built in or outside the cemetery, and the proposal of the Law on burial activity has determined their construction only outside the cemetery, which is contrary. Furthermore, according to the Law on Cemeteries, the rules on cemeteries were also adopted as a sublegal regulation which found that cemeteries specifically constitute buildings for the dispatch of the deceased and official reception and processing facilities for the deceased, resulting in those spaces being considered an integral part of the cemetery. In this regard, Article 11 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The rules on cemeteries have established where farewell spaces must be located in the cemetery and where the driving work and the official part and what the morgue consists of. By reading the text of the bill, it is obvious that he did not regulate the issue or refer to the provisions of the applicable specific rules, indicating the fact that the Proposer of the Law on burial activity did not take into account those provisions of the specific regulations on accompanying buildings at all. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on Cemeteries is prescribed that the deceased may be buried outside the cemetery only with the approval of the body of the unit of local self-government responsible for municipal affairs, with the prior opinion of the body of the local self-government responsible for health affairs. The proposal for a Law on burial activity found that, among other matters, the organisation of the dispersion of the ashes of the deceased in nature is understood, which is certainly treated by burial outside the cemetery and in no way is respected by the provisions of the Law on Cemeteries. The Law on Cemeteries establishes the obligation of the municipal society cemetery administration to lead eyewitnesses on the burial of all dead persons in the field of units of local self-government and, in that sense, it was also adopted in force by the Rules on the leadership of the grave eyewitness and the Register of Dead Persons. As the proposal for the Law on burial activity found that the funeral activity understood both the takeover and the transport of dead persons from the place of death, it was evident that the directorate of the cemetery could no longer lead a grave witness and would be responsible for the data from the grave eyewitness as it is stated since it would not have the names of all dead persons in the area of local self-government units but only those buried in cemeterys and certain units of local self-government managed by the cemetery administration or municipal society. Accordingly, there is experience in previous practice based on this particular problem, changes to the rules in the way that all deceased persons have taken over the municipal society since there have been regular records of the burial of all dead in the local self-government unit. In addition, in the context of the arrangements for the management of the cemetery, which, in the case of the adoption of the proposed legal solution, will not be able to properly and fully implement it, and could, on the basis of the above, be in breach of the law. For this reason, we call on the applicant to carefully consider these examples, prepare and harmonise the text of the proposal for a second reading law, because in the opposite advocates of the Club of Representatives of HSU they will not vote for the adoption of the Law on undertakement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89944	Two replicas. First, the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89945	I therefore agree with my colleague Cvetovic that, in the opening explanation of this law, it is said to be contrary to the European directive. 5 times today we have reiterated that this is not true and that this is an incorrect finding in the proposal for this law for the reason that the state's active activity can be established and it has been established in Croatian regulations and in this part it refers to the maintenance of cemeteries, crematories and transport. I'm just talking about transportation, which means that the deceased is not a slave, but a public interest, and that's why it's prescribed communal. The constitutional court of the Republic of Croatia is also a lawsuit that went against such a law because it is contrary to both the Croatian Constitution and the Croatian laws. So that's one of the most important findings in opposing this proposal and that's something we need to understand. And the market activity where it earns the most there is, I'll read it again, so it's not a municipal activity, it's not a public interest in the funeral, it's a market category and it's established by the Competition Protection Agency. And what are market jobs about funeral services, are the sale of funeral equipment, bats, funeral urns, textile furniture for a deceased person, stage equipment, flowers to mark the homes of deceased persons or stage and graves, also grave features, organization of death notices, publication of accompanying content, notices, thanks, memories in print and electronic media, organizations and the provision of care services, washing and everything else. These are market activities and there cannot be any side to competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89946	Time. Thank you. The replica corresponds to the respected Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89947	... Here's what I was about to answer to you, what you said yourself, and this so-called. The opening of the market, in such a proposed way, will be questionable to meet standards, the quality of the performance of that activity, the price of services and the resulting increase, further functioning and survival of municipal societies, the disruption of organised and stalking modes of work and what is the most important satisfaction of end-users. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89948	Second replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89949	Well, my colleague, I'm more than happy with how deep you are in this problem, so you mention the grave eyewitnesses and all the problems that are going to come from this than our minister here twists our words, and little is worth it. The deceased is not a slave and cannot be a market category. If he thinks they're little biscuits and he can carry them in a way I don't know which way, then I think we've mixed up the pots. He had the Law on the Communist Economy and every moment in your mind that you wouldn't support a law like this unless these things changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89950	Reply to the replica Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89951	I don't understand why anything is going on if it doesn't have to be, if there's a law, if no one's making us change it in a country where we have so many problems, I think this would be just one extra of a problem. And we all need to know, and the one who tried it and the one who's just gonna try to get death in someone's family is to pay respects to the dead, doing a decent burial shouldn't be reduced to a naked and uncontrollable competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89952	In the name of the HNS club, the respected Vesna Sabalić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with co-workers of the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats supports the proposal of the Law on undertakement. First of all, because this bill affirms the principle of freedom to provide services, the principle of competition and the final principle of non-discrimination. We hold that this proposal guarantees equal legal position for entrepreneurs and prohibits the establishment of a monopolitical position on the market. The HNS Club has only one reservation concerning Article 23 of the proposed law. In this regard, Article 23 states that the date of adoption of the law ceases to apply concessions for the exercise of this activity granted by the competent authorities, local self-government units and the City of Zagreb. Since this is the first reading, we propose to the Proposer that he reconsider the legal consequences that could cause the provisions of this article. It is our view that you would have to set a deadline, for example, for a year, given that there are contractual obligations between units of local self-government and concessionaries. So, I will repeat once again the Croatian People's Party keeps the bill of quality, because this law will lead to market liberalisation, the abolition of company monopoly owned by local self-government units and ultimately lead to the rise in service quality, the fall in prices and additional employment of workers in the field of providing these services. I personally believe that abolishing the monopoly is primarily a public interest. The fact is that public authority, and local self-government, is that it should have the exact same rights and responsibilities as other legal persons, but we know that because of legal powers, which because of power, influence is beyond the power of its competitors. The debate was mainly at the level of competitive relations here, and I think it is the primary and most important elimination of the monopoly and that competition will certainly lead to an increase in service quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89954	He had one replica. Dear Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89955	I'll be boring if I'm the kind of person who wants to privatize everything, and I've always been there for private relations in competition and the state to move away. But my dear lady the deceased is not a slave, and you must understand that once upon a time. And that's why the public interest is being determined. And when the public interest is determined, then there is a limited access of entrepreneurs to that market. And that's why there are 90 of them in Zagreb, and there are no 390 because when there are 390 of them, then I'll remind you what's going on in construction now. They all go below the price, tear down their balance sheet, tear down their capital value, tear down their employees' salaries because it's pure competition, it's pure competition. It'll be in the transport battle tomorrow. I repeat again that our laws speak of transportation because when it comes to... equipment, everything else, that it is market and according to our current laws and there must be no monopoly. He can't be here because if the family wants to collect the coffin, he can buy it. Any of the current undertakers who are not part of the communal activity can offer their families whatever they want and whatever funeral they want. Therefore, there is free competition. But the transport of the deceased, you see, isn't commercial, isn't a marketing category, and it can't be because if we go there, the battle for competitiveness, the battle with prices, the battle... it'll jeopardize the goods, and that goods is called the deceased.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89956	The final debate will be an individual debate. You haven't answered, I'm sorry. I can't give you my word if you haven't answered. There will be an individual debate, the respected representative of Maria Ilic. We don't have Maria Ilic. It is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89957	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I'll try to look back at a few articles of the proposed law. In accordance with Article 4(7), the concept of a funeral centre has been established. Except that the provision is contrary to the Law on Cemeteries and the accompanying sublaws, since the Law on Cemeteries determines that the accompanying buildings are located in or outside the cemetery, and this bill requires that these objects are located exclusively outside the cemetery. It is not in line with the rest of the text of the very proposal for a law on funeral activity. The same legal proposal uses expressions of the funeral center, space as well as business premises, and asks whether the applicant meant the same concept using different terms or not. If not, all expressions and meanings must be accurately determined. I'm also interested in who and who can build new facilities, so funeral centers, and whether they're suitable for someone and for this occasion? In addition, paragraph 1 of Article 5 provides that the undertaker is obliged to perform his services in accordance with the rules of the profession. In this respect, the applicant has not defined the criteria, i.e. the standards for providing services, nor referred to specific rules of the profession. In addition, the principles for public service are completely disregarded, prescribed by the Law on the Communal Economy, such as its permanent and quality implementation, maintenance of facilities and equipment in a state of functional capacity and the public of work. The same shall apply to the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 6 and the provision of paragraph 2 is quite unclear as it does not refer to a specific specific regulation which would have been properly applied, which, according to the knowledge, does not even exist, but only has good practice in carrying out activities by municipal companies owned by units of local self-government. Article 8 does not necessarily stipulate whether all tax purposes must be carried out cumulatively or each mortuary has the ability to perform certain or some of the mortuary tasks. Furthermore, the definition of what is understood under a specific mortuary work has been lagging behind, and it is certainly necessary for the proper and complete application of this provision. For example, the expressions of organization and sales, cremation and others are mixed, it is unclear that it understands the funeral and dispatch organization or the organisation of the sale of flowers, candles or service organisations on the body of the deceased person. Whoever performs the very act of burial is a completely unacceptable provision, other jobs, quote, other tasks necessary to carry out a funeral activity, resulting in an entirely arbitrary interpretation of the concept of funeral activity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There is no provision in the Proposal for a Law on burial activity that would define the way, i.e. the procedure of forming as well as the modification of the prices of certain services covered by the bill, which certainly brings users of services into an unfavourable position in relation to the applicable regulations governing funeral activity as communal and precisely define the procedure concerning the formation and modification of service prices. With regard to the exemption of the transport of the deceased as a communal activity, the issue of the operation of a 0-24-hour service now organised by all cities through municipal societies is raised, where the emphasis is essentially on the transport of the deceased, who did not die naturally, but on cases of violent death, traffic accidents, murders and the like, and where the state funeral services of municipal societies, as a rule, carry out the transport of the deceased from the site of the event to the place of course on the orders of the MUP. Articles 10 to 16 that I do not now list, should consider the position or obligations of foreign undertakers. In relation to professional training, it is prescribed that the mortuary must meet the special condition of professional training for the performance of the mortuary activity, not indicating what is the special condition or employment of a full-time worker that meets this condition. Professional training shall be demonstrated by passing an expert examination to carry out the mortuary activity. A professional examination may be attended by a person with at least secondary vocational education. That proposal for a provision is fully adjusted when the undertaker is an individual or craftsman, and is not adapted for the case where the undertaker is a commercial enterprise, for example. an existing municipal society. In this case, it is entirely unclear which of the employees of the company must meet the special condition of professional training to carry out the mortuary activity. As stated in the bill of law, regardless of who the undertaker is, it is sufficient that he has one full-time employee with a secondary vocational education to perform a total of 15 different types of funeral work. I do not think that this proposal for a law is a thorough and orderly issue, and the applicable legal arrangement is in line with specific needs in the field of certain local units and should be maintained as long as possible in such a way that units of local self-government within their own self-government area choose how they will organise those activities under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the Law on the municipal economy. I think it is also important to note that units of local self-government always keep in mind but also on paper a social picture of their area of action and it is the starting point in forming funeral services prices. This particular social sensitivity is extremely important because it is an activity that concerns every person. And it's not true that units of local self-government gain some profits through funeral activity precisely for the reasons that I've cited, and that's the social moment. So about some monopoly if the mayor, the city council, people who are sensitive to people in this crisis time are sure to adjust to the minimum possible payment rate to how much they bear to cover the costs. What's to blame, and that's the voice on the ground, is that municipal societies didn't get involved in the creation of a bill. What I can add as Mr. Linic or someone else said, of course there seems to be a struggle for the deceased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89958	Final minutes belong to Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89959	Thank you all very much for the discussion. I can only say for a start that we will organise all these proposals that we have heard, and especially in the debates of Ms. HSU who had concrete suggestions on certain articles that we will include them and that we will organise a special meeting with the Club of Representatives of HSU next week in order to pass certain things to see and try to remove that I would say a little misunderstanding or a skeptic to the adoption of this law because it really is not a problem if it is a matter of speaking in law and certain items where the funeral center is and that it is in line with the Law on Cemeteries. In fact, this is the kind of debate they are serving, and that is why we are going to organise a meeting next week before it is sent to the government's second reading procedure with the Club of Representatives of HSU because I see this need, given the specific proposals, is particularly expressed. What I'd like to say to a colleague of the HNS is that there is a transitional period of one year. So all those who have concessions and who have to comply within a certain period according to this law will have one year to do so. So there's no dilemma and there's no vacuum, there's no part of it that doesn't turn out that now from tomorrow I can't do the work of those who were able to do it until yesterday but within a year these people will be able to do the job and in some way pass another checking that they're satisfying I'm now going to say once more stricter conditions and I'm really surprised that no one has responded to it. They are stricter conditions now than they are in this law than they are under the decisions of the local self-government unit. So much for whether or not we've taken care of the dignity of the deceased and I don't think that at the very first moment even one part of them might be satisfied if they don't invest additionally in their equipment and their infrastructure, they might not satisfy the conditions that we set, which are not small. See the article that defines what you must have to do to carry out the mortuary activity, that is Article 11 and you will see that it is now much harder to satisfy than it has been so far. On the other hand, let's settle the issue of constitutional suit. The Constitutional Court has defined that the legislator has the right but that is not necessary. So we can define that it's not a communal activity, and we're just defining it with a proposal right now. Because if it's a communal activity, then you'll solve the problem very simply with a constitutional lawsuit and the law will fall. So that as the legislator has the right and can assess what can be and what is not a communal activity. Because then we could declare this story immediately in the beginning impossible but I think it is not unconstitutional, for example, in Austria or in some other European Union countries, that it will not be unconstitutional in Croatia either. And that's why I'm starting again at the end of what I said that we want to regulate the market, that we want people to have available services in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. If it wasn't for people who couldn't translate their dead from town to town just because there's this company or this undertaker has no concession on that town and it happens, I told you now this one example that was between Varazdin and Split, and that's what happens, and we should sort of ask ourselves how to solve it. That law has never been defined so far. So it was not possible to perform a service on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and this is what we allow. On the other hand, we want what has been shown in practice to be possible and that is that undertakers or those who do so as private entrepreneurs perform a quality service if possible in Zagreb is possible for sure throughout the Republic of Croatia especially in those cities where local self-government units do not have enough transport in order to have their own utility and do so. Why would someone be privileged in a big city because that utility can afford to have a better service than in a smaller city? Why can't it happen that someone has a company that will cover a wider area without a concession if they meet the conditions. So I really don't understand what the problem is. And you see and I'll give, next time we'll give that information that we have for the cities, unfortunately we don't have everything, you have a large majority of local self-government units that don't have within their utility or any conditions to take care of the deceased. And with this law we also allow it to be regulated at the level of all Croatia. So the legislator's interest is here to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to provide them with a quality service, to allow them to in certain areas where there is a large amount I would say transport and large cities that municipal businesses do not have a monopoly, I agree that this should not be the case. And that is why it must be based on which the interests of the citizens of one big city are determined in relation to smaller towns or Zagreb compared to Split or Rijeka. This should be unified, it is a service that all in Croatia should receive under the same conditions. Of course, strictly controlled by the legislator, and I don't know if you've noticed that, too, we're looking for additional educated people who work in it, as well as in utility companies. You're right, you should put it in utility companies to know that people have a certain education and in utility companies that do it because they're not in themselves ready to do it just because they're employees of a utility company. So we'll also put it on that side and thank you for that proposal. So there will also be an obligation for people to pass in municipal enterprises, not just in companies, to pass education and get professional education from the relevant body. By repeating again and again, means this law in support of more or less everyone who deals with it. I do not believe that someone who now had a concession, for example in Zagreb, supported the law because they wanted to create competition for themselves. So, theoretically, people would work against themselves. Why would someone who now has a concession contract support the adoption of this law if they think it's bad? Why? He's got a secure job, and there's this guy I've been talking to, he's got the only concession in the Long Village, he can go smooth and do great, no one asks him anything, there's no other concessionaire, but he's the same for this law. I guess we can trust these people, too, so I guess they understand the problem and they know how this job is done. We often have complaints about not consulting the profession, and when we talk about the rules of the profession, here is the lady also noticed it, it says very clearly that we will bring in implementing acts that will define what needs to be done, what needs to be passed to prove the profession, etc. So by law we've included more or less and that it will define what level of expertise someone has to have to do this job. So if you have support, I would say those people who do, if you have support based on the experiences of foreign professional organisations and the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Employers, if you have the support of one good part and the unit of local self-government who, regardless of what the Association of Cities has given such a position, we know that it sometimes doesn't work very well that it's so representative as to say that all 500 units are unison. So let's say today the mayor of Ivanca, the vice president of this House, Mr. Batinic was in favour of the law. And he's a member of the City Association, he's mayor. And all the other mayors who supported this bill through debate and committees, etc. So we let sometimes attitudes that can be defined one way or another, out of this and out of that interest. We know how there's been a struggle between who's going to be president of the Association of Cities, and that's very important from what position it's from. So on that side, I'm not sure that one big part, or I'm sure that one large part of the municipalities and cities support this law. On this side here, I can now say that on the basis of the debate in the Assembly, tomorrow, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and these discussions and other committees will make a proposal because we want this law to be passed by the end of this session of the Parliament so that the market can finally be regulated in the way we think it should be, with the maximum control and compliance of standards that have been valid so far and even the improvement of standards. So no one's talking about, as someone in the debate said, funerals without the control of units of local self-government means cemetery. The burial and organisation at the cemetery itself will remain in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, so it was also one of the objections of the city's association that nothing can be organised on its property without its knowledge. Absolutely not. But when you asked what the organization is, for example, the funeral organization is that you get an input or an entry account from a municipal company that provides a burial service, or a funeral service, and then you organize the whole transport and funeral within one service, full service. So thank you very much for the discussion, she was dynamic. We've written down a lot of suggestions and here we are, we're at our disposal to, of course, say this about the HSU club, but that's true for others if there's any need to talk to anyone, although there aren't many clubs now, but we're going to try to consult all the way to another debate in order for the law to be the best possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89960	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89961	It's just for the minister's sake. Zagreb has 90 concession contracts under the Law on municipal activities of the public tender. It operates under the Law on the municipal economy and this is based on public interest. So I don't know what you're talking about, you're making a difference between Rijeka and Zagreb. Both work according to the same law. What you want, you don't want Zagreb to do that way either. You want Zagreb to have a competition in part of the transport because it is the only dispute in your law. All other activities are now marketable, but you want the transport of the deceased market activity and do not allow the City of Zagreb to be held accountable. Plus you're saying the City of Zagreb has 10 points to act on, so do you need me to call you the concession law that prescribes what it must contain, how it must contain, what the tenders are, which must be controlled, how it is controlled. Well, hundreds of laws are about public activity, hundreds of laws, and they are respected by those who are responsible for them, and they are units of local self-government. On the other hand, you as a minister want a competition but you are not authorized to determine what public activity is, you are not in charge of that part. That's the second jurisdiction. There's something else. Units of local self-government, so their activity defines the Law on Local Self-Government. You're trying to dispute that part, and that part. Why, well, because you think you have the right to define what it is to be a public interest. That's what we've defined by some other laws, and that's what they are, now they're conflicts of law. That's all you suggested here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89962	Minister Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89963	I said where the transport of the deceased was mentioned with two items. Nowhere in any Law on Local Self-Government and Local Self-Government Units is that mentioned. So I also made it very clear that in Zagreb it is, Zagreb estimated that 92% of the market for private workers, 30 of them, but the point is that in Zagreb it works. And why wouldn't the state be able to regulate that market that way, where's the problem? And I haven't made any difference between Zagreb and Rijeka on the issue of citizens. You're saying it's a unit of local self-government, and I'm saying that the state can regulate it. That's the only place we disagree. Why wouldn't the state be able to regulate that? For what? What's the problem? I'm saying that there are stricter conditions, to take more care of the deceased. What's the problem? Why couldn't the state regulate? It's not a market as big and I'd say so specific as some of the markets you mentioned... service. ... No, it's not more important, just because the deceased is more important, that's why the state needs to regulate him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here, you just gave me the right. More important is the deceased and the state should therefore make an effort and regulate that market even better than it is regulated... Well, it's a public interest, that the state regulates, absolutely, that the state regulates the market and the public interest, that you know that a man can buy an adequate vehicle, that he has a health care vehicle, I didn't talk about the way Zagreb gives concession, I was saying... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89964	Mr. Secretary, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89965	Here's another sentence. I was only talking about what they cited as a request for what a undertaker should have. It is much stricter here than it is in the current decision of Zagreb. So here's thank you very much and I'll see you in 10 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89966	Thank you. We'll stop working now. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. in a united debate on the five Proposals for a Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. Good night. Session interrupted in 20.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-12-0.u89967	Proposal for a Law on burial activity, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 733. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - a proposal for a Law on undertakement is adopted. - any objections, suggestions and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 76 votes for, 7 abstentions and 12 against a conclusion on the adoption of the law in the first reading of P.Z.E. No. 733. We will continue our colleagues and colleagues at 1600 hours with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes.
