ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89330	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning! We're moving on with the session. A fellow Salapic signals he has something to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89331	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 248. We are looking for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the HDSSB Club for 10 minutes due to the circumstances of inappropriate treatment in the town of Knin, the removal of the Croatian national flag from the Knin fortress for election purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89332	Here you go. Wait, I can't answer two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89333	HDZ at the same point is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89334	Okay. My colleague Dragovan? My colleague Lesar?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89335	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I'm also looking for a break on the same subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89336	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89337	On behalf of the independents, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89338	Independent. Cain? My colleague Kosor?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89339	Good to see you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89340	Okay. Has everyone called who's going to pick up now? All right. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:30. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the HDSSB club, a respected counterpart, Buric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89342	I'm going to start this brief discussion on behalf of the club with a quote from Miroslav Krleža: "I'm hitting an anthem on the drum for you human nonsense." The theme is the Knin flag and what we had a chance to look at last Friday. The Croatian flag on the Knin fortress is a symbol of the victory of all Croatian patriots throughout the Homeland War and it belongs to all Croatian defenders, belongs to all Croatians and Croats, belongs to the entire Croatian people and represents the national treasure. This flag is a symbol that the victim who was struck at the foundations of Croatian independence and independence both in Vukovar and Skabrnj and in Borovo Sel and Ovcara and in all the places of death in the great Serbian and Chetnic aggression during the Homeland War that the victim was not in vain. This flag belongs to the entire Croatian people, to no individual, and especially not to any presidential candidate, and must not be misused in such an unscrupulous way. Who is Josepha Roman to remove and present this Croatian symbol, this national treasure, from the Knin fortress and to give it to anyone and to give it to them. Who is Josepha Rimac to call this symbol and the national treasure of the Croatian state a souvenir? In this case, Josipa Rimac is not only the mayor of the city of Knin but also a member of the HDZ presidency. Is this how it sends a message about the thinking and behavior and new leadership of HDZ that for and the top of HDZ, the State Treasury is a souvenir shop? Is the message being sent now that the State Treasury is a self-service from which the HDZ estimates that they are worthy of taking what they want? Mrs. Josepha Rimac can give away what is hers. We're used to, there have been cases like this before, for career advancement as I recall there were gifts and for the former HDZ president in the form of a brooch, so it went back. But that's not compared to what was done today and what was done five days ago. Giving the Croatian flag to anyone means that HDZ considers Croatia to be HDZ. And Croatia, gentlemen of HDZ, is not HDZ. Croatia did not create HDZ, but the Croatian people and members of all political parties and those who were never in the Homeland War or are now members of any political party. Although I, too, belonged to HDZ at the beginning of the Homeland War at the time, never took the right to say and to believe that the Croatian state created HDZ. It was created by the Croatian people, created by Croats and Croats and those of Croatian citizens who are not members of the Croatian people and dressed as a uniform of the National Guard and the Croatian Army and stood in defense of Croatian independence and independence. Homeland war doesn't belong to any party or HDZ. There's no excuse for what was done in Sanader's government either. You said there is no collective responsibility, then there is no collective taking credit for creating an independent and independent Croatian state. And presidential candidate Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic should not have accepted this as a gift because national treasures are not given or donated or sold. Souvenirs bow and sell. The Croatian flag on the Knin fortress is not a souvenir that as a symbol of freedom can be given or sold to anyone because freedom is not sold. Mrs. Kolinda Grabar should return it to the Knin Museum because it belongs not only to the city of Knin but to the entire Croatian state. If anyone deserved that knight's flag, it was just the late president. Francis Tudjman to whom it should have been put on the stage. No one else has that right anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89343	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Gordan Jandrokovic, will speak. Here you go. ... Fellow Members, colleagues, please colleague Buric, let's act parliamentaryly. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I think we're embarrassing this House by shouting from the bench. Don't do that, kindly please. Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So we are really embarrassing this house at all to discuss that it is one official souvenir of the City of Knin, and the flag you speak of Mr. Buric is indeed, it is a flag that is really given to others, which was not won by the candidate for President Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitrović, but also by the other ones who come to Knin. Well, I was just talking to the mayor right now, and she tells me that the same souvenir was given to the fans' group, the cyclists who went to Dinara. So, it's not, I think the Croatian public knows here it's not about the original 1995 flag because it's in the museum, the military museum. So it's not that flag. This is about a souvenir that the City of Knin as the official souvenir of the City of Knin, because that flag is a symbol of something, but this is not the original. And we are now discussing it as if someone were to present a wolfdole dove or a Baška plate of replicas, of course, not originals, and then in the Croatian Parliament we have a debate as to why someone donated a replica of the Wolf dove or I don't know the Baška plates. So this is so pointless, this is so funny. And you, my colleague Buric, have brought out the entire pledoies as a former member of the Croatian Democratic Community, I don't remember you, but my colleagues tell me that you were very fond of courting former Prime Minister Sanader. And today you want to forget it, but unfortunately it won't be forgotten because there are people who have witnessed it. So please don't work from an elephant flea. I know the election campaign situation is always tense. The president of the current Josipovic tones, we see research, your candidate, and I don't know if you are for Josipovic or Kujundzic, and everything seems to me that you tend more to Josipovic than to Kujundzic. You're getting nervous, and it makes sense that you're looking for these stupid topics. But it won't help you. The Croatian Democratic Community has been winning neatly since the new leadership you are calling for has taken over our party and will win both the presidential and parliamentary elections, whether you work such circuses or not. And this debate right now, I don't know what else to tell you. This is ridiculous, this is absurd, this is below the level of the Croatian Parliament. And then don't be surprised that the Croatian Parliament has the rating it has. We would better discuss what the Serbian foreign minister is telling us that Serbia wants to go out to sea. Our president, the current Josipovic, took hold of Seselj, became his main partner in the campaign. When we warned about what was happening seven days ago, he expressed regret. The foreign minister expressed her condolences to Serbia because he returned, not to the victims, but to Serbia, the Chetnic Duke Nikolic and Vucic, and we watched footage the other day on Croatian television of what they were doing with Sheselja. And now we're discussing a gift souvenir here, not what we have at the Croatian border of the Serbian-Russian exercise, and it doesn't say anything about the ruling structure. But now running after HDZ every day we have twitter diplomacy, Seselj and the Serbian top fearing that someone wrote something on Twitter. Funnyly, we are not talking about serious real topics, but you are trying to make a case out of nothing and it will not come after you, Croatian citizens will recognize it and reward those who care about Croatia and who have shown that they are best at managing and leading Croatia. Thank you. Thank you, too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89345	It's the SDP club and the respected Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89346	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP club is startled by the fact that nothing in Croatia is sacred anymore and that everything is used for pre-election purposes. And listen, we're used to HDZ seeing things. But every time and with every new gesture, we're surprised. You take absolutely everything, you take the symbols of the victory of the Croatian army and Croatian citizens, you take it, you take it before the taxpayers' money, now you think Croatia is yours and you still claim that Croatia is yours. Croatia is not HDZ, Croatia is much, much better, it deserves much better, and if you think that you can use everything for pre-election purposes, maybe Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic thinks it's good for her, Croatian citizens will decide. We here at the SDP club don't want to argue or participate in a pre-election campaign. As my predecessor practically opened a political speech, a pre-election political speech on a subject that should not have anything to do with presidential elections at all. It will not help you in these presidential elections, or flags, or noises, or shouts about who will be the next Croatian president will decide Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89347	In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89348	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, yesterday the words "pate" to victims, memory and honor were the most commonly used words. We believe that places of suffering both civilians and defenders throughout Croatia must not and cannot be places of division, politicisation and foreigners regardless of who participates in them. Both the City of Knin and the Knin Fortress and the flag on that fortress is a symbol of freedom for Croatia. I hope that's clear to everyone. However, in a campaign that has not officially begun except for such a place of suffering and a symbol of freedom, I have noticed that individual presidential candidates are also entering public institutions, schools, hospitals and kindergartens, which, as far as I can remember, has never happened. As the state has, and all municipalities, cities and counties have rules on protocol gifts, on gifts given for protocol purposes. The mayor of the city of Knin is obliged, I call on her to publish a decision on the protocol gifts of the city of Knin and to explain to the public, rather than through parliamentary representatives, what it is about. If the Croatian flag, any original, any replicas, from the Knin Fortress is not the protocol gift of the city of Knin, then Mrs Kitarović must return that flag. Like all other presidential candidates who received on a gift everything that is outside the list of protocol gifts. And finally, it would be good to warn all the candidates and invite them to take care of themselves and their dignity in the campaign, to take care of the dignity and importance of the duties they are running for. Every move they make, every word, every one of their public appearances can act on a further division in Croatian society, on further tightening of relations or on the other hand, can act on turning around and listening to them in their visions of the future, not the past. At the moment, they are one of the responsible politicians on the Croatian political scene and must protect the function, importance and dignity of the Croatian political scene as candidates for the president of the Republic of Croatia and functions if they do not take care of themselves as a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89349	Thank you. In the name of the Independent Representatives Club, the respected Branko Vuksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89350	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Quite certain that the flag of the Republic of Croatia as a flag... other countries cannot be treated as souvenirs. In particular, we cannot treat the flag as a souvenir, that flag that is for Croatians, Croatian citizens in sacred places. Croatia will soon, thanks to both the former and current authorities, be aware of the name, the anthem, the coat of arms and the flag, and we see that we have begun to give it, as if it were our farces. The flag is certainly a symbol of Croatia, the flag is a symbol of statehood. This was not designed to give someone something modest, to give some souvenir, because if it were a souvenir then it would be given quietly, quietly, and that person would take the souvenir home and the media would not write about it. However, in this election campaign, which will certainly be the dirtiest flag and patriotism and the Homeland War and the state, and apparently the money will be privatised, will be used in the pre-election campaign. However, it should be known and said in the Croatian Parliament that Croatia is not divided politically, Croatia is not divided religiously, Croatia is not divided nationally, Croatia is not divided into southern and northern, Croatia is divided into robbed from one side and robbers on the other side who, by the way, sleep peacefully and those who have made it possible to rob. Croatia is divided into those who have everything and flags from the fortress and those who have nothing, even hope because it is stolen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89351	Another club of Independent Representatives and Honorable Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89352	Honorable Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, first one sentence on Vukovar. Yes, yesterday, in Vukovar, those who respect the victim of Vukovar won. Vukovar is a symbol, Vukovar is a hero, Vukovar is Croatia and Vukovar has not been humiliated this time unlike last year. This time the manipulation didn't go through, and that's certainly good. It would be far better for the Croatian state, parliament to help Vukovar. The Vukovar himself is unfortunately unable to help himself, and he has given so much to this country, he can't help himself economically, he can't help himself socially, and in some ways he needs to meet that city. Right, the Vukovar is being restored, it's being torn down, what's being torn down is rising. Unfortunately, it will be a long time before the hatred disappears, until it lives as it was before the war began and before the aggression. When no one will mind a Cyrillic, when every Croat will have his own Serb and vice versa, where everyone will boast of their own and where no one will mind what they other are saying. These are all processes, unfortunately these processes in this country take too long. Why did I mention this Vukovar? The Vukovar is a clear sanctity, but also the victim of Skabrnje and the flag that we are discussing today. You don't manipulate saints with one word. To assign a candidate if a flag has been assigned to Vukovar fort was raised in '95, then it is a top cynicism or rather an insult. And I agree that the flag, if it's about that flag, can't be considered a souvenir in any way. What the mayor of Knina did was not even a courtship, I would say that in some ways it was a degutant, politicization of sacredness, abuse of position, in one word an unnecessary politicisation which unnecessarily burdens us. And if it's not that flag from the museum, then I guess everyone expects every candidate who's going to be in Knin will be given that flag in the same way. Just yesterday I read somewhere I don't know what newspaper, it doesn't matter, about the flag with Iwo Jima, I guess it's kept in the Pentagon or some Washington museum, so no one can touch that flag, no one can remove it or give it away, I'm talking about the original. And here some simply mocked the saints, there's no problem in putting themselves in party gatherings and realizing that the flag is not in any way a souvenir.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89383	The esteemed vice president is protesting here at Mark's square right now, bringing a petition here to the Croatian Parliament. In particular, this case is about Gorski Kotar, but it is not only about them but also about areas of special state care, areas of the municipality, units of local self-government that are in the status of mountain-mounted areas of development indices, and it is also time to talk about it here in the Croatian Parliament and to seek a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89384	When you first raised your hand, I assumed it was a replica. You used the replica, so I didn't react. My colleague's dancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89385	For the same reason, I'm looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89386	Okay. My colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89387	Same reason I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89388	My colleague Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89389	On behalf of the HNS club, I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89390	The SDP club, too. You, too, colleague Linic, colleague Baranovic. That's it. Thank you very much. I'm setting a 10-minute break. We'll proceed at 13.10 minutes. It's 1:00 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,10 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89392	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of the HDZ Club, we asked for this break, offered and today's protest in Zagreb on Mark's square, from traditionally peaceful Gorans who have never responded in this way in 20 years' history, and not just one political option but literally all the leaders of the local self-government units from Gorski Kotar and their citizens came here to Zagreb, to petition. Namely, what's this about? It is that this government makes it easy, without considering long-term laws, to calculate statistics on the development of local self-government units on completely wrong parameters and thus not only the Gorski kotar units but like, Dalmatian hinterland, Slavonia, all the edges of the Republic of Croatia, and most of all those who are the most affected by satires in such a way as to take away the funds they have so far. What offered me more in this debate was the procedure of the Deputy Prime Minister who unannouncedly came to the meeting in Ravna Gora to convince the leaders of the local self-government units that in some other way they would get back what had been taken away from them. Imagine, return what they've taken from them. When we look at neighbouring countries in what way and what is the key criterion of this unfortunate development index by which all these units of local self-government have lost their status: population, GDP. Not a word of miles and miles of unclassified roads, not a word of population lists, and we have them there thank God since 1887, since the time of Mary Teresa where the population is seen to be halved, literally halved in these areas. And when these laws began to be discussed, nature warned us if you remember that ice cream in the Gorski Kotar area and what damage that ice-collapse caused. And it's not just about the Gorski kotar, it's literally all areas. The abandonment of the PPDS and mountain-mountan concepts will negatively affect the budgets of all units of local self-government. We talked earlier about the budgets, I just said that the Minister and the Ministry of the Government did not send any guidelines to the units of local self-government for making the budget for next year. We're doing our calculations by heart. With what they have now done, they are taking funds from Gorski Kotar, taking funds from local self-government units in Istria County, Slavonia, Lika, Dalmatia. Where does that lead us? Are we even thinking about development, about people in this area having to live? There are trucks and trucks, wooden-mass wagons coming out of the Gorski Kotar. Croatian forests have centralized everything. What does Gorski Kotar have in return? Now there's going to be an accumulation of cross streams. What's the Gorski Kotar doing with that mat? The lakes, the pipelines, the pipelines, the power lines, everything goes through the Gorski Kotar, and the Gorski Kotar loses its population. And if this is the way we think about it here in the Croatian Parliament, and this government will shut down not only the Gorski Kotar, but all of our border areas. What are we all going to put here in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, and let the rest be empty and empty for us. How do we think about the future and the development of this country? This is deeply unfair to those who live in these areas. We are talking about building a highway Zagreb – Rijeka that should have been an engine for the development of the area. How? Unfortunately, such actions and attitudes toward these parts have become the road for which people go especially those young educated, those who need to ensure the future and development. The industry is shut down, the production is shut down, we are left with nursing households and kilometers, miles of unclassified roads that need to be sprayed, which need tons and tons and trucks of sand that neither Greeks nor this government cares about how much it costs and what the state will get in its budget from being units of local self-government that had mountain-mounted status. From the mountain cotter from 20 to 30 million kuna. Well, the one in the ministry upstairs has a bathroom and how many six million kunas will pay for it annually. And Gorski Kotar and local self-government units will not have the means to pay for it. The lakes have the status of development as a Crikvenica at sea. This is a serious matter, it needs to be discussed and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89393	Thanks, buddy. Comrade Nenad Dance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89394	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Comrade Klaric, we'd have a lot more to talk about, a lot of time to talk about these parts. But here's a chance to meet you who weren't out there with those people to warn the ending that's dying out. The demographic image of the Gorski Kotar is catastrophic. In a hundred years the last 50% of the population has disappeared. The Gorski kotar now numbers just over 22,000 inhabitants. The 2011 census established a difference of less than 3100 inhabitants living in the 2001 census. The benefits enjoyed by Gorans were based on the wealth of the forest, the only natural wealth there is. The forest cover of the Gorski kotar is 83%. The forest contribution the Gorans made at the expense of the mountain-mountan area was 5%. The abolition of the mountain-mounted area lost that forest contribution, which at the level of the entire mountain cotter and local self-government units amounted to 3 million kuna. Realising that no one will benefit from the forest if there are no people in them because of the abolition of the Law on the mountainous and mountainous area and the adoption of the new Regional Development Act Gorana organized and with a dozen buses came here today to Mark's Square to warn all of us, all of Croatia's citizens, that if it were left in Gorski Kotar in a few years there would be no people. The development index for all municipalities of Gorski Kotar says they are above the average of the development of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder and ask all of you why, when this development is so great, people leave the Gorski kotar and do not live in the Gorski kotar, but more and more people have to live in Zagreb, Rijeka and other major areas. The development index does not reflect the right picture of the state of things in this area. The altitude is particularly difficult to make life conditions, but this is not taken into account when it comes to the Gorski Kotar Development Index. Residents and entrepreneurs struggle for three, four months a year with elementary survival, and in this situation no one wants to plan and invest funds and live in such uncertainty. The new criteria that will respect the abilities and limitations of the Gorski kotar are to ensure the competitiveness and equal conditions of adjustment, safe investments can keep people in that area, because Gorans have always lived there, Gorans have lived from the forest, Gorans have lived from the wood industry. However, the current situation and the current way both the government and the states treat the Gorski Kotar is not so. The tops were here in the square, looking for their justice. I hope when they come into the law, the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, the Law on Regional Development here on our assembly benches, keep that in mind because you support the Gorans because in the future, the Gorski Kotar will be visited as an area where people once called Gorani lived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89395	Thank you. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89396	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President and I went out to see a little bit and hear what the Gorans say. Gorani who, a colleague said, never objected and never came to the protests in Zagreb until now. What that means is 26 million kunas for mountain municipalities and cities know for themselves, because when we look at their budgets, we know well how much it is for each individual municipality and city. The coastal-goran County is called the Primorje-goranska County. When we take the coastal part and the mountainous part, then we see a clear difference, as we see when we take the NUTS2 region, so Zagreb and Slavonia and Baranja, which is connected to one NUTS region, then we see Zagreb with 120% of GDP on average with 34% of the EU and Slavonia on the average, so we have meat Zagreb and cabbage Slavonia on average from the European Union. The mountain cotter clearly deserves a different approach as well as the islands on which we have a law that has already lasted for 20 years and which about a billion kunas are annually directed through guarantees and direct money to the islands. And it's good, I have nothing, I've never said anything against our islands. But we must look at other parts of Croatia. When we look at the county, then we have 11 counties in the Republic of Croatia that have a development index below 75%. I'm talking about county. Among these 11 counties are 5 Slavonian counties. In these 11 counties live a million and 600 thousand inhabitants who have weaker living conditions, work and employment than those of the remaining 2.5 million inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. So the whole of Slavonia should actually be an assisted area. Like the mountain cotter, which is indeed a mountain-mounted area, I sometimes like to say that in these parts cows fall under a hand and not only those conditions in which one house is scattered in a very large area, in which, according to counterpart Klaric, many roads are unclassified and clearly and unarranged, etc. Where the organization of life in such an area is, in fact, far more difficult than in someone else. And it should be kept in mind. And because of that, I think that this law that goes into procedure and that will soon arrive should either be reshape or removed from the agenda until we've settled and we agree on how to actually solve this problem. Because really when we look at some municipalities in Lica, in the Dalmatian Zagora, not to mention 117 municipalities in Slavonia that are below 75% of the average of the RH development index, only 10 cities in Slavonia, pardon 9 and 1 municipalities, so the cities of Brod, Županja, Virovitica, Požega, Osijek, Valpovo, Našice and Donji Miholjac are not in that group that are up to 75%. And the Chepin municipality. So of 127 units, only 10 are over 75% of the RH's development index. Should we say that, in fact, if we should, at all, come and see everyone together, and we saw when we went to Vukovar, when you pass that the whole Slavonia is actually when we look at all these counties below 75%. And that's what European data says, not just our Croatian. We know that Slavonia is a total of 35% of the development rate and Zagreb is 120%. So let's all go to Zagreb or Rijeka, so let's keep this whole thing arid and Gorski Kotar and Slavonia and Lika, which is actually happening only that it doesn't go much to Zagreb, unfortunately it goes abroad, goes to overseas countries and Croatia remains a desert country. If we continue this way I don't know what you in the government or what they expect and what do they want from this Croatia in the first place? Or they want us all to really move out and for Croatia to stay as I often can say one of Europe's most common and senior nursing homes. I am convinced that reason will prevail and that we will be able to agree on these matters and that this law does not go into procedure until we agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89397	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. On behalf of the HNS club Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I would like to generally talk about all these topics with less passion than it is common, especially when some colleagues here always and regardless of what they are about side by side of those who like to say protest, do riots in the country and prefer to sit and talk and discuss in the right way how to solve problems. On behalf of the CNS, I will first say that we are actually welcoming the adoption or even the debate that was launched on regional development in the Republic of Croatia because it was not adequately resolved in the previous time. And we have to say that with this Regional Development Act and more than 100 units of local self-government that have never been in a position to help get into that group. And here I must stress that it is the very ones most often talked about here, which are the areas of Slavonia and the north of the Republic of Croatia. And that's definitely something that's good. But here's the speech today about something else, because there's a theme about something else, and that's the problem of the Gorski kotar. I would say that I stand by that the Gorski kotar as such and those 8,9 units of local self-government that the settlements have at a height of more than 600 meters, means where people live and there are up to 1000 meters, there is a settlement in the Gorski Kotar where there is even a cow farm or at least there was one, and I think that under the Regional Development Act or the amendment of the Law on the mountainous area we have to protect the area of Gorski Kotar. And the HNS will not form protest groups but through the Parliament, through its club of representatives and has already opened the debate and will open when one and the other law comes on the agenda, a debate on the models in which the Gorski Kotar will drag into the assisted area in the area of the Republic of Croatia. There are more models. One of the models is that under the Regional Development Act the municipalities and towns of Gorski Kotar are classified in the so-called "regional development". Another group by development, as far as possible. The second model would be to amend the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, to write down specific criteria for determining that status and to enter the local self-government units in the area of Gorski kotar. And the third option is that the government is parallel to the law and regulation, the new indexation office in a way that sees what the weighting on indexation makes the most of the part that brings, or carries, that's 30%, and that's the unemployment rate. In the area of Gorski Kotar, it is simply unnecessary to talk about the unemployment rate, since the ageing population over 65 is actually prevailing in the Gorski Kotar area. Thus, if the index were to be excluded in the Gorski Kotar and for the local self-government units in Gorski Kotar, all units of local self-government would fall below 75% of the development index. Therefore, there are modalities, the Croatian People's Party will continue to seek to speak with both the competent ministry and its colleagues in the Parliament to propose, to propose a model that will preserve special status for those units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89399	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89400	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It should be said that such discussions with the five-minute party in the Parliament cannot solve a single problem, it can only be potentiated and since I have received the mayors and mayors of the Gorski Kotar area today with my fellow MPs from the 7th constituency, that they have introduced us to the problems they face, that they have come to know us that they will be reduced by changing the Law on the mountainous area. The three laws are in the process, they're on the agenda, and these days we'll discuss them. It is about the new Regional Development Act, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on areas of special state care. Therefore, neither of these two existing laws is abolished, they are to some extent changing or harmonising with the Regional Development Act. I must say that MPs, therefore the laws are not passed by the government, as has been said here, she proposes them and that the law will be passed in the Croatian Parliament, that SDP representatives with due care will consider all three laws, that we will take care of areas not only less developed, but also areas where conditions for business and difficult living conditions are difficult. This is also about mountainous and mountainous areas but also about island areas and some other areas that have been affected by war destruction and still after so many years have problems in the development and life of people. So, when it comes to this, we will discuss it, and I would say that just now SDP representatives were initiators of the adoption of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas in the 2000-2003 term and that today's assembly of SDP clubs has feelings and knows exactly how these areas should be dealt with. In such areas that are less developed, which do not have employment, you cannot solve problems only with tax relief because they have no effect unless you have more employment and you have no investment. We need to look for new models to bring investors to these parts, how they can create jobs and hire people who live in these areas. Therefore, here is a very short one, this topic is on the agenda. The Croatian Parliament is aware of what people are looking for in the area of Gorski Kotar, MPs from this constituency are in touch with them and when the debate begins we will surely respect all the problems, that is, all of their initiatives that they have told us here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89401	Thank you, too. On behalf of my independent colleagues, Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89402	The vice president in Istria had eight units for areas of special state care, i.e. from the mountain-mounted area, so it's Lanište, it's Oprtalj, it's Grožnjan, it's Motovun, it's Lupoglav, it's Gračise, Cerovlje and the City of Buzet. And we absolutely support the Gorane here. And I also propose a similar petition in the continental part of Istria. What surprises me, however, is why does Minister Lorencin of the IDS of the Government raise his hand to lift the mountain-mounted area? It's that man from Medulin, but he has a villa in Grožnjan. Well, that didn't bother him. The other thing I'm trying to say is that the mountain-mounted area is not a privilege, it's just a need. The mountain-mounted area is not a privilege, it is an incentive measure. I know that all of us in 2002-2003 were clear that this law would not be in force forever. But what bothers me is just questionable criteria. He can't, for example. one municipality of Lanisce, or the municipality of Oprtalj, or the municipality of Grožnjan anyway, Motovun, Gračisje be excluded or do not enjoy that status which the next day some municipalities will by that basis gain. The principle must literally be either abolish the municipality or let that community live. Of course, only now that Buzet is coming into status, is he actually losing the status of a mountain-mounted area, let's say, to fight not only for that status but for all these small municipalities to survive because it's better to be alone, but a bad companion. On the other hand, I dare say that the entire territorial structure of Croatia is absurd, but local self-government has not only brought legislation or brought not only legislators, centralization but also robbery and the greed of local officials. We had a situation in Istria that one official was tried for about 550,000 kuna but if we add to that increased amounts that were paid on the basis of salaries in other municipalities, then it is about 2.5 million kuna. At least four commissioners... act as commissioners, and they had nothing when they came to these functions, today they have assets that exceed 1 and 5 annual budgets of their municipalities and normally to ask themselves how. Making it clear to the public in private. The government is absolutely wrong when it abolishes the status of the mountainous mountainous area, but sometimes greed and worse than the government's delusion. What is particularly disturbing is the loss of the status of the Municipality of Lanisce. It is the largest Istrian municipality, with the smallest population. She's displaced. In II. World War I, she was an Istrian Cossack. The wounds didn't heal until today. Of course it has to be exceptional. On the other hand, the Istrian County must stop deafening the cry from Cicaria. On the other hand, one..., one Grožnjan, based on the option of such or such postpartum primitiveism simply ran out of population. Zone A, zone B, 70% of the population is moving after the war the Italian route and is not allowed to run out of status. I agree that the entire structure of local self-government should be re-examined from salary to expenditure, it cannot be that there are 5.1 million kunas on the telephones in the County of Istria, on the millions and 400 thousand kuna, on the media 4.3 million kuna, and they simply do not have a naked survival. I said, I call on the Istrians to just join this petition... Croatia is on the other hand, so I will not say a step towards bankruptcy, but it is really financially threatened. In 2, 3 years, two-thirds of the municipalities in Croatia will be led, for example, by one Lanisce or by the municipalities in Italy or France. So, the chiefs will volunteer, and the public will monitor them. If that's not the case, then we'll form as Denmark and England, which means that municipalities and cities will be surrounded. What is best, however, is the establishment of local self-government by the '90s. In the year, Croatia was the most decentralised, the fastest developed, but the local self-government was the most responsible. Absolutely against the abolition of the mountainous mountainous area and all support to the mountains and Istrians who are in the same positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89403	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, time's up. Look at the agenda, the Law on mountainous mountainous areas is not abolished. Comrade Furio Radin, there's no replica when clubs speak after a break. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleague Slavko Linic. And turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89404	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's no problem changing the Regional Development Act, it's not a problem in it, it's one of the problems. The biggest problem is changes in... income tax burdens in which additional units of local self-government lose funds. So everything that's been thought that changes... some can leave out... so maybe local self-government units could replace the state, we don't have that capacity. Why? Because it's taken in cities, municipalities and counties. Therefore, these are several blows that mean less funding to local self-government and regional self-government units and simply cannot be expected to continue the battle for development and investment in these units and this is the biggest problem. That's what the mayors have tried several times to refer government members to that part. I've been there for these conversations and I have to say, for me the biggest problem is the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Greek who doesn't want to think at all and doesn't want to understand what he's doing. He does not want to understand how much damage he is doing by now pushing the laws he must comply with the community, while at the same time saying that the tax revenues of local self-government units should be reduced. To impose new commitments in this budget, you have new obligations, no more participations for employees working on permits, etc. And that's the biggest problem. The Vice-President of the government that covers this whole problem would have to have a hearing, so we have... here in front of the Parliament because none of the government is going to keep them quiet, he doesn't want to keep them quiet. It will be difficult for us to hold a debate in the Croatian Parliament for a simple reason because we will have against ourselves a government, a Greek representative who does not want to hear. He only has his indexes, and it is evident that these indices could have been slightly different with several different criteria so they could respect specific age households, poor population, widespreadness and everything else. He could have put those indexes on, not allowed to put them on, but he didn't want them. Therefore, it is commendable that we have 100 and several units of new ones that we didn't see until yesterday because the old law, but in changing these laws, indexes should have eased those who go out because there's no doubt, I don't think... there's nothing to look for,..., so that's nonsense. Yeah, that's bullshit... law. Whether the time has changed, but it is, there are units that should have been kept. Therefore, we also have a problem with the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and a series of tax laws under which the budget has already been made. These are our problems and it's going to be a terrible blow and that's why it's understanding the people in Gorski Kotar to be afraid. They will no longer be in special status, number two, their incomes are reduced by other legal solutions and under number three, remains to run from Gorski Kotar. It's something that the Greeks just shouldn't have allowed because he's in charge of it. And please, the worst thing I've ever listened to and listening to constantly, we'll have compensatory measures. So my people where there are compensations, what is the European solution, wherever we see these compensatory measures? No, it's you know we'll deal. What compensation? So you have a very simple Law on the financing of local self-government in which it clearly tells how much it belongs to cities, how many municipalities, how many decentralisations, and how much they can solve. No, he's putting in now and the interest income tax, and he's changing the tax common to real estate tax again. Well, my people are totally unprofessional. The professor who teaches what it is regional development is talking about compensatory measures since he cuts some laws if he has to bring them in line, that's the problem. Unpreparedness, incomprehension that at the same time went with a terrible blow, and therefore these warnings. The mountains warn us this is unsustainable, it won't survive. And I don't think we're talking about abolishing the local self-government unit, that's something we need to remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89405	Thank you. On behalf of the New Wave DC Club and National Party Reformist counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89406	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Respecting the fact that representatives of the Goran municipalities came here to Zagreb today to protest against these circumstances that make them logically difficult, I will not look only at Goran in my presentation on behalf of the club, because for Goran, it would be bad for Croatia but it would be good if Goran and the Goran municipalities were the only problem. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Such problems, such areas are more and more realistic in Croatia and in the area like and in the area of Dalmatia Zagora and even in some Croatian islands and in Slavonia area, of course, which slowly becomes in the PPDS set. It is fundamentally not formal, not the one to which certain provisions of the law will apply, but the expanding PPDS in Croatia, which we must prevent in another way, which are reforms. It is not a solution, a permanent solution to these areas in the granting of subsidies, although in the People's Party of Reformists and in the club itself we are concerned about the fact that the municipalities will be financially weakened, despite the fact that the government provides for some funding for us to financially strengthen the local self-government unit in the context of the withdrawal of European funds, and we believe that the issue of solutions to the undeveloped parts of Croatia is of such units of local self-government in sectoral reforms. It is not the solution to the donations I repeat because we will not solve them leaving this space by young people, from a working-age population. When you sit in your car and ride in Slavonia, when you ride in the Licoma, when you ride in the Dalmatian Zagora and the mountain Kotar, a man wonders, is it possible? Is it possible that areas that by the logic of things remained the most environmentally attractive or untouchable that the areas that God has given for the development of tourism, for the development of agriculture, for the areas in which the most quality and most vital resources of a country such as forest wealth are available are increasingly empty year after year? How can it happen to us that from Gorski Kotar wooden construction cut into exports without us importing chairs in Croatia? Is the ladies and gentlemen in that finding, that fact, the answer to the question of what about areas of special state concern? Are the reforms in the industry sector, but the real reforms that will be the right answer to that question? How to answer the question of importing lamb meat, importing junk meat, importing pig meat, driving to Licoma, space is empty. From Udbina to Gračac, not that you can't see a man but you can't see another sheep that was once like a symbol. Where were we? What's the mistake? According to us in this club, the solution is in the real reforms of the Croatian economy and Croatian agriculture and in the conditioning of these units precisely those units of local self-government to withdraw funds from European funds where, according to this year, we are not great at this budget rebalancing which is on the agenda today, we are witnessing that we are the EU that should have been a benefit and turned into a handicap. In 2014 we will pay more membership fees for 500 and some million kunas than we will withdraw funds from European funds. There's an answer to the question of Goran, there's an answer to the question like, there's an answer to the question of Slavonia and the Dalmatian hinterland. And the only 26 million kunas that the Gorans came around today are the least of the problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u89407	Thank you. We'll continue at 15.00 hours of budget rebalance debate. Thank you. It's 1:00.44.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91601	We move to the agenda: - Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014: 1.1. Proposal for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-financial users for 2014 for: A) Croatian Waters B) Croatian Roads C) Centre for restructuring and sale D) Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund E) State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks 1.2. Proposed amendments and additions to the State budget and financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2014 (consolidated) The bill promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of amendments and additions to the State budget, the provisions of Article 211, 212 and 213 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed amendments and additions to the state budget may not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget. In the course of discussions on changes and additions to the state budget, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out by the amendment proposal and the additions to the state budget may be adopted provided that both the reduction of other expenditure and expenditure in the specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this regard, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for the amendment is until the debate is over. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments and budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days from the date of the debate can elapse. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Before you today there are changes and additions to the budget for 2014. I will introduce an overview of certain macroeconomic projections and the changes relating to the income and expenditure side of the budget, and then I will also ask my colleague, the Minister of Health, as a certain part of the payment of debts in health has been requested on the Committee on Budgets, and since the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2013 in 2014 has implemented the recovery of debts in health and since they are in changes and additions to this budget, I will ask the Minister to give specific figures regarding the state of health. Certainly what is going on is the worsening of macroeconomic conditions, and in the macroeconomic environment, they certainly also looked at the negative macroeconomic developments in the Republic of Croatia. the corrections of GDP growth projections, in fact, stagnation, which we have also presented in the Convergence Programme with these changes and additions to GDP growth projections are minus 0.7%. The European Commission has given its 2014 GDP projections, they are minus 0.6%, CNB also minus 0.6%. The latest projections of the International Monetary Fund are down 0.8%. Certainly, the GDP correction in part refers to the movements of gross fixed capital investments from the previous estimate, so that in that part it is certainly still thinner in the economy is still difficult and let's say and most notably its construction sector does not show signs of recovery. If we take six years of unfortunately recession and when you see all these components affecting the decline of GDP, the deep structural changes that are present in economic operators are also reflected in the state of public finances. If you see that from 2008 until 2014, one whole budget has been lost when we talk about the revenues lost by the economy due to the difficulties since 2009, 2010, unfortunately 2012, in 2013, where little of this correction still does not see this trend changing. It is certainly guided and strong pressure on the revenue side of the budget. Thus, the new plan, amendments and additions to the 2014 plan are planned to reduce the total revenues of the state budget from EUR 117.1 billion to kuna 114.5 billion, i.e. EUR 2.6 billion, respectively. The most significant categories of reductions relate to tax revenues where they are reduced by 1.1 billion kuna, and the second part concerns revenue from aid, i.e. the slow reaction to the realisation of investment activities co-financed by the eu programme. In the first part of the year, it was still more significant and it was still on the VAT side, but since the 8th month, the 10th month certainly shows positive trends in VAT and, if it were to be seen, binding economic activity to move and charge VAT, certainly the second part of the year is much better than it is the first part of the year. You know that we also had a change due to the entry into the European Union, and since unfortunately we have a highly import-oriented economy in the payment of VAT that changed the payment regime, also in the first part of the year, the bases were not comparable in the first part of the year to the first part of last year. So when compared to last year's month's 7th and 8th months with last year's months, we see a more positive trend in VAT so that if we can estimate that certain economic activities are trying to return, then we can expect that at the end of the year, then certainly the beginning of next year will show some small shifts, but small shifts in the better. So there won't be any negative trends. Certainly in changes and additions, it means something is decreasing and profit tax. You know we used a strong reinvested profit measure. The Croatian economy has lost a great deal of capital in the 10-year business and when you have a strong policy and central banks around the reservation policy, it certainly affects the small and medium-sized economy, and even large entities can hardly come to credit precisely because of the inability of the collateral, precisely because of the very large amount of frozen property in real estate businesses, and therefore the simple and banking part of the reservation policy has affected the reduction of economic activity in 2014. As for the expenditure side of the State budget, a reduction of total expenditure from 130.6 billion to 130.1 billion is planned, i.e. a reduction of 544 million kuna. The majority of the reductions are actually related to financial expenditures because in 2014 we used more favourable funding conditions, not only on the domestic market but also on the international market. You know that we replaced the bond that came in 2013 and was financed at an interest rate of 6%, that we replaced it by issuing a new bond at an interest rate of around 3.87%, but the yield was about 4% so that the positive impact we had on the European market was exploited. The vault records also fell from 2.4 to 1.5 per year, and Euro from 0.75 to 0.45. As good as that is, as good as this part was for the state, which means that there is a certain surplus liquidity of business banks, that means that this money was supposed to come to the economy and in that part of the effect, although in this part it is now positive for the state it might be even more positive that the money that is somewhere around 6-7 billion kuna is excessive liquidity. In the banking system that it came towards the economy and then that effect on the revenue side of the budget would be multiplicative, much greater than this impact on the expenditure side of the budget for 260 million kuna of smaller interest. There are definitely reduced subsidies. Of the 368 million kuna resulting from the implementation of the decision on the suspension of the implementation of the State budget adopted in April of this year and the other expenditures are also being assisted as they are also being reduced on the revenue side of certain aid from the European Union, their components are being reduced and on the expenditure side. The most significant categories of expenditure increases are expenditures for the employees of 332 million kuna. Although a certain savings of €185 million for individual budget users has been achieved, additional funding has been provided to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for 348 million kuna, the Ministry of Interior 98 million and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth for 40 million kuna. We must also point out that this is how the expenditure planned for employees is nominally less than those for salaries than it was in 2013. One part of the changes and additions to the 2014 budget also relate to the cost of recovery of flood damage. In this budget rebalancing these costs are EUR 280 million, which does not mean that this is the total cost. One part of the cost was passed on to themselves, executed by Croatian waters, one part passed on to themselves in fact Croatian roads. This is the part that went from the central budget, and although the recovery damage goes by the planned dynamics most of the invoices will certainly be exposed to the maturity of the payment in 2015 so that in 2015 we will have a certain expenditure side increased due to the causes of the floods caused. And finally, when given the income and expenditure criteria, the government budget deficit for 2014 is increasing from 13.5 to 15.6 billion kuna, which is 2 billion kuna compared to the previously planned amount or 4.8% of GDP, which is about 0.1% compared to the 2013 achievement. So let's still very much say the difficult situation in the economy, the difficult situation and the domestic situation. So there is still a process that there is no new borrowing process and because of the new policy of booking business banks fortunately we have a stable banking system and you have seen the code... which recently worked by the European Commission that Croatian business banks have passed on to so-called This stress test, unlike the environment where some banks have set aside more than 4 billion euros in neighbouring countries, and which goes through their deficits, is going through the budget of the bank's recovery cost. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] We also saw in an environment in Italy also certain banks that are so-called banks. Under quotes, they fall on a particular stress test, so this reservation policy probably in this context has brought certain positive signals that Croatian banks are stable, well capitalised and let's say in that part the healthiest part when viewed by the total economy. But the cash flows that are supposed to come from business banks to the economy are still becoming a challenge. And when they actually do, that wheel when it starts to spin much faster than what happens today, probably, and the revenue side of the budget will look different, and certainly also a deficit. I thank you. So we'll be in the debate today. I would only now ask my colleague, since she was on the Committee on Budgets today, the other day she was on the Committee on Budgets for a few data on the situation, on healthcare payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91603	Just a minute. Given that the government has not listed the Minister of Health as a representative of the proposings, I ask MPs and MPs do you mind if we speak to the Minister of Health? Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since there were no colleagues of Gjurkovic in the assembly, I did not want to hear from you when you proposed, when you spoke about this item on the agenda for the simple reason that my colleague Gjurkovic is the chairman of the Committee and it is not correct that I speak when he is not in the assembly. So the Finance Committee has asked for a written report, because it is a very complex matter. And about someone telling us some figures, but we will be very happy to hear about the HDZ Club report from colleagues Varga, but also the Finance Committee has asked the Croatian Parliament to receive these proposals and amendments to the Assembly's budget at the fifth level. These are the findings of the Finance Committee unanimously, however, they are not respected. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91605	I now call upon the Minister of Health, Mr. Sinisha Varga, to come to the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91606	I thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Here I will briefly explain to you what's supposed to be what, I've been told that there have been speeches on your board regarding the history of debt recovery in health care. Oh, no? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear it.]] [[/Intruder Stazic: Minister Varga, there are rules like this. Do not engage in a dialogue with MPs, but state, explain the bill. Comrade Shucker, please, too.]] In fact, it is very well known that it was done at the beginning of the term of office of this government that an analysis of the so-called government was made. Clin start di was found to be around 7.4 billion kunas of which was consolidated at any time when the debt of about 5.6 billion kuna was consolidated. And based on this, these analyses were carried out by the Law on the Resuscitation of Institutions, which envisioned a three-year period of rehabilitation of health institutions in the Republic of Croatia at the height of 5.6 billion kuna. What has to be known is that with the implementation of this law and the management of 34 healthcare institutions is included in the recovery programme, the functioning of the entire health system has been parallel to the difficulties in financial conditions. Namely, there has been a case gap, i.e. a particular indifference of the health system for several reasons. One of the reasons was the adoption of the Financial Business Act and the pre-determined settlement which defined payment deadlines within 60 days which was drastically different from the previous period of practice where significantly longer payment deadlines were agreed than 180 days with an accounting formulation of non-performing dues in future periods. In addition, when it comes to this, budget cuts have been made for healthcare by reducing contributions as measures to boost the economy from 15% to 14%, resulting in an additional tense financial situation in the health care system with adaptation and implementation of all debt recovery measures. In addition, we add 5% to VAT introduced from the 2012 transition to 2013 which increased health costs by 350 million kuna and we can speak in total about the total debt from year to year, which was about 2 billion kuna in the functioning of the health system, which was transferred from year to year. And what's taken over as an obligation is that once and for all, a health care system is resuscitated and a health restructuring plan is made through the implementation of the resolution so that, in future times, the need for central government's intervention in the recovery of the health system. For this reason, as of 1.1.2015, the Croatian Health Insurance Office will operate as an out-of- budget fund. And the total debt total estimated to be at the end of 2014 will be on the hospital side of about a billion and 800 million kuna, on the side of the HZZO about 300 million kuna, a total of 2.1 billion kuna is something that we commit to as a health care system that we will recover by the end of 2017 from the own funds provided for in the 2015 budget and projections for 2016 and 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91607	We're moving on to the replicas of Boris Lalovec's presentation. Replical rises the respected vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91608	Dear Mr. Vice President, when this budget was passed, we made it very clear that the budget was planned on completely unrealistic economic assumptions. It was then claimed that it was not true, and now, in fact, from this everything we have in writing and what you've said is quite evident that the budget was misplanned and that actually state finances were mishandled. Now, of course, it's being accused, the government is accusing banks, the EU of everything and everyone else, of course, except itself. However, I must say that by listening to this and looking at these figures today, so on the occasion of the rebalancing three weeks before the closure of the Treasury of the state, I am forced by two concepts of my profession, from medicine. And that's mortuary and autopsy. So, are we here, and are we discussing here that the patient, meaning state finances, died so we just want to confirm by the coroner that he died or that we're talking about an autopsy when we want to establish why the patient or the state finances died? Either way, it's a fact. State finances are bad, they're dead, they're not good and I was just hoping that what you were finally saying when you started talking about positive trends wouldn't happen. I'm afraid you've been infected with the unreasonable and zero-founded optimism of the Greek minister who's convinced us here for three years that there's just been a recovery, and it's not better yet, and we're actually talking about a catastrophic situation that we're just trying to name here right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91609	The reply is from the finance minister, respected Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't like to talk about it ever and Croatian public finances regardless of how they are thought to have died, postmortem, bankruptcy they don't, it won't happen, these are extremely difficult words and would have very serious consequences on Croatian society as well. Because if you know that over 2 million or more people depend directly on the state budget, it means over 50% of the population of the Republic of Croatia depends on the central budget, regardless of whether we have a million and 200 thousand pensioners to whom we pay our pensions and 250 thousand people who work directly in that system, who receive numerous social aids and benefits, these are extremely difficult words and this is a scenario that will not happen. I don't like to talk about it at all, the difficult situation is the same as the difficult situation in our neighbouring countries. Europe is in a long recession, trying to work on a number of measures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a number of positive regulations to relieve the economy, but the economy is still in difficult recession terms. And I said about examples and buildings and the entire banking sector. So, not to look for certain culprits in someone, it's just a situation, this is simply a reality. However, we do not like to talk, so regardless of all this difficult situation pensions are paid, social benefits and the most vulnerable part of the citizens will actually get certain social transfers from the budget. So I ask, regardless of politics, that when we talk about Croatian public finances, the situation should be taken seriously, but exits must be. Because if we say there's no way out now, then we just can't talk any further. So the situation requires certain changes but certainly, it's not as alarming as it is in some of our neighboring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91611	Thank you. At the presentation of Minister Sinishi Varge, the respected Ivan Shuker stands up with a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, the intention of the HDZ Club's conclusion in the implementation of the budget and my debate on the Finance Committee and the conclusion that you will get today is, and I expected when you came to give us the current state. Because this, you told us today what we all know. However, the key story is that there's a big move going on and it's not technically, the release of HZZO from the Treasury. Neither the draft budget for 2015 nor the fiscal projections mentions the key thing, and that is what is the downside of health care today. And just as the Government, and also by the decision of this House of Highs, should call on all those who have claims against institutions financed by the HZZO to do so on 31.12., whether through a form or something, and after 31.12, no one will be admitted to debt again. Because these documents that you brought are just ridiculous. They're opening a big hole and some are talking about a debt of health at this point of 2 billion, some talking about a billion and a half. So he can say whatever anyone wants, but since you haven't said anything concrete about the current situation now, so we're going to explain our conclusion this time and I sincerely hope we get an answer to him. And as for the reduction of contributions to health care, I told them at the time when it was going to happen, but unfortunately, then the story from both the government and this side of the assembly was quite different. We have the results of what we have today and we say it as some excuse is simply ridiculous. But I'm saying, I was expecting when you came to give us at least about the current state. But what all finance ministers will agree on on the one hand, and on the other hand health ministers, it is that no one in this country has yet received a picture of how much really health care is owed but every year the pump is pumped, the pump is being remedied, and we can't get rid of it. Unfortunately, it's like a patient in a shock room with an uncertain condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91613	The replica corresponds to Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91614	I thank you, Mr. President, Vice President. I will again point out that the method of showing debt has changed and the level of transparency has been raised. I found the situation on the first day I performed as director of HZZO I found the final account of HZZO with a plus of 200 million kuna. It was a way of reporting that we found. When we explored what debts were owed to healthcare providers, it suddenly increased overnight to 7.6 billion kuna, consolidated 5.6. It's something that systematically this government is trying to correct the wrong drins that have been found. The current situation I noted, and I said that the way the healthcare system operates has led to the fact that in the sub-planned system and in debts towards suppliers created by the implementation of the Health Protection Act, because of the provision of services over 55 million health services, the Croatian health system provides for our citizens and it has simply made a debt in the sub-planned system that is now projected to be around 2.1 billion kuna by 31.12.2014. This is what I mentioned, and absolutely no one is hiding it, but the plan of functioning of the health care system is that it is consolidated and we are due 60 days by the end of 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91615	Minister Varga, on your opening line, stands up and Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned the problem of recovery, I know it applies to the period before you did, but when you mentioned it, we have to mention it, that's when it was spoken here, and we were convinced that the resolution would be ad1 covered old debts, ad2 by the state taking over management of all, or a large majority of health institutions, which the changed directors then and placed similar directors, changed the Sanitation Board, I suppose the Sanitation Council again from similar people that this system would balance. I was then warning that these new resolution managers will be in the same situation in half or a year as previous directors simply because they have not implemented absolutely no structural reforms in the system and that they will continue, they will only be able to continue to function as they have before, except that they are now similar people placed in all places. And this is what has come to pass, and this is what has come to pass, and it has to be made clear and loud. So, today hospitals, most hospitals don't pay in 60 days, pay more than a year for their suppliers. So nothing for God's sake has changed, except I'll tell the system-like administrations again. And the other thing I wanted to say, it's still not about you directly, but it's about the state budget, if we know it's missing 2.1 billion this year that it's a projection, where are they in the next budget? Where are those 2.1 billion in the next budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91617	The reply to the replica is from the Minister of Health, Sinish Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91618	The fact is that the implementation of the Law on Resuscitation provides for the establishment of a administration appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is indisputable if you talk about similar people, whether they are similar people to transparent and show business, clearly and loudly and of general interest then they are similar people to perform these functions. In fact, the hospital health care system has managed to cut expenditures at an annual level by more than 1.3 billion kuna per year. However, I noted that there are more than 2.5 billion kuna missing at the annual level for the functioning of the health system. So, by internal savings and internal measures of rationalisation and the rehabilitation administration managed to save close to 1.5 billion kuna. Unfortunately, one who is missing until the full functioning of the health system that the Croatian people are used to, is something that is a political decision made, will not be reduced first, there will be no increase in participation and that is something that simply makes a difference between these finances. As far as debt display is concerned, we are very closely working with all international institutions and all debts in the healthcare system are presented under EUROSTAT according to the regulations adopted by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91619	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, President of the Committee, Honored Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 78th session held on 11 November 2014 a proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. We note from the debate that, in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Act, the debate on the state budget or the amendments and the amendments to the state budget are discussed and the projections for the following year which have not been delivered in this proposal. It is also requested to submit a report at the fifth level to ensure that all have detailed insight into specific costs and in which positions the resources of the beneficiaries of the state budget are reduced or increased. I'm also asking what's going on with my friend in health care, what we've been discussing now, in order for things to be downgraded, and what will happen if HZO comes out of the Treasury exactly reflect and knows that they will reflect because the future budget cost according to the ESA 2010 methodology is actually a deficit in this case of planning. It has been announced that this debate will also allow the health minister to report to the MPs. The problem of resource utilisation from the European Funds has been pointed out and the opinion is that this year's budget deficit will be realised as planned by this rebalancing if all the government's efforts to increase economic activity, the activities of reducing the expenditure of the state budget are taken into account. It was also requested that the Ministry of Finance be shown about the positions of the Chamber of Fiscal Policy of the Croatian Parliament, which presented in 8 points the reasons for which there is a high risk that the fiscal rule for 2014 will not be met. And finally from the debate, the opinion was also expressed that planning and compliance with the fiscal rule and fiscal responsibility is one big step towards a total deficit reduction. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided on most votes, 6 votes for and 3 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91621	Thank you. On behalf of the War Veterans Committee, the chairman of the committee, Josip Djakic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen Ministers, the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 22nd session held on 14 November 2014 discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and the projections for 2015 and 2016 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 30 October 2014. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 179. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the part of the amendments and the addition of budgets providing funds for the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, military and civilian peoples, veterans of war and former political residents. The proposal for amending and supplementing the state budget for 2014 reduces the planned business revenues by 2.84 billion kuna, the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets increase by 243 million kuna, the planned operating expenditure is reduced by 76.4 million kuna, and the costs for the purchase of non-financial assets are reduced by 467.5 million kuna. Which means the planned budget deficit has increased by 2.05 billion kuna, i.e. from 13.6 to 15.6 billion kuna. In the head of the Ministry of Defence, planned funds are reduced by 23 million kuna or 2.4% in positions of the National War Memorial Centre Vukovar by 27.2 million kuna, employment of Croatian defenders by 4.3 million kuna, participants and victims of II. World War II and... for 18.5 million kunas and civilian disabled people of the Homeland War for 2.3 million kunas. The funds are increasing in the position of one-off law rights and other compensation from Croatian defenders from the Homeland War for the 19.85 million kuna, the exercise of powerful judicial judgments for the exercise of permanent rights for 5 million kunas and funding for veteran centres by 2.7 million kuna. In the head of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, funds for defence pensions have been increased by 163 million kuna. The result is the re-registration of family pensions achieved under the general rules after the death of a Croatian defender whose death is not the result of participation in the defence of sovereignty, and the pensions for pensions in the fighting positions are reduced... by 17.7 million kuna, Croatian Homeland Army pensions by 5.4 million kuna, and in the head of the Ministry of Health are reduced funds for defence benefits by 8.6 million kuna. Other funds intended to pay the rights of Croatian defenders and other categories, persons from the section of the board have generally remained unchanged. In the discussion, the committee members stressed the problem of constantly reducing the funds intended for the recruitment of Croatian defenders and housing funds despite the fact that the right to housing was extended to defenders with the status of volunteers of the Homeland War who spent more than 2 years in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The issue of public procurement for the Homeland War Memorial Center in Vukovar was also raised, in order to make it more effective and to call a public tender for the renovation of the tower in Vukovar. A lot of criticism has been given on the draft operational programme, competitiveness and cohesion 2014. - 2020, which is... The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, which withdraws money from the European Funds, which does not mention the Homeland War or Croatian defenders, has voiced hope that the objections of the Associations from the Homeland War of Defence who are addressed to it will be accepted. After the debate was held, the committee decided, with 6 votes in favour, 4 votes against, 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and projections for 2015 and '16. with decisions on all those implementations that follow, which are to give consent to changes and complement financial plans, projections of plans and everything else indicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91623	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is reported by fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91624	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, something has happened at this item on the agenda that is part of the business injury. So the documents with budget rebalancing for 2014 and projections in 2015, 2016 that did not come to the Croatian Parliament at all, and thus the parent committees discussed it in such a way. We have changed this on the Committee on Finance after the intervention, and it would be good because of this High House, since the item of the agenda bears the name of the budget rebalance for 2014, but without fiscal projections, that it is known when the representatives of the Committee say that it simply cannot be concluded that it is not a colleague of Djakic but a professional service and ministry, so that there can be no conclusion on the fiscal projections that have not come to this House and could not be debated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91625	I call on committee representatives and committee presidents to file their reports. What the reports say is that I can't know. They got the material on which they came to their conclusions and now they present these conclusions here. I don't see where we hurt the Rules of Procedure. ... I conclude, however, that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the report of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction will be presented by President Zdravko Ronko. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91626	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction discussed the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget for 2014 and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2014. In short, I just want to point out that we have considered this as an interested working body and I want to point out that the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning remains in the same budgetary positions. It was therefore responsible, it achieved a certain part of the savings and those savings were sent to implement the projects launched and to cover the costs. A certain part of the funds is allocated for the recovery of the damages caused in May 2014, partly by direct payment on behalf of the users who are self-renovating houses, and in part for what they decided to rebuild the houses. The use of this first model raised the question of establishing a mechanism by the ministry to control the use, and the funds used and paid to individual users. I would like to point out that after the debate was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly decided by majority vote 7 for and 1 against proposing to the Croatian Parliament to adopt amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and the Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91627	Thank you. A report from the Tourism Committee will be submitted by the respected Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91628	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament at the 33rd session held on 14 November 2014 considered the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2014 as an interested working body in the section relating to the schedule of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in section 0.90 of the Ministry of Tourism. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative informed the members of the savings committee made in total amounting to 5 million kuna. The largest savings of 4 million kuna were made at the site of the grant programme in tourism, 500 thousand kuna was saved at the position of the central information system of categorising tourist facilities, and also 500 thousand kuna on the item of strengthening the tourism market in human potential in tourism. There has been a redistribution of funds within the budget items, and there has been a reduction of 14 million kuna 855 thousand on the items Making a study of Croatian tourism, international co-operation, Strengthening of tourism markets and human potentials, competitiveness of the tourism economy, the Tourism Fund, the Central Information System of the categorisation of tourist facilities, and the Programme for subsidisation of credit programmes in tourism. The increase in the same amount of 14 million 855 thousand kuna was made on the following items, expenditure on employees as regards the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to hire new employees in terms of withdrawing funds from European funds. In turn, the ministry of tourism will employ 12 additional people, and their salaries will be subsidized by EU funds. The increase in material expenditures related to new employees, the increase in installation and equipment, the increase in the item of reconstruction of the rolling stock as regards the State Inspectorate and the current transition of 70 inspectors to the Ministry of Tourism, and the need for additional investment in the renewal of transport means, the increase in information costs, the increase in the material expenditures of international cooperation, and the increase in the items of the Tourism and Competitiveness Fund of the tourism economy. The Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 with the corresponding decisions as set out in the written report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91629	Thank you. Environmental and Nature Protection Committee respected Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear gentlemen ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 as an interested working body. The Committee held a joint discussion on the Amendments and Supplements to the State Budget and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Introductoryly, the Deputy Minister of Finance pointed out that the proposed changes and additions to the state budget and to the financial plans of extra- budget beneficiaries are in line with the budgetary plans achieved during the year. The expected GDP reduction in 2014 by 0.7% will reflect reduced budget revenues. As a result, total budget revenues of €114.5 billion are planned in 2014 which is less than previously planned for € 2.6 billion. Total expenditures are reduced by 544 million kuna and amount to 13.1 billion kuna. The result is an increase in the state budget deficit by 2 billion kuna more than the previous plan and is now 15.6 billion kuna or 4.8% of GDP. The Deputy Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection stressed that the rebalancing planned a total reduction in the division of the Ministry of Environment and Nature by 130 million 536 thousand and 476 kuna and the planned funds for this division are now 472 million kuna. The rebalancing has reduced salary funds since the European Union's funding has withdrawn funds for the salaries of accredited staff in the independent sector for the European Union. In connection with the planned reduction in waste management projects, he pointed out that since the dynamics of implementation did not follow planned in this year, around 170 million kunas from the European Union would be realised instead of the original planned 288 million kunas. In particular, the impediment to the rapid implementation of projects is the present problem of unresolved property-legislative relations, and by declaring strategic projects as in the case of a waste management centre, Piškornica speeds up the process of project preparation. A representative of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund explained that the funds of the Administrative Management and Equipment Fund are reduced by 9 million kuna, funds for environmental protection programmes and projects by 119 million kuna, energy efficiency programmes and projects for programmes and projects for the management of specific categories of waste by 10 million kuna, i.e. A total of 170 million kuna, bringing a new plan for 2014 to billions and 431 million kuna. The assistant director of the Environmental Protection Agency pointed out that the initially planned funds of the agency were reduced by only 72,000 kuna and are now amounting to 31 million kuna. It also highlighted the high degree of implementation and the agreement of the Agency's budget. Following the opening arguments, the debate highlighted that the proposed rebalancing was practically merely a finding and compliance with the level of implementation of the state budget. In this regard, it was estimated that it was too late with changes and supplements that would create a basis for quality shifts. Instead, the deficit in the state budget is increasing. In the section relating to planned funds for the division of the Ministry of Environment and Nature and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, dissatisfaction has been demonstrated by a significant reduction of planned waste management funds, in particular for the construction of waste management centres. It has been pointed out that waste management funds in the Ministry's division have been reduced by 118 million kuna, i.e. 40 percent. The identical situation with funds for this fund-planned fee is so the funds for the construction of the Kastijun Waste Management Centre are reduced by 53%, funds for the Marineska Waste Management Centre by 25%, funds for the Waste Management Centre... lower by 65%, etc. It is estimated that the above is at risk of establishing an integrated waste management system by the end of 2018. The problem of building a waste management centre under the previous agreement with the ministry in charge will be the subject of a thematic session of the committee planned for the beginning of next year. From the point of view of the energy efficiency targets, a reduction of funds for energy efficiency programmes and projects by 32 million kuna has been assessed. This is especially in the context of the highlighted goals of rebuilding public buildings and several residential buildings. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, by a majority of votes, 6 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour, the adoption of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91631	Thank you. I'm opening a debate we're gonna have at the clubs first. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, Mr Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, will be spoken by distinguished counterpart Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say our club's position on the eternal dilemma, whether it's a bad plan, or whether it's the government's responsibility for unfulfilled plans. And anyone who says in Croatia that the bad project was a bad plan, a bad budget, gives the government an apology that carries the full burden of responsibility for the unimplemented plans. The documents we are discussing in this year are the first rebalancing, a convergence programme that should further explain each item that needs to be implemented and now the second rebalancing. These are documents accusing the Government of the Republic of Croatia, each Minister for Unfulfilled Obligations under this document in 2014. Therefore, the government's disresponsibility is the reason for this rebalancing. So let's first read the document that this government sent us. The unfavourable deviation of gross fixed capital investments initially expected to grow, due to the significantly weaker results of the general government investment cycle. Where do we have an economic downturn? We've had zero growth, stagnation predicted, and where do we have a 0.6% drop now? The government is accusing itself. There is no investment in gross capital and this is general government and public enterprises. Is it hard to count what's going on with HEP's investments in the thermal power plant, in hydropower plants? They're gone. Third year of the government's term, no guilt, no priors, no guilt, no plans. Strategic investment and a strategic investment programme for..., we do not have investments in HEP. We don't have them. Do we have any money? We do. We've raised the price to the citizens, we've been there fast, but we've spent our investments, we've put our personnel there, we don't have them. Shall we talk about INA? Three years of silence, no investments in any refinery, no other, no gas and oil wells. That 44% we are the owners, chairman of the Supervisory Board, representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We want to talk about railroads? Last year, the cycle of privatization of freight traffic failed. All this year, it took a quick restructuring or bankruptcy of freight traffic. No, we're hoarding dues and raising guarantees and just recording new debts and government obligations. Shall we talk about the infrastructure? Yes, I remember over 3 billion plans, 3 billion kuna investments in the infrastructure needed for transit jobs and ports, etc. How long are we gonna make it happen? Maybe 900 million. Who's to blame? Recession, crisis, Europe? No, irresponsible ministers and irresponsible board members. I only mentioned three areas that are the backbone of all three years of our optimism in economic growth which means government work. That's the government's responsibility, she was supposed to control it. And now watch out, you have the European Commission's answer that we are irresponsible, that we have not restructured companies, that we do not take care, that we do not take care of our property. I'm not even gonna say last year's adopted privatisation and state property management programs, and what we did. What did we do in 2014? Nothing. And then we're surprised we have a value added tax drop. We can't have it. And then we shyly conclude that since the government's lack of engagement on responsibility, on investments in general, and I would say to the public sector of course that neither the companies seeking the private sector, which are looking for that investment so that he can invest, that he could also create something simple, we don't have any investment in the private sector, either. Because it's gonna be hard to break out into the outside market the one who hasn't restructured his debts yet. And are we surprised that we have the greatest danger that comes along? There's no increase in the number of employees, there isn't one. Well, he can't be without an investment he can't be. And so let's try to figure out that's what we can evaluate the government's work on whether we know how to manage the property. If we know how to manage the property, it is unfortunately public companies where we are the largest owners, where investment in infrastructure and energy without it does not increase the number of employees, without it there is no economic growth. And then there's the biggest problem for the revenue side's budget, just the revenue side. So, while we're at it not to waste a lot of time on public enterprises, let's look at what we did in that second part, where we lack income, revenues related to withdrawing funds from the EU. Okay, they don't have an impact on the deficit because it's income and expenditure. But a billion and 200 million less kunas are less jobs for you, it is less work for Croatian societies that could raise their activities a gross social product. So we're not able to realize that either. Shall we talk further? Well, with a plan or a convergence program, what did we say? In this year we'll get more out of the company, and we look less we're pulling, less. So the government made it clear. We even said, because there's not enough profit in companies that we don't have a shortage of the state budget we're going to go withdraw all the resources available in agencies and in health and education institutions. We didn't realize it either, and we don't plan on it anymore. That's what the government wrote. So the government figured out how to fight for that total income. We do not make this total income, so it is the direct responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we're two and a half billion dollars short. So, on the one hand, we don't manage property, and on the other hand we don't control companies, their behavior, and then we don't have to be surprised. HEP is about to pay for Christmas Day. They've got money! They have not invested and it is the Management Board and the Supervisory Board that does not follow the planning documents that are written here and which should be maintained. What do you say on the expense side? Well, you see, the expenditure side was particularly interesting, the expenditure side was the one that was particularly under the glass and the European Commission, so we gave special attention to the expenditure plan through convergence. I was expecting in this rebalancing process that at least we should be able to figure out why we didn't achieve the planned convergence plan or the convergence programme and try to see if we had an excuse for what we didn't do. So let's get paid first. There I would like to say the prime minister's greatest responsibility is that part of the minister was responsible, he made savings, and part of the ministers for them are documents. So there is neither this budget nor the document we sent to the European Commission. You know, it was said in this year of 1.4, four, eight and ten are abolished. He didn't quit, especially not at the Ministry of Health. Now I'm asking if the government is cheating or not having the strength to do it? That's the problem, because that's why we have overruns. Because if we hadn't planned a reduction of four, eight and ten, we'd have bigger items in the budget so we'd know that there won't be any savings. We also have unequal fees for the transport of employees in public administrations and in the state administration. So it's said it has to be aligned? The government didn't do it again, we didn't get along, so we've got an overrun. So it's specifically said that you'll look after every material cost, every material cost? And were you careful? No, it wasn't. You have investments in new spaces, moving in, editing new spaces. That without any delays, regardless of the programs that say you can't invest there we have, that's what we have. So that's the minister's behavior, that's the government's behaviour where these documents exist, and that's what we have to discuss here. Why doesn't the government account for what she wrote? Why is this budget not listed all items that should have been achieved under the Convergence Programme document? Well, at that point, we wouldn't have an overrun. And now comes what's most important, the prime minister in his statements says we won't cut. Well, this document wasn't made for significant cuttings. This document, when we talk about the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the first rebalancing, was designed to fight for income, to allow with greater income that the Government has a policy not to touch wages, not to touch pensions, not to touch social contributions. It's a document written, nowhere has the government obliged itself to do so. What the government has committed itself is that it will equate wages in the public and state sectors, giving employees in the public and state sectors, and not create differences. And that it will control the very huge differences that exist because the government has not implemented that policy so far. These are the documents that speak in this section. The government has also estimated that no health recovery can go unless there is a total health reorganisation. She wrote the government going to spend it this year, this year. She didn't make it. Again, I would say one of the very clear and loud views that more than 3.4 billion from the budget for the recovery will have a purpose if a reorganisation is carried out. It hasn't been carried out. Also on the spending side is an important issue of subsidies. Yes, a rebalancing subsidy was cut for agriculture. Certain subsidies in HBOR have been cut. But they were also cut in the Railways because it was thought that it was time after 3 years of this government that subsidies should be reduced in the Railways. That freight must earn its own money, that we must reorganize it. On the other hand, we felt that we needed to build the infrastructure from those additional 20 limes that we took on highways and from EU funds, and that there should be no subsidisation there, but investment. And what's most important is that travellers stayed with subsidies to build easy compositions. Unfortunately, we see very different behaviors. Instead of subsidies, we have state guarantees and no, no changes in freight transport in 2014. Which means that apart from the new duets created by freight traffic, we have stopped investment in infrastructure and we have a problem of freight traffic waiting for us. I don't know who, whether this government in the election year or some new government, because obviously the reforms aren't close to our ministers. We've also assessed that social welfare should not be touched. It doesn't matter how touched, and the pension system doesn't matter. But now I'm asking a basic question, with such government movements where there is no battle for income, for managing my assets, which is why Europe is criticizing us and quite justifiable. On the other hand, we see it's hard to cut and not live from cutting, and I'm trying to say that we haven't had any cuts, and every story of the prime minister who talks is not going to cut, so nowhere does it say anything in any document. We're talking about equating income from public and state services. Then the question arises when are we going to solve the underlying problem, which is the pension system deficit? 16 to 17 billion a year is a pension system deficit. Without increasing the number of employees, we will never solve this problem, with this government policy we will never solve it. And that means we're jeopardizing state finances. And that's why I'm estimating this document is about the government's dissatisfaction and the government's great responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91633	Thank you. We've got six lines reported. First, dear colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91634	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Linic, you said earlier in your presentation that there was no investment, but there is evidence of a lie. In fact, looking at the budget that was adopted in the Croatian Parliament is now going to be rebalanced because there is currently no consumption. In fact, VAT revenues are cut by 1.3 billion, and this is the ineffectiveness of the Croatian economy is less estimated to be a profit tax of 259 million. When I say no investment but there are lies so I will remember exactly the prime minister's words in this Croatian Parliament when he spoke in Slavonia. In fact, this rebalancing adds to 50 million kunas for Slavonia and Baranja, so I must admit that I am concerned about the prime minister's health. In fact, looking at the budget is irresponsible borrowing, and we often talk about deficits in the Croatian Parliament. Did the HDZ government make a major deficit or SDPs? Apparently, at the end of the term, we can say there will be a SDP government. By looking at economic growth, we have an economic downturn, after changing income taxes, we will have price instability, and when it comes to employment, this Croatian government has done nothing. So there's no investment, but there's lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91635	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91636	It is evident that the impact of negative personal consumption on the economic downturn that we expect and is not significantly greater than is foreseen in the basic documents of March. Therefore, personal consumption is well assessed. So we're able to estimate how many citizens have purchasing powers, how they can survive. But the biggest problem is that strengthening this purchasing power that should have been for investment in Slavonia, especially in agriculture, because food production is one of the backbones of economic growth that is what the government has not achieved, so we have problems with the increased deficit and the constant problem of debt. And as long as we don't realize that taxes aren't the only revenues in the state budget, especially in one country that still has huge resources in state hands, and that's energy, they're transport routes regardless of what kind, they're water resources and forests. As long as you have it in your hands, you're the one who can secure one-off incomes and a state budget and ease the tax strike on any citizen. And on the other hand, you can hire people to use those resources. And at that moment be assured there will be no unemployed in any part of Slavonia. Why? Is water and forest a huge fortune. But we had a government that couldn't manage them. A government that doesn't see what her job is. Is it not Europe's fault, there was no crisis, there was no problem with the former authorities. Unfortunately irresponsible management is one of the reasons we're poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91637	Second replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91638	Dear fellow Linic, I agree with you this is not a picture of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Lalovac, this is actually a picture of the government's dishap. The Croatian state is at the very top of its own portfolio, at the very top and I think it is not negative but positive. However, it is negative if the property cannot be managed. A state that has such a high level of ownership must think about human policy. Public state-run enterprises are headed by the police that are a complete failure, which is what you were talking about as well. You were talking about keeping an eye on the cost of the ministries, the ministries throwing tens and hundreds of millions into the premises, the nice offices, the furniture, the bathrooms because the places they're in are unsatisfactory. We could work according to our results in the scags without water for what they're worth and how much they can do. This is actually some kind of excuse from the government for not fulfilling plans and obligations. There are no investments, at the beginning of the term of office here in the Parliament we have heard multiple promises that exactly public companies, state-owned companies will be those drivers that will start the entire economy and the Croatian industry, which will also be helping the private sector. What happened? Nothing, there's no investment, that's a missing policy, and the finance minister seems to be a bankruptcy manager.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91639	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91640	Here's an example where we can see the government's unhappiness. One of the revenues in 2014 was the revision of all concession contracts. The concession agreement means managing the public goods of the Republic of Croatia through the private sector, let's also the state-owned companies. We expected that the government simply tasked ministers to analyse everyone, but just all concession contracts, to determine where it is possible to increase the concession reward because they are extra profits, because they are good profits or vice versa, so there are no employees, no investments, no investments, money is being spent irrationally in wages, and I would say personal wealth for individuals. It was the government's job, it wasn't done, there's no increase but, you know, we said we'd raise taxes on excise duties, or excise duties on energy, that we did it overnight, and the citizens paid for it. And that's where we see when the prime minister says we won't burden the citizens, it's not true with taxes without problems, it's more excise on fuel, it's more excise on electricity. But when it had to be analysed, when it had to work, when it had to be hired by the entire administration that the simple resources we have more than we do, not to touch taxes, no voice, no work. And that's the government's responsibility problem, and of course when you don't do these kinds of jobs, then you take care of the offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91641	Third replica, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, colleague Linić, that the lack of investment is one of the reasons for this budget rebalancing, or the absence of any economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. In his opening statement, the minister said that the construction sector is on its knees, that there are no new investments, there are no new jobs, which is clear, given that it is also prepared, that the budget and the laws that were passed in the Croatian Parliament have in certain ways discouraged and made further investments impossible. Me and while you were Minister, I did not agree with the amendment of the Law on Public Roads, which was the law that reduced revenues to Croatian highways and gave them to Croatian railways in part, and to the work of Croatian roads. When we talk about the Croatian Railways, it is a good idea to strengthen the sector to invest in rail infrastructure, but on the one hand we took money from one public company that could invest because it was capacitated both in terms of human resources and in technical terms, we gave to another public enterprise, i.e. HZ infrastructure that these funds, as you said at the end, can neither, nor started with consumption because there is no firm yet prepared to talk about investing in Croatian railway infrastructure. On the other hand, especially the paradox, the fact that we have strengthened this same Croatian road law by giving them 20 limes from the fuel, and on the other hand we reduce the expenditures of the Croatian roads by 715 million kuna, a third of the Peljega Bridge. Thus, with this rebalance of the Croatian Road budget, there are 715 million kuna left on the spending side, and these are the ones that were to boost investment, incentivise the construction sector. I'm saying, we cut them by a really significant amount so that since the investments we've prepared him through the plans, there can be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91643	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91644	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, let's be honest. Personally, I feel guilty for being the finance minister, who has also proposed a reduction and accepted a 60 lip reduction to 20 castings for highways. But the government had its own program that was clear. Monitoring will take place in the first half of 2014. Therefore, if a private society assumes responsibility for the management of highways, we do not give it any more excise duty. 20 lipes were possible in contrast to total debt and possible revenues from monetization. On the other hand, we needed money in the Croatian roads, we don't have enough investment, too many dead. It simply needs money in Croatian roads, not enough from existing revenues, so we expected to raise investments and we saw that it was possible then to hire a construction operation. And the railroad, so let's be honest, that 80% is co-financed by the European Funds, you need 20%. You don't have that 20% in the state budget, you don't see it. You have to create revenue. We created them with those 20. Therefore, 40 limes as bread need Croatia for new investments in both roads, but for those of the state and regional and railways. Not in the highways. Unfortunately, we need to get rid of these debts. It was a program. What's done of it? Nothing, it's not a restructured railroad, the money we've given is for the unreal business of freight traffic, for the due diligence of freight traffic for losses in, I'd say, infrastructure. Even infrastructure does not pay its commitments for those 900 million investments this year. And on the other hand, what's the problem, there won't be investments in Croatian roads, we can see it on the rebalancing because simply money is not spent because the deficit needs to be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91645	Followed by the replica of the respected Croatia of Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91646	My colleague Linic, with all due respect, has stated that there are no investments, no plans, no restructurings. I'd just like to remind you that not so long ago, actually just a few months ago, you were the minister of that same government, that you brought a series of measures, of course a lot of them got some results, some didn't. Here, I'll remind you that the reduction measures from 15% to 13% did not bring the desired effect, that the economy did not react in the desired way, but what I would like to stress, you are now saying that there is nothing. So once again, there are no investments, no plans are implemented, no restructuring is carried out. But I'm saying, not so long ago, all the things you said about not having fun right now, you said it was going on, just not with the dynamics you wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91647	The replica matches Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91648	Well, obviously, while I was a minister, I thought very much about the private sector, and that's why the Ministry of Finance succeeded in passing out the pre-fashion settlements that serve so that the financial problems in the private sector would be resolved as soon as possible and we would bear the burden of the job. So, we gave up the program and we worked. In this, the Ministry of Finance differed in many ways from other ministries. When we talk about the contribution, so I would ask you people to try to figure out when HZZO is in the state budget, whether the contribution is 13 or 15, it doesn't matter, for the health balance and the health ministry. Why? The missing funds shall be taken from other revenues. Therefore, 13% is something that is very important for this private sector because, as you can see, all of us are looking at these exporters, only exporters with 15% of your health contributions will not be competitive, therefore it was a measure to settle the necessary resources in the budget of the Ministry of Health and it does not depend on 12, 13 or 15% of the contributions. Those were clear messages. And also, the Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Economy has strongly insisted that capital in companies be retained to consider all retained profits reinvested even if there is no investment because we knew that there was no own funds, and without their own funds they were not able to borrow. Yeah, those were all the measures we pushed as the Ministry of Finance to support the private sector. And that's why I'm just asking you, the burden of the private sector with 2% of new health contributions is the possibility of spending a little easier on the budget and burdening the businessmen. It's a bad move for me, even though I suggested it myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91649	The last replica, dear Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Linic, I agree with what you said on behalf of your club in particular I agree with the part where you claim that... state finances and the wider economic situation in the country is, above all, the responsibility on this one I would say to the irresponsible but incompetent government and especially those observations are important and important to come from you who were recently Minister of Finance in that government. From the first hand, you had the opportunity to see how this government works and works and that in three years of its mandate it did nothing to stabilise financial opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular it did nothing in the development. And therefore we cannot expect in the next year how long until the end of this government's mandate that anything will change. If these observations had come from this left-hand side then it would have been politics, then it would have been an attempt to collect cheap political points. And that's why I'm particularly glad that you're really critical and factual and based on the work of this government over the past three years, and it's clear that this government is above all I would say is incompetent, and then this inability results in irresponsibility. So first the incompetent and then the irresponsible I'd say before the irresponsible, then the incompetent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91651	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91652	Which times when you're part of the team you speak within the team, when you're not part of that team, you speak publicly. So I'd say I haven't changed much, whether I'm a minister or I'm not a minister, it's just a question where I was talking. And from the first moment you realize the lack of this government is how to manage the vast assets of Croatia's Republic of Croatia and Croatia's citizens so that the tax burdens will be reduced both to businesses and citizens. But I'd say first of all the prime minister failed. You know I was also Deputy Prime Minister at the time of the late Ivica Racan, listen to the IMF here, stand by the arrangement but he decided to hire a private sector through the highways. There were no plans, there was no money, all that started, economic growth was over 5.6%, but he was head of the commission. Well, you know, then we've rated the railways as a new infrastructure project, let's throw it at Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's head. He held only one session and has no investment in infrastructure. and infrastructure is important, above all, for the port facilities that we have on the Adriatic, huge ports, investments in these ports. We could have recovered all this with a new investment where 80% of the funds would have been refunded from European funds. And that just shows you that people are guilty and guilty at least in this part of the prime minister who's held an inaugural meeting at the head of this whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91653	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So when the government doesn't stick to its own acts, then it forces the Ministry of Finance to make a technically bad document, for the simple reason that those who didn't keep their own acts and their own promises didn't want to see it in the budget, and that's why we got this small office without the fifth level. It makes it virtually impossible to even read how much VAT revenue is, how much tax revenues are due because it does not exist in this document. And colleagues and colleagues, this is a document based on the 2015 budget. If you don't see anything from him then he simply wants to hide that he won't do anything in 2015. And those are the facts. Just like the fact that the government is not holding the ESA 2010 methodology because it would give a completely different picture. You heard the Minister of Health, he heard it by road, and the Minister of Finance in the woods. Remember here the big debate about helping flooded areas do you think that act we brought here, is it being translated into the budget? No, you don't. It has been said that the revenues from legalizing the facilities will go automatically to help the flooded, you do not. You have an increase of 100 million and it's the only document with an increase in MUP, health and defence by 6 million of their positions from which you see what it was given for flooded areas. And remember what was the proposal here on behalf of the HDZ Club to be defined by the law on budget implementation to be seen. So this document is exclusively that you do not see the failed promises of this government from what counterpart Linic spoke about the convergence plan, and about the Committee on Fiscal Policy I will talk more about in an individual debate because these 15 minutes a man does not have time to process everything. But what does this rebalance tell us about this government? And these are the facts that simply cannot be escaped, first of all they have made one total wrong tax policy and with this domino effect by amending tax laws, what is happening is what happens. In the past three years, we have about 37, 38 amendments to tax laws, and our income side is catastrophic. Why? Because there was no political power to let one part of it, no matter how much I disagree with it, end up. You have the effect that you have, which is constantly burdening the citizens of Croatia, and when we add in that part that we have raised 25% of the electricity price under cover that HEP will be the bearer of economic development, this year even the great hydroenergy situation has not led to the fact that the electricity is cheap. We still have high electricity, we pay to whom it is not clear to the dear God. The inability to withdraw funds from the EU, we constantly boasted more and more of this, comparing pears and apples and using pre-accession funds and funds, in order to ultimately have to admit that you will not withdraw a billion and 200, that they may be neutral in the revenue of the state budget, and that many funding could be made from these billions and 200 which would not be the revenue of the state budget and which would certainly generate the development of certain economic zones in the Republic of Croatia. But the easiest thing to say is that it's neutral for the budget, for the budget deficit and to stay on it. But colleagues and colleagues, this billion and 200 unpunished, what's going to happen to us in 2015, I repeat, and that's what I was saying when I did the budget, leads us to the fact that we in 2016 won't be able to withdraw 600 million for administrative reasons. We won't be able to pull back, and those are facts that are now evident. Inability and the creation of a positive entrepreneurial climate. If someone doesn't open up space to private capital, if all those who have state enemies, if treated in one way or another, then you simply can't expect them to invest and that they will be the generator of economic growth. With the great legal uncertainty that is present in the country, above all because of frequent changes in the law, and above all because of frequent changes in tax laws, then the logical thing is that whoever gets away from Croatia is simply not coming to invest where it is not welcome. That's the facts. And what may be crucial, which is the political unwillingness and ignorance of this government for reform. The expenditure side of this budget cannot be properly and permanently regulated without structural reforms. That's the facts. Neither has a reform of the state administration, nor has a reform been implemented in protest, nor has health reform been carried out, and ultimately, the Government itself does not stick to what it has promised the European Commission to do. And what has gotten us all together? It led us to a 0.7% drop in GDP, led us to a reduction in VAT revenue from a billion and 300, to get 260 million, a contribution of 238 million, and of course led us to the fact that we did not withdraw a billion and 200 million from the eu funds. And what has increased, is exclusively an increase in the tax burden because the increase in excise income is not the result of this or that but the only consequence that the government has raised excise duties. And you simply when you pour a liter of gasoline into the car, when you include some consumer in the house, when you smoke simply you charge the state budget and the government doesn't have much credit for it, it's something that comes with automation and it's the only item that's improved. So you could get out of this order to this government, gentlemen, don't get involved in anything, resign, this country will work better without you than it does... and you can see it through these tax revenues. But what's worrying and just doesn't have a dose of politics, or anything but facts, which is when you look at the expenditures of the state budget. Something that simply a reasonable man can't stay cold and can't watch it with his eyes closed. The only place she fucked were... and... Only. So I'm going to start with the Ministry of Finance as a 261 million cut. But let's go through this budget a little bit, no matter what it's not on the fifth level, let's look at it second and third, and we'll only see through two items where that reduction happened. Because if, until yesterday, the increase in HBOR's core capital and co-financing of favourable loans was one of the key levers of this government, not the finance minister spoke of it, so were parliamentary representatives, the economy minister and the entrepreneurship minister. It's a key lever. We will launch the economy of the Republic of Croatia with this. And look at this budget, at the end of the year you have a reduction in therefore preferential loans by 150 million since the co-financing of interest and you have a reduction in the share capital of 250 million. And about that second reduction, I'm not going to steal my time now, I'm going to talk when I talk about the State Budget Act because you have one position that doesn't affect the spending side of the budget because it's some kind of credit relationship, but there were significant funds according to HBOR that are also shrinking. Economy, I said 107 million kuna, and now we're coming up with that famous ESA 2010 methodology. Was that 107 million this year supposed to be given to shipbuilding, in fact 111 million or not to be given 111 million? If they were not to be given, then it is an irresponsible proposal for the budget of the Minister of Economy, and if they were to be given why they were not given because it creates a budget deficit in the following year or we will discuss it when they start hitting us next year but it is as it is. The ministry of crafts and entrepreneurship, many praises, but look again at 142 million. Is it someone else's fault or someone said it again, so we'll give them subsidies because what people didn't get won't get picked up to cut them down. But does one government that has a systematic economic policy, which has clear goals and clear instruments to achieve these goals, can it do this at the 12th month? He can't. Because in the 12th month that this government wants to reach these goals and that it wants to use the instruments to reach those goals, it would spend it. Juraj, Janko, Marko would know that they were based on some kind of tender, regardless of whether they were going to file for the first post office application or not, and we couldn't talk about it at the 11th month. But to one government that has no goals, which doesn't even know how these goals will come to pass, it doesn't know the instruments, it just happens what happens. Strengthening and competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, that's what I said, 121 million. Of course, our farmers fuck them all the time, 127 million again. The Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Transport combined a reduction of 280 million. These are the two ministries that help local self-government units build infrastructure so they can be the basis for the opening of some plants tomorrow. Because without infrastructure, there won't be a single drive. And if you from the Ministry of Regional Development, you take money from the Ministry of Transport that was supposed to help local self-government units that don't have money, and then you cut off the income tax bill as you cut off, then it's clear that you didn't create a prerequisite, that someone who wants to come and invest in Croatia tomorrow has a chance to come and invest. These are simply related things, and they cannot be escaped. The D.A., what I'm about to say, I don't want him undressing in political waters. Remember that play at the government session. The minister thanks the president for the increase in the 2015 budget. And it would all be wonderful and wonderful, they honor and thank each other very much, but they did not say before that they had taken 23 million of these poor Croatian defenders. Therefore, gentlemen, you give them nothing, you don't even give them back what you took from them, and that's the truth. But I'm saying, public television and some others are showing it like that, so whoever doesn't see the budget turns out the way it is. However, the Croatian defenders' budget is shrinking by 23 million kuna. The Ministry of Education is a special story. Remember, in 12 months and 1 month, the HDZ Club, and we personally warned Minister Jovanovic that the proposed budget would not have enough funds to pay and that it would not have enough means to transport, that transport that did not pay at 12 months, so he paid it in the first one and assured us all that by the end of the year he would have enough funds. And you know how much that's enough money that at this point the Ministry of Education is missing 107 million on transportation and 340 million is missing for wages. However, what I cannot agree with, in fact, is that the HDZ Club is actually not in a position to reduce the position of 207 million kuna for scientific research. So do we really think in Croatia that without scientific research and science we can talk about economic progress? And yet, did anyone for scientific research plan that money just enough to calm the scientific community, the academic community with a fig in their pocket, or is that the cost that's being passed over next year? Also that little money of 98 million for school equipment. So again, units of local self-government are shrinking and... And when we add an increase in pensions of 335 million, we come to the evaluation and evaluation of the European Commission which is not painted or HDZski, either as well or as one that simply gave the Government another yellow, i.e. Red card. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They failed to meet their own measures. So this year Croatia will also have a decline in GDP, will also have an increase in unemployment, will also have a deficit of 19 billion kuna and with these payment delays you heard the Minister 2 billion and 100 in healthcare that at this point there is no debt in any document this year or next year. The deficit, along with this payment delay, is rising to 21 billion kuna and that is a fact and will be such a deficit in Croatia next year. And you know what, we can use both this and that methodology. Croatian citizens will pay these 21 billion interest debts for the next 10 years, and that is a fact, so we used such or such a methodology. When we add that public debt has reached 82% of gross domestic product and when the Commission warns that the health minus is one of the most neural points in the state budget and that no movement of money... It won't change anything, and the government isn't responding to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues, this is unfortunately something that is behind us, something that finds out that unfortunately this government doesn't know what it's doing. However, the greatest tragedy for all of us here who will raise our hand in or against. But especially for Croatian citizens, because here is a bad basis for entering 2015 and 2015 can certainly not be with this deficit that the government has proposed. In 2015, it will have a deficit of 23 billion precisely because of the government's unpreparedness to bring public finances into line with this act. And that's why the HDZ club can't possibly support a document like this, I'm saying that because of the lack of respect for its own actions, it led to extremely technically poorly designed material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91655	Thank you. Now we move to almost 20 replicas. First, Davor's Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you encouraged me to react because you said this was a document from which government policy cannot be read, i.e. to hide the devastating results, and in that part, I couldn't fully agree with you, because you were mostly talking about economic resources, so I took the liberty of saying something about the State Administration's portfolio that we were showing that it wasn't everything you said. In particular, there is a significant reduction in the position of the Ministry of Administration of State Administration at the level of state offices in the counties. If we still have our memory served this same government has reached with one law almost to the vote, two readings have passed, talk about rationalising the network of public administration offices that were to connect with 20 in 5 with the unknown headquarters of any of these offices. First they were called one, two, three, four and five, and then they lost that noble name. They are, they are reduced funds for both salaries and staff costs. For reasons unknown, however, the law has not yet experienced this final voting phase, and it is necessary for us to bring it in. We therefore show that the government has even gone with some projects quite far, but then it has stalled for completely unknown reasons, and it has interpreted the merger of county offices as an extremely smart one of the measures that will reduce costs. Now pay costs are reduced but offices exist at the same amount as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91657	Thank you very much. Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91658	Thank you very much, young man. Well, it's precisely on the trail of the government's failure to carry out its own acts has made it the budget it is. That it does not show everything and perhaps one pompously announced structural reform of the state administration is that it will not be called something one way or another definitely in practice has not been implemented. But that leads us again to how long there are ultimately some delays in payment, how many non-payments are transferred next year, and what will be the real deficit of the state budget. So this government is going to remain specific about it. Maybe it'll be able to patent someone else. Because saying that these are the most transparent public finances is just ridiculous. Because if you inherit a fifth-level budget and it practically shows the smallest cost, and you return it to a second or third level precisely because you conceal your own incompetence and ignorance of how to carry out what someone wrote to you on paper, and these are the huge intellectual services that we have in the state budget, however, the question is often asked what the writer wanted to say? That's how someone wrote some papers, but apparently he didn't write until the end how it should be done. And, unfortunately, the state administration has stayed in some kind of empty space again, and you know, colleague Mlakar, who's going to pay for it all together? Croatian citizens. Because they're simply not going to get the documents they need from those who don't pay from what they pay taxes. Because every Croatian citizen swears to pay taxes then pays for the financing of certain institutions that we will need to produce at some point with some kind of document based on which they will exercise some of their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91659	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91660	Dear fellow Shuker, you said at the beginning of your speech, you can't even see what's supposed to be in the budget for next year. As an expert, I'm asking you a question, and that's what all the public are interested in, especially in local self-government units. In fact, the finance ministry is required by law by the end of 6 months to provide units of local self-government with guidelines for budgeting for next year. Until today's unit of local self-government didn't get it. Here, at this point we hear whistles from the outside, coming the Gorans who don't traditionally protest. They were seized by funds, taking down the status of the mountain-mounted area. Mr. Linic spoke about a strategy that was related to the cost of excise duties but the government did not do it as planned. The question is always the same, what is this government doing, what projections does it have, what plans it has, where are the investments? And why do we even bring anything when we don't even bring it alone at the moment when the end of the year we don't even know what the budget is going to be, or how the units of local self-government on the ground are going to put together their budgets. After an emergency procedure, we pass the Tax on profit, income tax. How will they reflect, and what can be realized in the following year? I have a feeling that here someone is playing those ringe-ringe-ray games, so who cares, who's egging but mostly everything that's being done for the budget and other investments in the entire Republic of Croatia or the local self-government unit, or this government can't plan or know. Just like you said these documents just can't see what's waiting for us all in the next year and years. And if it keeps going like this, it's gonna be really hard and scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91661	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coliar Klaric, therefore, makes sense that the government is giving guidelines to move not units of local self-government but also budgetary users of the state budget. However, when you look at the government guidelines in 2015, 2016, 2017, an explanation of why income tax is reduced, then the question really is why do we need such guidelines? Because the government has been trying for 5.6 months to explain to Croatian citizens how amending the Income Tax Act will increase their wages. And you know what she wrote in her own fiscal economic policy guidelines for the next three years? The amendment to the Income Tax Act will reduce labour prices. If labour prices are to be reduced, this means that this reduction in tax burden will not be paid to citizens but to the payer. So that's one contradiction. And also when you take units of local self-government 2.5 billion kuna and you want to compensate for it with a series of measures then it would be logical that these measures practically go into one package, to discuss and to see their fiscal effect, and not to practically head the units of local and regional self-government at this point do not know at all what parameters the budgets will do for next year. And when we know that the budget structure of the local self-government units has a large part of the incomes that are related to expenditures and it is practically impossible to use for something else then what is financed from income tax, which is preschool age, primary education, secondary education, health care, social welfare, fire departments and associations is practically killing what is fundamentally the concern of the unit of local self-government. And that's one big irresponsibility of the government because it's ruling its ignorance to reach some goal and to do the instruments, unfortunately, forcefully descending on local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91663	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91664	Dear fellow Shuker, yes, this rebalancing is another testimony that the government's plans have been missed. You were talking about the government's promise, with an increase of 25%, that this increase will go towards HEP's investment. However, there is no investment. Why is there no investment despite HEP having money? Because they're, like I said before party arrest. The head of HEP was first appointed by the man who destroyed the chair factory, the man who destroyed the factory 100, 200 people and now he should be the driver of industry in the Republic of Croatia, so it's funny, it's actually a retreat for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You were talking about legal uncertainty, that Croatia is bypassing a large port precisely because there is no legal certainty, not only tax security, but legal certainty. Who will you complain to in Croatia when the proceedings in commercial courts last 10, 15, 20 years? Who will invest in Croatia? State administration reform, who's gonna feed so many people? Everyone swears, and your party, there will be no layoffs, the goal is not layoff, rationalization is the goal. A reform of local self-government, no reform of local self-government, although announced it would be. And now the question, which you asked, is, can this government implement a new budget from the crisis in Croatia in 2015? This government can only take us out of November to December, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91665	A fellow Shuker answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91666	My colleague Vuksic, not even that. Because this government is the only thing that goes with automation as much as it does, but that's where it breaks down, and that's the best story with the price of electricity and gas. Remember the increase in electricity 25%, it takes an investment bit, there's nothing to invest. Remember the 35% increase in the plan and then someone remembers saying we're going to cut the price of gas and it's going to go down anyway. And you know what happens? In the lightest winter of the last 30 years, in the first month of 2014, the gas bill, for heating and hot water is the same or bigger in all households than in the previous year when you remember when it attacked half a meter of snow and that people practically couldn't leave the house. And then what happened here, whether our gas price went down or the calculation methodology, and then we got to that 35%, so the real increase is 50%. It's a fact you can't escape from. And legal certainty is something that at this point may be the cancer of Croatia's wounds and perhaps the biggest problem for foreign investors. Not one decision of this political nomenclature and that period 2000-2003, and now it has gone towards a retroactive burden on entrepreneurs, particularly the private sector. And it creates an extraordinary legal uncertainty. Remember, too, the key investment laws, this one, the one, the law, glamorously, like this, in three months, despite warnings from this side of the assembly and this central part that it cannot be applied, it does not want to react to that, and then it goes into changes, changes. And you know what the result is? That nothing's going on. Look at the financial plans of extra budget users, unfortunately we never discuss them because in 15 minutes it is impossible to discuss them and the state budget. What's shrinking? It reduces 800 million Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91667	Thank you. Djuro Drinker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91668	Thank you, my friend, thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you've made it clear everything about the cause of these problems and the reason why you rebalance the budget. Among other things, you mentioned the government's inability to do anything about withdrawing EU funds and warned about the problems ahead. So, we agreed by partnership agreement with the EU that we would be able to withdraw in the period 2014-2020, so we have more than 10 billion euros at our disposal. 2014-2020, we are at the end of 2014 and we are witnessing among other things one fact that the rural development programme was returned with 377 remarks, the end of 2014. This means that it is entirely questionable that it is actually not known, and in the current hour last week, the Vice President of Greece did not know when the programme would be accepted at all, and when the competition under the Rural Development Programme would be opened, or when rules without which there is no possibility of calling the competition at all. So this year is also completely lost, and what you said next year is completely questionable when you will definitely start any competitions. This is a catastrophic situation and the question is raised and I ask you to comment, if you can at all be at risk of suspending European funds at all, precisely because of the state budget situation and because of the government's inability to control the state budget and to establish fiscal stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91669	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow drinker, so you touched what was the continuation of what I was saying about EU funds. So Croatia has one unfortunately terribly negative, terrible negative trend, which is that instead of reducing deficits, it has an increase in deficits. The fact that you are administratively reducing yourself will show you what this budget proposal will see next year in this period. So, the European Commission has been very kind to us in all its first reports. However, in the given month, if it sees that this government is unable to implement what it has written itself to implement, unfortunately the final measure may be to suspend EU funds. However, as long as one government says, it says that the EU is a cost, and above what it pays it practically still has the right to withdraw, it speaks exclusively of itself. Because if someone gives you the opportunity to withdraw and you know it before you come to power that only in such a way can you withdraw the funds. The European Commission does not suffer Croatian improvisation. And it just has to be clear for everyone. And when the Greek Nobel laureate understands that, then it will be easier for everyone, is improvisation not available in EU funds. The rules are clear, and when you look at seven billion or how many have already tried to withdraw next year, it clearly says that unfortunately all those hoping for EU funds will not benefit at all next year. And that's the key problem. A lot of economic problems, a lot of problems in agriculture, a lot of infrastructure problems would be solved if we were to withdraw more effectively from the EU. A lot would not be a problem either with the state budget or with local self-government units or out-of- budget users, and when we start thinking in such a way, rather than hitting on hundreds of millions or billions, and when we start in this House in some real and correct way, then the results will be much better, for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91671	Thank you. Frano Matušić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Shuker, this subject of the European Funds, i.e. the withdrawal of funds, is extremely important, so I will continue on the subject. We have been warning the Croatian government for 2 years that it has not prepared to withdraw funds from the European Funds. They did not bring in the basic documents which are a prerequisite for the withdrawal of those funds. Therefore, in order to withdraw funds, a strategy should be adopted in all areas. The strategies came only before the end of the second quarter of this year, and these strategies were to be adopted before we joined the EU. So before July 1, 2013, when we became a full member. This was to be done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, however it did nothing, and of course only now is the signed partnership agreement, but there is an operational programme to be signed, but accreditation is also needed, a colleague of Popijac spoke well, but it should also mention the accreditations that need to be obtained in order to withdraw the funds. So, quite likely that the first euro we could withdraw in 2013, that perhaps only in the 2nd half of next year might we withdraw, perhaps. How much of these funds, I think it is clear enough for everyone to say that if you have over a billion euros available from the European Funds, you can certainly encourage the Croatian economy with these funds. And finally I would just like to say something, we all the time, of course, as an opposition talk about the incompetence of the government, but what to say after... these governments, Mr Linic very clearly said how incompetent this government is and that he cannot respond to the tasks that are.... What do you say to that? Not a single replica from the SDP club because it's true, exactly what he's been saying and it's exactly what we've been saying for the last three years. So, this government is completely incapable of running the Croatian state and unfortunately we will have problems...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91673	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91674	Yes, colleague Matušić, in fact, the key thing is that political will is needed to implement reforms. And I'm going to say something now... you might find blasphemous, finance ministers, no matter where they go, think very much. Finance is like that and you can't go there much left or right. Unfortunately, however, their political strength is always much weaker than consumers, we have in public finances what we have. However, I would return to EU funds. So, you mentioned several administrative steps, Croatia made only the first to withdraw funds. Now, if we're going to do it next year, this year we're definitely going to lose a billion and 200 million, next year we're going to withdraw practically 4.5 billion more than this year, and we still have to make four steps, best talks about who says you're going to do it. However, I don't care what he says, so I hope most of the other fellow MPs will pay for it by Croatian citizens. Through such a high budget deficit, entrepreneurs who will not be able to come up with cheap funding that with quality ideas, projects participate in the European market, will pay Croatian farmers and ultimately, Croatian bonds will be paid because many of these projects will be financed from tax revenues or from some other taxes. However, when we talk about the Peljesk Bridge and the EU funds, so let me know, we're all driving along these roads to the state, is it really such a condition that at the end of the year Croatia's roads shouldn't have invested 800 million to raise traffic safety? Because colleagues and colleagues, is it really such a great situation in the construction sector, first of all, I mean in road construction, that they should not have been given 800 million jobs, that they employ several thousand people and that, for some reason, some change changes in this negative... in GDP. If you have money, if you have a plan, so why don't you just take part in GDP growth yourself, no matter what...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91675	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91676	Thank you very much. Namely, fellow Shuker, you just said that this government has provided some EU funds in 2014. This is what the caps from the previous periods and from the period 2014 to the - 2020. Croatia has not withdrawn a cent. And we see from the rebalancing that the Ministry of Regional Development is going to reduce the amount of 94.7 million kuna. I'm not going to go into the Greek Minister's evaluations, but whatever he was estimating, he missed every time. Thank God he's not a meteorologist. But looking at the projections for 2015, '16. and '17. the year, if you've been watching, EU funds 2015 4.3 billion, 2016. 6.5 billion, 2017. 8 billion and 454 million kuna. Well, that's an impossible mission. Why? Because there has been no decentralisation in Croatia, there has been no regionalisation, we have uneven development of the Republic of Croatia, and with the new Law amending income tax, the possibility of local administration units will be reduced even more and there will be no participation in pre-financing, let alone funding funds in the coming years. So, looking at these desires, looking at the possibilities, I don't think it was absolutely necessary to cut the Ministry of Regional Development, but what we can have a chance at right now is the period 2014. – 2020, and until now, the June Government has not withdrawn for 2014. – 2020, therefore we did not make preparations, and with this reduction we clearly suggest that... The resolution ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development, is not a priority, and we see in fact that most of the funds are being withdrawn by local and regional administrations who have welcomed this, but with the change in income tax, will go to their impeccableness and reduced fiscal capacity and opportunities for the next period. Therefore, these projections are unrealistic for the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91677	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91678	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bubalo, I'm glad you guys touched on the EU funds theme first of all that you're coming from the county that might be amongst the best or the best, but it also signals something else. The units of local self-government that were organised and prepared, which were then used by the Ministry of Finance to build their own personnel and their own infrastructure for project building, are now successful and this is the result that is seen in these three billion in the budget this year, is not the result of this government. Those who didn't do it are unfortunately in a position like this government today. They didn't prepare, there's no one to make quality programs and their fate is what it is, it's the fate of this government. Therefore, we do not need to politicise this much now, we see this in concrete examples of the unit of local self-government that took part in the withdrawal of pre-accession funds in that position is our Government. And I repeat, 2016. 600m euros will not be able to withdraw for a reason, colleagues can write paper suffering everything, but they will not be able to withdraw for these reasons which are now evident because if this situation is in 2014 in 2015 it will not be much better, so administratively these steps were spoken of by a colleague, Popijac and counterpart Matušić, who will not be able to end up being able to withdraw what is planned by the end of 2016. But all happiness stands out for someone for a few months, and then they won't be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91679	Next replica, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91680	Thank you, Vice President. You're saying that there's no reduction in the expenditure side without structural reforms, and we can't disagree with that. So it doesn't need to be a minister to know that, in order to be clear, every student of the first year of the economy knows that. However, every reform takes time, time is an extremely important factor in reforms, so for each, and even the slightest reform, you need time. Your governments had that time on the line, unfortunately they didn't even start reforming it. We, this government started a series of reforms, but what I'm repeating is what we need is time. You're attacking this government because the attack is the best defense and the fact is that on your own not once you knew how to say that you didn't start reform because you wanted to preserve social peace, so you were afraid. And this budget today as it is and this huge budget deficit and huge public debt are the consequences of your indemnity, are the cumulative consequences of both criminal conversion and privatisation and systematic robbery of public enterprises and spending not earned. In fact, you are to preserve this social peace creating a level of personal and public consumption which unfortunately the Croatian economy cannot finance and cannot endure because it simply does not have that fiscal capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91681	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91682	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, to be honest, I didn't expect this tone from you, but on the other hand, it just confirms that I was right about everything I said. Because when people go to talk like this after three years, then it means they have no argument for this. But colleagues Jelash just something, you are under the circumstances of the ruling nomenclature which was at the moment Croatia formally entered the EU, so Croatia would not have entered the EU if it had not implemented a series of reforms, a series of laws. The second thing, the government budget deficit before the economic crisis was 0.8%. These days you are boasting that Doing Busness moved Croatia at the site of competitiveness etc. I received a prize from Doing Busness top 10 reformers from my colleague Jelas, the only Croatian minister enrolled in the book. It is very interesting that when it comes to HDZ it is not worth it, and when it comes to.... Are you really saying that the World Bank gave it this way, and at the same time this Doing business is okay. when it suits you. But look at one thing, it still says that heavy reform requires political will and I said it honestly and correctly that in 2009, it was not because if there were probably some things to be done. But my colleague Jelish, I will also tell you the irresponsible behavior in the opposition can lead to evil. Remember the Labour Act, running to sign the referendum. You know how much Croatian citizens cost not to amend the Labour Act and not to abolish those collective rights, etc.? Over the last five years, over 15 billion kunas. It's a fact and you can't get away from it. So, please, everyone knows what he did, but if a colleague Linic says there is no political will, if I say I who was a minister before, and probably also a colleague, Dalic, and probably a colleague, Lalovac, will one day say, then the fact that reform is primarily needed is political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91683	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you've made a good point that deceptions and lies are in fact announcements that no change will take place at the Ministry of Defense's position. In fact, it is evident that in this budget rebalancing 23 million kunas are also reducing the budget of the Ministry of Defence in various positions, and what is worse is that legal provisions have been passed extending the right to care for the citizens of the Homeland War as well as the right to employment that absolutely cannot be read that anything will be supported. The list of applications for housing is growing and is now on 13,600 people seeking housing care. Equally, by 10,000, the list of unemployed Croatian defenders has been increased and it is evident that there is no hearing, no reason for that population, no matter how falsely you wish to show that there will be 19 million increased budgets in the next budget. It's an absolutely notorious untruth that tells the following. If today we reduce 23 million in rebalancing and 19 we give, how much we gave to the Croatian defenders in that position and how we will meet our legal obligations. Well, it was also clearly said by the Committee on Fiscal Policy that this government must deal seriously with responsibility, on the fiscal responsibility prescribed by the law. It is clear that we will not be able to use European funds because they are not even presented so that Croatian defenders can be the ones in that operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion who will be able to supply veteran centres and report needs for housing. Here in the draft concerns returnees and refugees of Serbian nationality, as they will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91685	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91686	Comrade Djakić, take a look at this smutty material. The only thing we have marked in it is the Department of Defense. You know why? It's because of all that's going on, because of that play at the government's session and that it's seen in principle what happened in that old budget, except it's been reduced by 23 million kuna. It's the only fact. But very interesting to increase rights, care for Croatian defenders in the Homeland War. Is it possible that some act of this government has increased some rights? They didn't. This means that the ministry was deliberately ill-planned because it calculated that it would receive it over the year. But what are the positions that have been reduced? It reduces the position of marking the site of death in the Homeland War and the public institution of the Homeland War Memorial in Vukovar. Thus, the Institute of the Homeland War Memorial of Vukovar is reporting down from 36 million to 9 million 550 or down by 27 million 200. So much for yesterday's statement to those who love and those who don't like Vukovar. This is the best document. A public institution that only serves that our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandsons do not forget the crime that took place there because only through such an institution can it happen. This is where those funds go down. That's why, look, in these many pages, the only page marked by that playbook, thank you, Minister, we've increased it. You didn't increase anything, you're just returning what you unwarrantedly took, and unfortunately we were all in the memory column yesterday. This is just a message to the Vukovars.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91687	Thank you. Clear Mesic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91688	Dear counterpart Shuker, we have heard here that the Vice-President of the Government Mr. Grcic cannot accidentally hit any projections or any assessment of the economic development of Croatia. Unfortunately, you are the other extreme that every year you keep talking about the budget of the Republic of Croatia, every time you criticize, every time you point to certain items, and then when we come rebalancing at the end of the year or in the early autumn we see that you were right. So you reminded your colleague Shuker that we were here last year when this budget was passed that there would be no money for salaries in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. No one wanted to listen to us at the time, and we already had a lesson when simply then Minister Jovanovic forgot to sign to pay people off in science and salary education for the 12th month. What researchers will say, say at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, on what you said would significantly reduce their resources for scientific research in the budget rebalancing. But also, fellow Shuker, we also reminded ourselves of when this budget was brought in a cut in that section covered by the Ministry of Culture, so we said exactly what items they would lack, precisely on those items where culture contributes to the economy. So we told them they'd miss the incentives for audiovisual activities, for recording foreign co-productions, so we told them they'd miss them in the investment section for the part that applies to institutions in culture. It is now coming back because it is clear now to all and I suppose the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not have planned the budget, but all those items that only encourage consumption remain the same respected fellow Shuker, regardless of what we said. But unfortunately, no one wanted to hear us, as well as this time probably because they wouldn't want to hear us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91689	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91690	Thank you very much, colleague Mesic. So if you give someone some kind of right and no legal act has reduced that right or you haven't increased it, why should you have to reduce it, so you have to secure the money in the budget next year for those rights. And since we have not seen any acts reducing the rights of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture during this year, this is what you were talking about, and the funds are planned to be smaller in order to send to the European Commission a nice picture of the colour that Croatia has a deficit of 12.5 billion etc., etc. But our people say they're short-legged in lies, and now these short legs have come to the truth and to those who have rights, which are employees of the Ministry of Education and these are these projects from the Ministry of Culture, they just have to give money because it's their right. Now there's the question of reform, this or that, but sometimes it's politically difficult to listen to someone on the other side, but the facts are facts and this budget is misrepresenting the situation again. The deficit of this budget per ESA 2010 is 21, not 15,5 billion kuna. Because it is simply not possible to record certain revenues that in the future generate the cost of the book as income, what the health minister said at this point are 2 billion and 100 billion. And from this budget it is evident that items are removed from each position to patch up those that need to be patched up this year. It's so-called. deferral of payment. And they have certain commitments from the budget that are resolved through the so-called factoring societies, and that's kind of a delay for a year, a year and a half. And that brings us into the budget deficit 21 billion this year, and 23 billion next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91691	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91692	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, sometimes I feel it would be worth reviewing your views or your arguments rather than underestimating others. Why do I say that? So somehow I'll follow that part of Nadica Jelash's replica in terms of time. The foundations of the economy we have today were set yesterday. When I say yesterday, I think long before and the crisis that has taken place. One of the government's tasks is to ensure, in addition to setting the conditions for economic activity, the stability of all those systems that are used by them most vulnerable. First of all, that's where we think of the pension system, the health system that has its own needs. The basic problem of the Croatian economy that came up with me to express myself like that yesterday in the beginning of the crisis is indifference. 34 billion kunas of indifference and add 205,000 workers who worked and didn't get paid. This is of course associated with the low level of capitalisation of companies. The construction sector which had momentum, which was in fact the cornerstone of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of the recession in 2008 and 2009, is experiencing its fiasco and business banks fleeing from the sector. You're in yours, and that's what the HBOR said to me on the line. That's when HBOR comes in, you see, until 2008. 70% of HBOR's investments went, 70% of the appropriations went to HBOR's investments and 30% to trade capital. Since 2008, the situation has been turning upside down and 60% of the funds go into trade capital, and 40% go into investment alone. So, all the troubles that have hit the economy need to be solved, and above all, there is the construction sector. And then that indifference chain rolled. And as for consumption, you said something about it in your own. No more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91693	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91694	Comrade Žagar, the budget is the strongest leverage for the introduction of economic policy, the strongest. You don't have a stronger lever. And also to strengthen local self-government units so that they can participate in the process. And if you read this from this budget, unfortunately, what it says, it's what it says. You can't blame someone else for that. They're facts, they're simple facts that you can't escape from. A fellow Sagar, indifference. So how can you talk about the fact that indifference has been reduced in Croatia? By administrative means, the pre-fashion settlements reduced the claims of certain undertakings both mutually and with obligations towards the state by administrative means. Because if something had happened practically, then on the revenue side of the budget I would have had a far better quality situation. Because out of those 8 or 9 billion, or as far as you're saying indifference would be reduced, something would sit in the state budget for the overall joy of colleagues of Lalovac and his colleagues at the Ministry of Finance, and probably Minister Varga would be more pleased with that, because it would probably sit down with him too. So, so much for indifference. It's not getting paid. Look, the most important thing is to make an announcement. However, the latest report see how many companies you currently have that do not pay the wages. You can't administratively just say something it'll be so and it would be so, it's a Bible proverb. Only one can do that, and that's the one above. And thank God there are no more of them. But to spend this on payouts, etc. There are other things to be done. But the biggest problem with this budget is that it hides the great acts that this government has adopted, which it does not execute, and which simply want to be shown in this budget that they are not implemented. They won't show, nor are they done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91695	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91696	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, you've just said a lot of things in your presentation, and I've been wondering how it's possible that this government that said three years ago that it knew how to solve the crisis in Croatia didn't really do anything. Listening to both ministers and proposals to make savings through various ministries, I ask myself a question that they have made saves except for stopping capital investments in each ministry. Instead of working on their savings, they simply banged capital investments on everything that comes to cost and thus made savings. I'll just remind you that 12 quarters since they've been on the government's downfall, so there's no movement. 81% of Croatia's public debt has already taken over the gross domestic product. If we know that agriculture is reduced in just three years, one and a half billion kunas, local self-government over one billion kunas, in the next year two and a half billion kunas will be taken to local self-government, I wonder where we are with our debt, so our deficit is 19 billion, that we have 2 billion unrecorded in the Ministry of Health, and I would say only one anecdote. In one of our companies, they asked the head of accounting when he exposed the difficult situation to them, and they asked him, so, well, boss, we're going to fail. So he says, we've already failed, we just didn't sign up. I'm also afraid that this budget and this government leading Croatia are leading right to destruction and that we've already failed, but we haven't registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91697	My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91698	When you look at the past three years that these positions have been cut in the state budget, then you will see that only the funds that were to go towards the economy, which were to go to local self-government units for building infrastructure and that were to go to school. For example, at my school in Velika Gorica, elementary school has been built for four years. Nothing special, an investment of about 30 million kuna, but it's been built for four years and the last year and a half, nothing's been done. These are these cuts from this government. Because it is the easiest way to take a unit of local self-government, it is easier not to give some company some kind of subsidy or support, it is the easiest way to take its support and subsidies to the Croatian peasant, not to prepare it to withdraw funds from the EU, and so the budget that has been set at 85.86% in some years with some rights, and 15% of these funds that could have helped local self-government units and entrepreneurs are now practically zero. Because when you look at what's cut in this budget, HBOR takes 400 million kuna to HBOR. But it's not what's being taken to HBOR but what was the fundamental lever of this government's economic policymaking, the fundamental lever. So, given the inactivity of the private banking sector for this or that reason, the state has decided that HBOR will take a greater risk, that it will lend loans and practically no business banks will take on practically 50 or 100% of its responsibility and in such a way that it can help the economy, now it takes 400 million and you will see in the Budgetary Act an additional 520 million kuna and HBOR remains without a billion kuna. And if that's how you treat the economy, then the results are what they are, and the pretense settlement is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91699	Thank you. Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91700	Here is my colleague Shuker you and your colleagues as often as you now mention a colleague of Linic and praise him so often recently and called and attacked him. Yeah, I'll look back on your exposure to changing tax laws. Yes, frequent amendments to tax laws are certainly not desirable. But why are they taking it? Well, they're being taken just for a reason to try to find a model to get out of the crisis. Is there a mistake? I'm sure there is. Is there any success? It does, too. Here I'm going to give you an example of the reinvested profit. A lot of times here mentions the inaction of this government, incompetence, doing nothing. I won't say that the former government, where you were part of one, didn't do or didn't try. Yeah, they tried, but those moves didn't result in the desired results. As for attacking the tax system and mentioning the burden on citizens. Well, I'd mention that even the past government one of the most remembered moves was exactly what society called it at the time was the introduction of hackers and thus trying to save the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91701	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91702	My colleague, some of you, I can be sure of it now. It was a harracic compared to the mega-harraser you introduced, harrasic. And it lasted less than a year. And he certainly had a social aspect of all those who had paid below $3,000 and a pension below $3,000. And now I also don't know what time I said it, and I'm gonna tell this to the public, and you know why the Crisis Tax Act was passed? Well, because there was no political readiness, the strength to cut the spending side. At the same time in Europe, no one has issued bonds, no states, four months, and you need to pay off your pensions, you need to go to investors and ask for a billion and a half dollars. And then what are you going to tell them? No, we're not able to do anything on the expense side, but that's why we did it with taxes and that, with a limited lifetime. I just told investors in America and we got a loan at a relatively favourable interest rate at that point. That's what I said back then, that's what I'm saying today, and I'll always say it. That was the result because there was no political will. Because the initial proposal of the Ministry of Finance at that meeting where they were to understand respected economic analysts, trade unions, there were over 40 people, all who liked to teach lessons, the proposal of the Ministry of Finance was to reduce 8% of the expenditure side. Then it was and why should we be the only ones carrying it, everyone. And they all agreed on that tax. And that's why me and my colleague Linic are saying things like that today. Why? Well, because as responsible men when you're in the minister's position, then some of the things they say in the house can't go out. Because it's hard for a family to solve their problems in the neighborhood. But now that you're free to say what you want, you'll see my debate individually will go far beyond what's on behalf of the club. Why? Because I'm not sure some colleagues will agree with some things. But if I say it individually, that's it. And my colleague Lalovac will probably speak very much tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91703	Tomislav Ivić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I appreciate your thinking that you have held in the debate on behalf of the club, especially since you are really at home, you have been Minister of Finance for 7 years and few people in Croatia know the state budget like you. I remember that play you mentioned when it came to Croatian defenders and budgeting. And it was really like that. And what is the government's attitude towards Croatian defenders and the resolution ministry best says that here are 30 days of the most difficult military disabled protesting against the minister. I think they should have asked for the Prime Minister's resignation because then they'd probably solve all the problems. But I'd also like to say a few things about a problem that you didn't mention, which is very much about the lack of care and irresponsibility of this government, and it's about defence and defence finance. I don't know if you know that over the past three years, the defence ministry's budget has been reduced by more than 800 million kunas than it was in 2011. So in 2011 and 2014, the defence ministry's budget was lower by over 800 million kuna. So, that's 100 million euros, for a small country like Croatia, that's money that's hard to make up for through savings, and it's no wonder that the situation in the area of defence is what it is, that our planes are who they are, that combat technique is what it is, that our relationship with the Croatian soldier is what it is. This may be the best example of the irresponsibility and, of course, the inability of the Croatian government to solve the problems it is in charge of.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91705	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91706	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivić, I'll start with this last thing you said. A colleague Kotromanovic is a responsible man no matter what is on the other side. And also his financials were run by the late Vesna Orlando's former head of state treasurer, who simply knew where and how things could be settled. And then comes politics, it is the president of the state and the Prime Minister who makes the political decision as well as how much money and at what level of equipment the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be. And only after their political decision is the finance minister with the Chief of Staff preparing documents and then the funds are provided in the budget. So, the minister went with the rationalization of what he believes should be rationalized by expecting a political decision whether it's this much or that much money, whether it's in a year, two, three of me and you can't interfere because we don't know. But I'm saying that the other ministers acted not only in this, but also in that former government of ours in that way would probably be a different situation. And the Ministry of Defence, the Croatian Defence is just the best indication that it's not so good to talk about how it's given someone some kind of means, you don't know in principle what happened before. And unfortunately, in many of the high officials' comments things are often commented without knowing the background for them and then the story turns out to be far different, and so is this with Croatian defenders. Because I think it's gonna be hard for all the Vukovars, all the Croats who came here to defend Vukovar, and there was either killed or killed by one of their own, hard to explain that the Vukovar Memorial Center is reducing funds by 27 million kuna. Therefore, these are facts that we cannot escape from, and they simply have no room or place for politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91707	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91708	Instead of your colleagues saying that in your debate, you say that we are not giving anything but that we are still subtracting what is absolutely not true, therefore, for those personal items concerning the personal defender. Now you're saying again that we're going to be able to explain these certain items that you've just mentioned to the defense attorneys in the first place. As you please, Mr. Schucker, who was Minister of Finance at the time, when you were preparing the rebalancing, you said to the public, "If we don't cut salaries and pensions in September, we don't have the money to pay them off." This resulted in a bill, i.e. a rebalancing that reduced the salary of all, all employees, all pensioners, defenders of pensioners, covering this reduction of 10% of the defence population, only you did not dare to touch the pensions of 100% military disabled. And this is how your colleagues in the Parliament defended your drastic reduction primarily for 10% of defense pensions "Most defenders are aware of the moment in which we are in a hurry for economic recovery." That's what it was like back then. Then further, aware and aware of the Croatian state we wanted, which we love today, which we want to continue to function as a legal state, so here we are solidaritying ourselves with everyone else in order to make our incomes, we want to stress that we have accepted 10% as necessary and necessary today. A conscious situation in which the Republic is located we believe that we will endure, what we have been in this fire of crisis that has hit Croatia and there are many, many colleagues where you have otherwise spoken to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91709	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91710	... Thank you very much for these quotes. [[Specially enabled.]] Why? Because that's when the only real budget cuts happened in these times of crisis happened. And today I regret that politics on the same cut did not accept it in the 10th month of 2008, but it happened in the 4th month of 2009. Just look, unlike when the Prime Minister doesn't have the courage to go amongst the defenders, and the president of the state comes and sweats with discomfort, then all these cuts have been negotiated with the associations and it hasn't been pleasant. And today I'm going to say that I would never suggest a reduction in 100% disability. So, everything is negotiated with associations, nothing is done overnight, and you, if you want to take someone's rights, then you have to agree in exactly the same way how this right happened in a completely identical way, you have to talk to those who have that right to be reduced. It was a difficult situation back then, and remember it's the only real cut on the expense side. That's when the budget was cut by nine billion kuna. And you just now said what my colleague Linic and I said, and most people in the replica said are things that have to be done. ... You want me or you want me? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I listened politely while you spoke. And you remember now what you said to your colleague Kosor at the time, just remember then? The female part of the audience on this left. Therefore, no matter how politically close she is to you today, but then you said very ugly things to her when she advocated the rights of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91711	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a lot has already been said that I've noticed, but by following up on this exhibit, I've been trying to read something for the better. And imagine I didn't find it. This is where he drank the cuts. And I especially noticed what he said, he said he cut himself in agriculture. I thought to myself, it's not. And you know what, these guys from the field that I see every day, I meet, farmers, they say what Mladen Delic used to say, so is that possible? Or they can say, just find us a hand. I think he's saying enough for himself. But it's a special matter of funding units of local self-government, which is also very special for me somehow stuck to my ear. No guidelines have come, but cutting goes and really comes to the question of funding and kindergartens, of course based on these changes in income taxes, and kindergartens, so are our children in rural areas less valuable? Of course, schools, school and stuff without talking about fire. A firehouse where, mainly in our northwest parts, there's a part of life. Firemen who have now shown such strength, will, and energy as these floods have now done such things that are immeasurable. Here, we have to get them now... And I also want to say something from the local level, and we are already cutting in this part of Podravina where we are participating in the energy needs of Croatia on the basis of... hydrocarbons, also on the basis of the regulation, almost 30% of the income has been cut down and, therefore, we are being questioned about the financing of our needs, of course, of all those that I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91713	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91714	Well, look, fellow... the easiest thing to do is to take something from you who can't do anything, and these are local self-government units, and it happens all the time, and they're Croatian farmers, and then unfortunately in such a situation, they're, when they fit, then they're raised to the throne, when they don't fit, then they're thrown in the mud, and they're mostly treated like that, but what's the fact, this government hasn't prepared them to finish, how to withdraw funds from EU funds, but that's why subsidies... cuts them every year. Just remember what happened with the dairy cows farms, and Croatia has suddenly increased the exports of beef because someone rolled in like some kind of bacteria in milk, 30,000 cows of milk were slaughtered and many farms co-financed from the state budget have disappeared. And it is good for a colleague... that you today, regardless of what this right-hand part of the assembly often makes fun of you, are constantly in your discussions taking care of the Croatian peasant, and it is also good that as head of a small unit of local self-government you said what will happen to those most sensitive, and these are children with these tax changes to the Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91715	Thank you. We have, I wanted Mrs. Kosor to finish the debate. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have reported a breach of Rules of Procedure which, in my opinion, is done by Agent Shucker, because Article 238 says, among other things, that during the debate, a representative cannot deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly and belittle or insult the chairman or other representatives. So, Mr. Schucker, replicating, mentions my name, then the Prime Minister, in line with the government's decision to cut the budget, including in two rebalancings in 2009, but says it was my position at the time, and that I am now close to the SDP. It's a demeaning mind, it's demeaning me as a person, but it's also me as a politician because I represent always the same views. And then about the column of memory and the constitutional law, the rights of minorities and the deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91717	Thank you, Mrs. Kosor. Time's up. Unfortunately, I have to unplug you. You've broken your time. I find that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of Article 238, there was no... What? You didn't get the word. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you're not satisfied with my interpretation, you have a business opportunity. Comrade Shuker, you have announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91718	Yes, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you were in article 238, you should have warned your colleague Kosor that she was saying what I didn't say at all. She just said one fact, and that's a closeness to SDP policy. It is she in her public appearances, and these are all other facts where her colleagues from the SDP as the then minister, not the Prime Minister, but the defence minister because this major budget cut took place in the 4th month 2009. Therefore, at the time you were Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister and, therefore, I just wanted to confess that with your agreements and talks with the defenders, we have come to a common solution. I don't know what's offensive to you, so I gave you a confession. And of your political views, the entire Croatian public bears witness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91719	Comrade Shuker, I find that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure on my part and to Article 238. Comrade Klaric, you've raised your hand. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91720	The replicas ended with Mr. Shucker?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91721	No, they haven't finished their replicas. We have another replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll just give you a little bit of time, Mr. Clairy. Anyway, you were talking about the incompetence of this government, and I'm looking at it a little bit differently, like... that when a fight falls on the floor and we're all shoeing them, so I'm looking at this government, and it's with all the social groups that she could unfortunately have fought with, and all those remarks that we told them about legal stability, about tax discharges, that it's not working, they didn't listen. And even this here, Minister Lalovac spoke when I was, in fact, when he became minister that there would be no introduction of new taxes, which we see in the future will not happen. Speaking of the budget, you said you couldn't agree that certain things are shrinking without specific explanations, i.e. that they are increasing and I'm going to tell you just a few things, let's just say that you didn't say in your performance, because of the time I assume that the development of civil society is not reducing but is increasing by 127 million kuna and more, the funds for the development of civil society 46 million kuna to strengthen the capacity of the civil society sector 2 million kuna and I'm not counting, that's about 300, 350 million kuna, but at the same time reducing the funds that are related to Croatia's national minority from 3 to 1.5 million kuna, the Council for national minorities from 400... reduces to 397 thousand kuna to those 7 thousand kuna. On the other hand, support for Croats to return to BiH from 9 million to 6 million kuna. And let's just say the president didn't notice what he was saying, the current president talking about rationalisation, economics, cost reduction, has not reduced the resources of his office by one lip, and the remaining funds of 43 million kuna and another 9 million kuna for technical matters. If one correlation is made with the municipalities that received 309 million kuna compared to what... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91723	A fellow Shuker answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91724	Well, my colleague Babic was probably all, given the activities, the increased activities planned well for his resources, and probably that's how the President's Office planned well, given the increased activities that the costs will have this year, and the logical thing you can't take away from someone if you gave it to him, and we see that the President and the President's Office have increased activities in the second part of the year, but the easiest thing is to touch the weakest ones. So we talked about Croatian entrepreneurs, we talked about Croatian peasants, we talked about Croatia's national minority because other minorities said if our budget is cut we will not support the draft budget rebalancing, but unfortunately when it comes to Croatia's minority, we are talking about Croats in Serbia first, about Croats in Hungary, Romania, Kosovo and Macedonia where they are particularly threatened with little resources, and I am not saying that the strongest aid to Croats in BiH can be through certain economic projects and one and the other and third and fourth through projects of cross-border cooperation that can be withdrawn from the EU practically our budget cost nothing. But then the countries in which the Croats are a national minority must feel a strong policy of the Croatian government and a desire and help to help the national minority of Croats. Just as a strong desire must be felt at this time to help Croatians in BiH become what they are, and this is the third constituent people not only on paper but also on all acts and that Croats in BiH also get their channel on BiH's national television, and until then HRT must take care of them because they are very much monitoring the HRT programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91725	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here's the vice president. Here's your colleague, Klaric. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91727	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This second rebalancing of the state budget for 2014 is conditioned by a weaker achievement of revenue than planned and some exceptional costs such as the expenses for the recovery of the effects of the flood. The continuation of unfavourable economic movements has a further decline in GDP and the current rebalancing is based on a 0.7% GDP decline. The long-standing recession and slow pace of necessary reforms over the years of the crisis have a significant impact on economic progress, resulting in the revenues of the state budget. Since 2009, budgets have recorded high deficits covered by loans which have a significant impact on the level of public debt, and consequently through interest on high budget expenditure growth. In view of the fact that previous economic growth is based on state and private investment and consumption, which was also mostly financed by borrowing, we are now facing both the state and the economy and the population with the consequences of high interest and the good part of the inability to pay off the loan. It also tells us the high blockades of economic operators and citizens, but also this problem we've had for several years with the state budget. Domestic economic operators are low-capitalised, highly-indebted, mostly non-insolvent and solvable. The problem of indifference tried to resolve the pre-fashion settlements which is a better and faster way of restructuring and consolidation of the company than the bankruptcy that sometimes lasts in Croatia for many years. With these deals in companies that successfully ended them, more than 50% of the claims were secured as far as they were achieved in the event of the company going through the course. Through the financial consolidation measures, tax debt regulation through the reprogramme is possible on several occasions and fiscalisation has been introduced in cash payment. Other measures have also been introduced to revive economic activities, reduce certain parafiscal duties, release of profits tax for part of the profits to be reinvested, and a lower rate of health insurance contributions has been applied for 2 years. The higher capital allocation of HABOR ensured more favourable lending at the price of capital and manuals compared to commercial banks. It should be said that in these 3 years alone, around 2 billion kuna has been paid in basic capital, which is far higher compared to the previous period. The minimum wage has been increased, tax deductions have been increased, more favourable tax rates on income, thus affecting the pay level whether the employer has raised or not. Certain reforms in health care, welfare, labour legislation, the judiciary are also under way, but the processes are slow, the recovery is long-lasting, although some trends show progress. Yet any more significant... procedure or change conflicts with a mentality that hardly accepts change. On important issues, unfortunately, I will repeat again, there is no political or social agreement that necessarily slows down or sometimes even completely blocks the necessary reforms. Therefore, facing the consequences of our EU membership through the excessive deficit process and economic imbalances is painful for most of the users of the state budget. The impact of the long-term crisis has not yet been affected by all segments of society and the sooner we accept and speed up the necessary changes, the sooner we get positive results. The years-long decline in GDP in Croatia is conditioned by the structure dominated by consumption and state-owned infrastructure investments and investments in expensive properties that did not find buyers in times of crisis, which are financed by borrowing. When these two segments failed, the decline was inevitable because the real sector could not compensate for it through production and investment. However, in 2014, we also have several positive trends in economic developments, especially in exports, the processing industry in tourism, and lately a decline in retail traffic has been halted. Thus, in 9 months this year, exports increased by 9.6%, imports by 4.5%, affecting a 2% reduction in the trade deficit. In this year, a low consumer price rate of 0.4% was also achieved and the trend will likely remain until the end of the year. However, the most significant impact on GDP is the decline in investment and decline in construction, which also has a significant impact on employment levels, i.e. unemployment. Despite the legal assumptions for investment, but also the possibility of the use of European Funds, investment remains lagging behind and further analysis of the administrative obstacles affecting investors is needed. The provision of financial resources for investments is not questionable, it is seen through the liquidity of business banks, but also Croatian Banks for Reconstruction and Development, and the absence should be sought in the low credit capacity of domestic investors and the absence of foreign investors should be further analysed and sought for places where barriers exist. And what is this rebalancing based on? The first rebalancing was conditioned by entering the excessive deficit process, so the planned deficit of around 17 billion should have been reduced to 4.6% of GDP based on recommendations from the European Council that corresponds to the annual improvement of the structural balance of 0.5% of GDP. This required an increase in revenue and a reduction in part of budget expenditure. Incomes were increased by returning the health contribution rate to 15%, increased concession fees, some excise duties that were in line with excise duties in the European Union, payments made to companies in the budget, and the transfer of pension insurance contributions to the name of the benefits of the work force. With a minimum budget reduction of around 500 million, the deficit was planned at 13.5 billion kuna, which at that time was 4.5% of GDP with a deficit of extra budget funds. This rebalancing corrects revenue by 2.6 billion for the sake of significant subsidisation of tax revenues and the unrealisation of projects with EU funds in 2014. It should be said that we entered the European Union at the time when the new planned 7-year period in the European Union begins and the necessary documents are being made for the next planning period so that Croatia has only the part from the previous periods relating to pre-accession funds and part of the funds for this year from existing structural funds. The biggest reduction in income is from VAT and profit tax, about a billion kuna. The expenditure side of the budget has been reduced by around 600 million kuna, primarily for increasing flood damage rates, increasing pension funds, employees and social benefits of around a billion and 200 million, while other items are reduced by a billion 800 and primarily related to subsidies, interest due to lower interest rates and other expenditures. With the new rebalancing, the planned deficit is 15.6 billion or 4.8% of GDP. The years-long decline in GDP necessarily affects the deficit unless there are significant cuts on the largest expenditures of the budget, salaries, pensions, social transfers. The policy of drawing up this budget is based on retaining the level of these expenditures, therefore for salaries, pensions and social expenditure, which the SDP club supports. However, we would like to warn that without economic growth and a reduction in public debt that generates high interest costs at 11 to 12 billion a year, and at the current level of more favourable interest rates, this will not be sustainable. It must also be aware of the users of the state budget and of us who create budgetary policy. Of course, we also support the Ministry of Finance's efforts to carry out a deep analysis of the expenditure and control of the spending of these expenditures. The SDP club will support the adoption of budget rebalancing for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91728	Thank you. We have one replica. Franco Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91729	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Zgrebec, in your presentation you said that facing a difficult situation is painful for all the users of the state budget. However, there are users of the state budget according to which the budget has not been cut despite what their colleagues said this morning, and these are the items of the Ministry of Defence. In fact, 23 million kuna is a removed item for defenders in the budget rebalancing, but more than that figure, so 27 million and 200 thousand kunas were removed from the public institution Memorial Center of the Homeland War Vukovar. Therefore, the attitudes are not cut. And also the state has not given up on this project, this project is going on. Public tenders are under way and simply by the end of this year you won't be able to spend that money on it. So I would really ask my HDZ colleagues to stop manipulating both the Homeland War and the rights of the defenders because it simply doesn't answer the truth. Everything else has been raised on other items of the other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91730	Thank you. A fellow Shucker, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91731	Mr. Vice President, a colleague of Vidovic's replicated the esteemed vice president. And the other thing is, he's going to replicate and tell lies, just funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91732	Comrade Shuker, there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure by fellow Vidovic. If you're not satisfied with my interpretation, and you're aware that it wasn't, you have a business opportunity that I'm referring you to. You won't, thank you, okay. A colleague Vidovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91733	Thank you. Well, it just seems to me that my colleague Schucker hurt the Rules of Procedure by abusing him. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91734	Comrade Vidovic, you have now injured the Rules of Procedure. You have not pointed out which article of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, you have an opportunity through discussion both of you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91735	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So this is the second rebalancing before us. The year is almost over, which was... How? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What's going on? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then it's good. I'm kidding. So I'm far more concerned about what's going to happen in 2015 than it is about 2014. So the 2015 budget predicts that the deficit should be about 12 billion kuna, which, in my court, is an almost impossible mission. It looks great on paper, but it seems just as unsustainable. The decline of gross social product here several months ago we read the statements of the governor of the Croatian National Bank. He predicted it should be -0.6%, but that's what the government has already corrected to -0.7%. State spending drop 0.6%, the governor corrects it to 1.3%. Gross investment in fixed capital fell 3.6%, and tourism didn't show much either. By my deep conviction, he failed. It's that there's been some more nights. It formally, formally more nights, but this is the result primarily of fiscalisation, legalization of illegal construction plus the possibility that after entering the EU and the foreigners who have apartments here, villas, I don't know what they do with renting. And that's the basic reason why we're showing it like that now. As far as exports are concerned, he's probably growing something. Whether it grows at that rate of 9.6% mentioned before me by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec or by someone else. I think it's almost impossible at this point to determine the team more, and especially we don't have to deal with such high numbers because industrial production in the first quarter grew by only 1.5%, in our second quarter stagnated. And then I find it hard to believe that we have exports of 9.6% of each, and already last year, even 17%, respectively. However, what is certainly good next year should bounce off shipbuilding and help export, and this will ultimately feel like real exports. Here are also these days, the Uljannik concluded an arrangement with the Belgians about the construction of two platforms, and some time ago the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian Government set a state guarantee of as much as 153m euros for the construction of a yard higher than a Dutch client, not to speak now about the company's names. In 2013, the share in public debt was 75.7%. So last year it was about 250 billion kuna. The government budget deficit at the moment of 16 billion kuna per SA2010 would have to increase by at least 3 billion kuna to what it is that 3 billion kuna from the mandatory pension funds we withdrew into the budget. So the deficit is certainly closer to 6% than 5% at this point. Whether it's 5.6.5.7 or 8% remains to be seen. What is good debt is less than expected, above all, because we have not entered the HBOR's obligations. 2015 is the year that is ahead of us, which we should be interested in far more than this 2014 will be an extremely difficult year, weighing from 2014. But I'm afraid that really sobering will come or follow in 2016 when you draw up the budget in that year. The second thing I'm saying is, this is also a late rebalance on me. The government takes over the government when the annual income was HRK 107 billion, and it costs $121 billion. Today the expenditures are 9 billion higher and amount to 130 billion kuna. And mostly because of the EU. Unlike some in this assembly, it is my opinion that no country has hit entry into the EU as hit Croatia. I am not a Eurosceptic, but I will repeat once again no European country has hit EU accession like us. In the first year of the EU, it literally stalled Croatia, and in no way helped, say, the promised takeoff of Croatia. It's probably our own fault, though. From 1.7.2013 to 31.6.2014, we paid 537m euros. We pulled 575 million euros, so we're in plus 38 million euros. But the worst part is that Europe sets priorities for us to work with and that the other side is forcing us to give up subsidies primarily in agriculture worth 138.5 million kuna and a small economy of 60 million kuna. State revenues, meaning $114.5 billion on one side. On the other hand, we need to look at the income of local self-government 21.8 billion kuna. The new Income Act, which was discussed before the local self-government, will run out of $1.8 billion. This means that the Istrian County will run out of some of us talking about 42 units of local self-government, or administration 70, maybe a little more than a million kuna. The alignment proposed whatever that term means, or compensation, that loss would have to be eliminated in some way. However, I would say that one another is our biggest problem. Unfortunately, the government has no courage. She has to relieve the citizens of the upgrade that since the crisis on here, I'm talking about an upgrade that from the crisis here spends three billion kunas more on wages compared to the pre-crisis period. So in this period, it was employed in the upgrade whether it was local self-government, municipal enterprises, state, ministries, health care, education, etc., 22 thousand people, while in the same period the real sector paid 8 billion kuna less for wages and remained without 120 thousand jobs in the same period. Secondly, Croatia in my court should also be reorganised, reformed both by state and local self-government. How? Very radical. Among other things, if it is necessary to shut down two-thirds of local self-government units and return the entire structure to the one from the 1990s when Croatia was rapidly developing, and this means, among other things, that the state should also be radically decentralised. One word doesn't go on like this anymore. And yesterday we had a session of the Istarska County Assembly, so among other things, I was saying that the team is spending a million and 400 thousand kuna in the County of Istria. On 5.1 million kuna phones, I don't know how many million kunas on intellectual services, at the promotion of 4.2 million kunas. If we multiply it by another 41 units of local self-government then we see that it's being spent on these bases of almost 100 million kuna. And we're not talking about the fact that individuals have just since the election on this planet have been incarcerated by hundreds and hundreds of people. And I agree with the minister who says that local self-government has been working 30% more people here since the start of the crisis than before the crisis, and that their salaries, receipts, don't matter by about 30%. What is also important to mention business revenues in this rebalance of $116.7 billion is also reduced to €113.9 billion, by 2.8 billion, mainly due to a decline in tax revenue by 1.1 billion. VAT -258 million kuna, property tax -57 million kuna, goods and services tax -836 million kuna, contributions to HZZO -245 million kuna, for... -44 million kuna. From the EU, we were hoping for 4.2 billion kuna, I said, we were arriving at cca of these 3 billion kunas. Salaries, once again when we talk about wages, go up in the state for 331 million kuna, from 21.3 billion kuna to 21.6 billion kuna. Material expenditures, come on, it's a tiny 50 million kuna from 8 billion to 8.1 billion kuna. When we talk about financial expenditures, then we see here that interest on issued securities, financial expenditures on pardon 10.9 billion kuna, actually almost 11 billion kuna, interest on issued securities 8.8 billion kuna, interest on received loans and loans of 2.3 billion kuna, other financial expenditures of 558 million kuna. The subsidies show that they drop by 367.8 million kuna to 5.3 million kuna. I think that's kind of the point even though what's certainly the essence of this budget is these ones where I found it now? These 7 billion kunas around these loans that were first deleted, and later they appear again. So instead of 35.6 billion kuna, it's now 42.6 billion kuna again. What bothers me a little is that someone probably knew what was going to happen and went with an unrealistic first rebalancing. We were saying that it's going to be $35.6 billion on the outside, and now we see that we're back at $42 billion. I don't think it's fair that in that way I'm simply not going to tell you something that's gone wrong, but in some way, that maybe under the quotes, we've been duped. All in all, the year is due in some way to bring an end but we are also all aware that in 2015 it will be an incomparably difficult year so I dare say from 2014 and that the sobering in some way whoever won the elections in this country follows 2016. Politics don't wave is not a good policy. We can see there's no pay-touching here. We'll all say that's great. If there's no pension touching, you absolutely can't touch it. That there's no touching or socializing. But we see for ourselves that the investment will be less, that for subsidies there will be no less, that there are no fundamental reforms of state or local self-government, pension or health systems. The deficit, which has been discussed before, in pension and health care is extremely large and I fear that in such circumstances neither foreign nor domestic investment of that withdrawal of money from stockings will soon be invested. Which will continue to produce or reproduce job losses, not growth. So briefly in that budget. All things are not to be envied by the Minister of Finance or by the former, but indeed the opportunities are approximately thankless and I think that we should perhaps get more courage to change some of the essential things in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91736	The replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91737	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Cain, when you spoke in your presentation, you touched the local self-government unit by speaking about decentralisation, so I would just point out that perhaps decentralisation is spoken of in such a way, and every little bit of this should be lost, perhaps you should talk about functional decentralisation of local self-government units, as has been resolved by many European countries. So give first responsibility, give authority to local self-government units and then ask them for responsibility. In the units of local self-government of them 556 if you exempt large cities from Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Sibenik, Gorica, Slavonski Brod, less than 4,000 people were employed in these other 400 municipalities, and you are talking about excessive employment. What you may or may not have noticed is that, for example, from the general state, the funds given to municipalities are at around 309 million kuna, if you make one comparison with the development of civil society that is mentioned in this rebalancing budget, which has increased 127 million kuna, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development of the Association 46 million kuna, by strengthening the capacity of the civil society sector to monitor the application of the European acquis 4 million kuna, strengthening sustainability and development of civil society organisation 2 million kunas, etc. etc. Which you don't really problem with and the effect is nothing unlike units of local self-government without which it would actually be a total depopulation would be a waste not only on islands but in the Dalmatian hinterland, Lica and Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91738	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91739	Sometimes it's civil society, I agree with you absolutely, and this relationship needs to be redefined in some way. It seems to me that through that structure at the annual level, don't take my word for it now, it's going to be over $4.5 billion. And it needs to be redefined absolutely. Speaking of revenues, the original income means this budget somewhere 114 billion kuna, local self-government 21.9 billion. When we look at it in ratios it's about 17 to 18% versus 8, 10, 2/83%. So I absolutely advocate radical decentralisation, I don't know if it can go beyond the state budget of income, so GDP is achieved only City of Zagreb, about 70%, County of Istria about 27% elsewhere, Primorje-Gorski County around 25%, Međimurje and Varazdin, but no matter what, I stand for radical decentralisation, radical regionalisation. In one word, if I were to be plastic, which I'd like to happen again when it comes to local self-government, to form, I know it's impossible to get back to that structure by the year 90. Why? Because by then, Croatia was the fastest to develop in my court. Why? Because she was the most decentralised among other things. But the responsibility at the local level was incomparably greater then than simply today. When I look at how much money "returns" is formed, then I see that from the state budget, say the state, in the County of Istria, there are 7,800 jobs, so it's the state administration, health care, etc. Plus somewhere around 1 400 in the police, providing a pension or a pension payment for about 47, 48 thousand pensioners, Kregar will tell you exactly how many there are. So at the end of the day, no County of Istria attracts much more than just money on that basis remains. But regardless of all the radical decentralisation and power to lower as close as possible to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91740	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91741	Thank you, well-respected deputy president, colleague and colleague. We have a budget rebalance coming in so late, but if it was good, it wouldn't be too late. Surely when something bad is done, you can't fix it at the end of the year. So I'll remind you when the budget was passed last year, I remember when the Prime Minister was talking about responsible policy. So in the debate on behalf of the club, I said it was an irresponsible borrowing for years, and we have something called the Croatian problem. And governments will be able to change both left and right but we simply have to put an end to this policy, which is simply a policy of borrowing, borrowing without a real basis, if there is no reform in Croatia, there is no growth. And when we look at this particular rebalancing, then we can say that he missed the target again. And the target is a better life in the Republic of Croatia, a better life in Slavonia and Baranja. Well, I remember just when the budget was passed I said that I expect the budget on the bulky side not to cut Slavonia and Baranja, but when we talk about this budget, Slavonia and Baranja was cut, and here is an additional rebalancing of those 550 million cut just 49 070, 498 are just cutting into the projects of Slavonia and Baranja. That's what's not good, that's what doesn't create new values. I understand Minister Lalovac's desire to fix things, but he's only part of one team, a team that must work together and implement the plan, so it was Plan 21 or plan to better live in the Republic of Croatia. But instead, a great disproportionate of these desires, but also of possibilities. So when we look at Croatia's agriculture being cut by 127 million kunas with this rebalancing, when we see that the Ministry of Regional Development... should multiply the funds as well as in agriculture cut additional 94.7 million, Ministry of Economy 107 million, Ministry of Entrepreneurship 142 million and when you have the kind of deficit you have, then surely you can't be satisfied. But looking at the deficit that is growing year after year and often raises the question of whether the greater deficit has worked with HDZ or SDP, I fear that the SDP government will greatly exceed the previous HDZ in terms of not better life and economic growth than the deficit. Croatia is certain that the problem is economic growth, price stability, full employment and... external trade balance. We don't have economic growth and with this cutting on the wrong things, I'm afraid we'll have it even less. Price stability with tomorrow's income tax changes will certainly... local and regional administration will be raising prices and I'm afraid of one... cycle, one round that could take place in the coming months of the Republic of Croatia. This certainly won't lead to more employment, but this when we see those ministries that are creative, which is how they are cut, and even if they didn't give birth to that law on large investments in fruit, then we can say that when it comes to the external trade balance we won't have anything to boast about. And I'm afraid the external trade balance just feels our relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina because we're trying to get into some markets, I'd say, then the eastern one does some goods that we can't get through in the EU. Therefore, by looking at that deficit, we in the HDSSB cannot support this rebalance, a rebalancing that does not indicate a better life. Croatia also needs decentralisation and regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia, but also more significant withdrawal of EU funds and EU funds. Why do I say that? So because it is precisely Osijek-Baranja County, the city of Osijek and a good part of the local administration units in Slavonia and Baranja, since it is often visible that the resolution ministries and Croatian public enterprises do not have enough resources, we have turned to Europe, the European Funds and won, I would say, the best results. But when we look at projections for the next three years, then we see that Croatia has a great desire. But without the units of local and regional administrations, and the strongest ones that will be cut most of the budgets next year, I'm afraid they won't have the fiscal capacity to finance participation in funds and I'm afraid, and what we've been doing, we've made 15 kunas, that they won't have the strength to finance such desired projects for the next time. Today, there have been a lot of speeches, and this has been prompted by Mr Linic, who said there is no capital investment, especially from public enterprises, there is a waste in the wrong places, but there is no capital investment. We failed to attract foreign investors, and what we have and those levers that we have, from HBOR, which must finance our exporters to the same public enterprises that had to... the investment cycle, it didn't happen, and also our DUDI not well enough manages the property, so I'll tell you in Osijek half the city, half the city center is empty, and DUDI is the owner of these properties. So I wonder why after 1st, 2nd or 3rd competitions don't bring down prices if they can't rent the premises they want? It's about irresponsible behavior for which daily criminal charges could be filed and I think it's bad. But looking at the funds I was talking about, Minister Grcic did nothing to withdraw some funding for the period 2014. - 2020. We're still pulling back these old possibilities, old funds, but we haven't had a single effect from the structural ones yet. Therefore, Croatia has no progress unless the Ministry of Regional Development is doing its job. Today Croatia is lucky, and why do I say happiness? So because when you look at the EU, when you look at the world's capital market, it's those who have capital and in the EU who pay for money, and they don't get interest, and at that point, while there's a lot of those who have money in Europe and the world, and for keeping money they don't get interest, but they still pay, Croatia can still be owed. That all of this that's done with the deficit, with the gaps in the budget, and with borrowing from year to year leads to our credit rating going down, that we're going to get into the trash, we can't control our deficit, and then we're going to lose what we had, which is sovereignty, government of public finances, management of our budget and our policy. Our policies will soon be gone and should be clearly said in the Croatian Parliament, but measures should be taken. It is not enough to say, it is necessary on the expenditure side to cut, but not when it comes to investment, not when it comes to funds, not when it comes to what creates a new value, but when it comes to starting from cars, from phones, from our salaries and in the Croatian Parliament, someone will say that it is a populist, not dear friends, we must turn to what we can cut and what it can endure, and I think that also the parliamentary representatives can endure it. But looking at the other day we received from the Committee on Fiscal Policy several measures signed by Mr. Srdjan Gjurkovic, I must admit that they are quite realistic. The point of the first amendment and supplementation was tabled too late at a time when there is no longer enough time to affect the perceived adverse trends in increasing deficits and speeding up public debt growth, which will reach 80% of GDP by the end of this year when it comes to irresponsible policy. I'd like to ask the Registrar to show himself to us about it. The second point, by proposing changes and additions, is also increasing the deficit compared to the previous plan, which is a bad message. The proposal for amendments and additions shows a great weakness in the use of European funds, as I said earlier. The proposal for amendments and addition shows that there is a very high risk that the fiscal rule for 2014 will not be met which would then be the second year in a row in which the fiscal rule defined in the Fiscal Responsibility Act would be violated. Well, Europe will not tolerate us from sticking to the rules. We're going to have to stick to the rules no matter how much prime minister gets on it. Rather than being caught in the cutting and clearly by those policies that say the resolution ministers must implement it. What is very... and this is a very high risk of non-compliance with the fiscal rule that seriously violates the credibility of this government in the conduct of fiscal policy. I'm afraid not of this government but of this country and that's what's bothering me. Is it daily when we see young people moving out to us until a year ago, two days ago, and I was telling the young people to stay in Croatia, don't go out, whether it's Oslo, Dublin, Canada, Ireland, Sweden. You know what I said to a young man on Monday, so go out for a year, two days, the situation will change in the country, and also in the city of Osijek where the SDP and HDZ coalition rule you'll make some money and then you'll invest in Croatia. Is this tax policy that changes from day to day, this deficit that has this irresponsibility of using public goods is not good. And that is why we in the Croatian Parliament should not ask ourselves, but rather reach a consensus on both the expenditure and the revenue side. I know the finance minister can't hit the prime minister with a fist from the table and say, this is how Croatia can perform 2015, but in 2016 we won't be able to drive. Therefore, in this Croatian Assembly, we must sharpen the pen and hit the spending side. But also reach consensus on capital investments for the future and Slavonia and Baranja, but also Croatia and the EU, as well as on the resources available from the budget. It's our only chance, that's what we have to do, because I'm afraid there's a time coming when whoever I remember in the Dnevnik once there was a greeting for the defenders wherever they were, come 2016. Therefore, the projection and the budget that follows us in the next days of 2015, the 2016 and 2017 projections, we work realistically, let us discuss it even if it should be days, agree the projects 2014-2020. Therefore, here I am also going to refer to the Minister of Finance the question from this booth, Ministers, if in this way we are in debt, what do you estimate that credit rating will be in a year and do you think Croatia will be able to borrow in 2016? The other day on the board I said you did not send projections for 2015 and 2016.Is probably expecting in 2016.game over end of the game, Croatia is not to play, Croatia must manage together so be opposition or position is what is coming to us that will be a big problem that generations will not be able to correct. Therefore, we will not support the rebalancing but we believe and hope that you will make the pen sharper when it comes to the 2015 budget projection for 2016 and 2017. I could do more about certain positions, but I'm particularly sad when it comes to capital investments for Slavonia and Baranja, they're almost gone. And also in the recent address of the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia here in the Parliament, I can admit that I was disappointed that I did not see him mention capital investments in the next time for Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, we cannot support this, but we expect maximum seriousness from you, and be sure that we, like the people of the opposition, will certainly make our contribution when talking about the expenditure but also about the revenue side for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91742	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91743	You mentioned the possible problem of the local self-government unit in the following year as a consequence of the changes in funding methods. However, one serious problem awaits local self-government because there is no transfer of funds to local self-government employees who have taken over jobs, and these are large cities and cities of headquarters and counties, works in the area of construction and spatial planning. In fact, that part of the jurisdiction business was transferred to the cities of the county headquarters and large cities, with the legal provision that for the costs of... the salaries of these employees would be paid out of the state budget. The budgets of the municipalities and cities of these municipalities, the cities are made for this year, should be realised and now we come with a budget rebalance in which the item is completely deleted. I'm afraid it'll be another reason for these cities to resort to the method of reducing their costs, and I'm afraid it'll be at the expense of the citizens again. So the fact that before the end of the calendar year we come by erasing that item just talks about our relationship to the local self-government that we say should be one of the money withdrawal generators from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91744	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91745	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, he still has to realize that you're right. In fact, as mayor of the city of Osijek, I stood up right after we took over the people to take over and finance, what was by the state, that was up until this year. Unfortunately, a rubber can erase anything, and the paper suffers everything. However, more and more local administration units are making commitments, and here I just had a Committee on Local and Regional Administration, and there we also had a fierce battle over taxes the other day on income, and today certain amendments to the laws where local administration units will lose around 2 billion kuna in the following year. There will be some compensatory measures, but it certainly won't help. And I'm afraid that what I just did in my presentation and pointed out, that there will be an increase in the price of municipal services in local administration units as compensation measures to make up for this amount that will be missing, which is 2 billion kuna. Therefore, citizens will get nothing, they will get big salaries and in Croatia there are not too many, and in Slavonia they are almost gone. But they will lose the most unemployed, people with minimum salaries, people who do not work because they will raise the price of utility services. And we come into the situation that in the next year, by increasing inflation, we will enter a vicious circle when units of local administration will end up, when the state will no longer be in debt, probably in 2016, and we are entering a general problem. We could have avoided that by not doing this, but by reducing VAT to increase consumption. That's what HDSSB stands for. But unfortunately, fellow Lesar, you were right in your thesis. The country's poor motherhood towards local and regional administration units is at stake.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91746	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91747	Here's my colleague Bubalo, as well as countless times so far, you've mentioned decentralisation again. Well, I agree with you, too, and I support decentralisation absolutely. But perhaps the best example of how you're fighting for this decentralisation is an example of jackal pharmacies and drugstores and buildings Đakova pharmacyes from Osijek. What's the motive, which is the reason for that attachment I don't know. If it's a drugstore property, I don't know. What I do know is that a study on the cost-effectiveness of attaching student pharmacies has been developed by the Osijek drugstores themselves. You support how much I understand that study and you stand behind it and at the next session of the County Assembly of Osijek-Baranja will probably also vote on that agenda point. How can I simply express myself most vividly regarding this study that was produced and paid for by the Osjek drugstores? That might be the most picturesque thing to say as if the Serbian government paid war criminal Vojislav Seselj a study on the profitability of taking over Croatian territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91748	Be a little...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91749	I'll start at the end. I think a colleague is a disgrace...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91750	Wait a minute, just a second, buddy. Let us not set inappropriate examples. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91751	I'm sorry. I was already on my way because my colleague was really inappropriate with his thesis. The HDSSB at all levels is working on regionalisation and decentralisation, it will also work in the future. I was thinking when you reported that you did something for a student's maternity ward, let's say that it helps that student maternity ward you shut down, but you're hitting on something else that's certain to make it impossible for local administration units to be available, and it's about the fact that it's a drug business that's probably going to be left to trade chains, so we probably buy a kilo of analgine or aspirin in the store, which is not good. With the amendments to the law on large cities, it will go to the point that there will be a situation because in the large cities of the pharmacy they are doing positive business, and in the smaller environments, and even in the City of Djakov, it seems to me to be negative, but in smaller areas I know that they are doing negative business. Thus, through this relationship, it is the key to making the pharmaceutical activity available and that the county is certain to continue to work. But I think it's with the law on big cities where in big cities you're going to, you know, to leave those big cities that they have, and in the units of local administrations the smaller where the pharmaceutical activity was that I'm afraid they're going to shut down. It is he that the county will not allow, that is what the HDSSB will fight for, but it is unfortunate that you in this Croatian Parliament are silent and whether it is a birthplace or a smaller place. Therefore, both regionalisation and fiscal decentralisation are needed by the Republic of Croatia, and do not be afraid of me in Osijek-Baranja County we are doing very well, as well as the smooth development of Osijek-Baranja County.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91752	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91753	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you said that public enterprises are without investment, which is true and what the former minister has elaborated here as well. Then the reduced resources withdrawn from the European Union are not met by the withdrawal of funds from the European Union. Then the reason for the budget deficits is these unfortunate floods that hit us. But I'd say something else. Namely, it is known and is not denied that 1,000 newly employed in the state administration, 1,000 newly employed, count the total gross salary, and you will see how much this is a year. To comment on journalists commenting on the budget deficit and a warning from the European Union, Mr Milanovic said he was not interested and he added ironically to that, do you think we'll give up lunch as well? When you look at the items of budget rebalancing, then you see that the government, therefore, has no measure, no kuna savings in the government's 309 million kunas. Furthermore, there is not a single drop of information in any ministry, nor in any agency. And I said that this budget was voted that 6 hundred million kunas were foreseen for information and information equipment in all ministries and all agencies. And today when you get anywhere in the garland she has nothing to do with the home office, with the police, etc. You must go all on foot, and 1,000 new employees and a great deal of information. And of course, personnel SDPs and HNSs. So we're looking at the office of the former president of the million kuna a year and we're looking at the reconstruction of the fleet in every ministry in every agency. So there are places and there are measures that can really look like savings, not just these 500 million kunas that Mr. Lalovec as minister predicted. It could have been cut and saved a lot more. Unfortunately, they don't have the courage or anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91754	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91755	Thank you very much, dear colleague Grubisic. In fact, we have well detected that the problem of Croatia was that of the construction sector, whether it is a question of investment in capital investment in Slavonia and Baranja, as well as agriculture. What concerns us is that right now public companies, public systems have failed and there has been no investment cycle and is not being prepared at this time. There is no need to negotiate and talk about EU funds at all, as Minister Grcic did not make any of the preparations and we are certainly significantly late. But I hope, as I said today, that there will be no more prognosis for us, for simply a man is afraid of his judgments. It's usually the opposite of all his judgments. When it comes to floods in Slavonia and Baranja, I am pleased that we have managed to manage one part of the funds and move from the EU around 9m euros. That fact delights me, but I expected that the restoration would go much faster in Slavonia and Baranja and that people would be in their homes this year. And I'm thinking the Resort Ministry didn't do their job, and the work they're doing is going too slow. When it comes to hiring so many people, it's just sad to see agencies every day that don't look like mushrooms after the rain. I don't know if this figure is true for a thousand, but I expect it to be discussed in this Croatian Parliament because it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. But I'm sure those lovebirds aren't welcome. But it's also not welcome to spend significant funds on a rolling stock, to spend on smart phones. No smarter government will be than smart phones, to cards, to these lunches you were talking about. But I would also like this information to bear fruit and if something were to be united in the Republic of Croatia and if citizens had easier information available. But it's a missed investment. And also, unfortunately, this government has no courage, but what is worse is that the people lose faith and hope that next year will be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91756	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91757	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President, Minister. Mr. Minister and this debate today, and your proposal to rebalance the budget, reminded me of that film saving Private Ryan. By not being on a mission to save a soldier or try to save a soldier Ryan, but to find the causes of the need for rebalancing, whether he's in bad planning or poor economic policy. And former Finance Minister Col. Linic said we have a problem on the revenue side of the budget as well. It would probably be good for the 2015 budget if we could take advice and call Matana or the old Kikaša from that series "Requests and Sons", because they obviously knew better to plan and increase the revenue side of the budget when they needed it. Incomes, business revenues according to this rebalance 2.8 billion less than planned, expenditures reduced by 70, business expenditures by 76 million and a deficit of 2 billion. It's a summary of the reason for the change in all positions later. Why lower incomes? A billion and a hundred for lower tax revenue, of which as much as 836 million for a smaller VAT. 230 million for smaller contributions and about billions and a hundred for less withdrawing funds from the EU funds. It is two billion and 400 revenue cuts, although these EU funds are not, do not affect the deficit, but they are a significant reason for reducing the budget for this year. It's an interesting line from the government's explanation, and I'm going to try to quote that since the last projection, the economic situation has changed significantly. The latest projection envisioned a gross social product of zero, and now 0.7. However, when were these last projections made? In April of this year. Hence, economic circumstances have changed significantly from April to today. They didn't do much, only the trend continued. And I'm sorry that in 2009, there was a change in the law under which the state budget is not working and does not show up to level five. Or if I'm not mistaken in 2010 was the first budget by that methodology done and I think it would be good to return the model to the state budget in the Parliament to the fifth level. The structure of savings or redistributions in the state budget is particularly interesting. The finance ministry gets 2.8% higher, culture 3% higher, construction and spatial planning 12% higher, education 2.8%. Police 2.7% lower, economy 7.5% lower, entrepreneurship and crafts 15.1% lower, agriculture 4%, regional development 12.7%, environmental protection 21.6% less than planned. This structure or savings, savings or redistributions do not raise confidence that the main congestion of development in terms of effects on the state budget will be withdrawn. I understand that in this short time it was really hard to rebalance for this year and prepare the budget for next year in terms and environments in which 318 thousand citizens are worth 29 billion kuna blocked accounts. A million people in Croatia have been practically blocked. When 53,000 business entities are blocked with 30 billion and we are back in the situation that the value of blocked accounts of citizens and business entities are almost the same. 310 thousand unemployed, 36 thousand employees are not paid, and for this reason, 32 thousand employees receive a salary less than minimum, and 38 thousand receive a salary just at a minimum of 3017 kuna gross, and that is 70 thousand people below or at a minimum. 106 thousand employees are not paid or paid to a minimum. The purchasing power per capita according to official data in Croatia is 61% of the EU, or out of 28 members, Croatia is 26th on purchasing power per capita, according to EUROSTAT's second quarter this year. 61.4% receive salary up to average and it is difficult to make a budget in a country where capital taxation is only 10.3% and in Europe 20.8% while still objecting that the tax press on capital, 1% of Croatian citizens have 73 billion savings. A quote from the finance minister a few days ago. 1% of 73 billion, and we're taxing capital at 10.3%. Very good! Taxation of consumption in Croatia is 49.1 and in Europe 28.5. And we continue with politics not to cut the consumption tax to increase it. Because we don't dare raise capital taxes. And there is further pressure on wages, with 8.8 euros in gross satin in Croatia and in Europe there is 23.7. Pressure on the deficit of the state budget, as a rule taken over across Europe, 3%, and 60% of the public debt compared to GDP. They glare at us, glare at us, and come every month and watch what we've done. And how much is the public debt of other members in the second quarter of this year? Portugal 129% of GDP, Italy 133%, Ireland 116%, France 95%, Great Britain 88%, Austria 82%, Slovenia 78%, then Croatia 77%, Malta 75% and the Netherlands 69%. If one rule cannot respect so many states and such strong economic states are guilty of these countries and their economies or rules? And when we talked about the necessity of changing the law and the possibility of the Central National Bank buying out government bonds, they laughed. They called us populists. There is now a serious debate in Europe that the European Central Bank can buy out government bonds. This is no longer populism and demagogy, because this is what Europe has begun to debate and this will introduce. While they squeezed us out and said no, try it yourself. They put a little bit of salt on their tails, so I won't be rude to them. How can Croatian large companies affect and affect the budget, economic development, investment? Just one example. Croatian Telecom, taken over by the Germans Croatian Telecom with 11 219 employees. At the end of last year there were 5620 of them now 4300. In the second quarter of this year, Croatian Telekom has 1141 students at work for 20 kuna gross per hour, 384 agency workers for 4000 kuna gross salary. The cost of workers compared to the company's income in Croatia is 15.1 in Germany 21.8.6 index points are more expensive for them than for us. And they're still firing 109 workers now these days. How much has this company invested in Croatia for the last 5 years, contributed to investments, how much has it been made out of Croatia to Germany? And the leaders of these companies continue to shout, and advocate and the big ones in Croatia have no favourable entrepreneurial climate. Remember the debate on the Labour Act, we will not create new jobs, we are opening up the possibility of replacing existing workers for cheap labour. 1140 students work in a company whose leaders are mind-blowing to all finance ministers, even blackmailing them most often. And when they were invited to talk to write off the debt to the citizens, they didn't even want to talk seriously, the operators. It's our reality. If those companies that got in Croatia if not the same, I would even say greater benefits when they entered our market, contribute nothing to economic growth, even poverty the state budget. Only for these 1140 students and 384 agency workers at the annual level, the state budget remains without several hundred million kuna taxes and nothing to anyone. These are their favourable entrepreneurial climates. And we're powerless as a state to do anything. And such companies in Croatia have more and more and more. And then comes the attack on the public sector. Everything that's public is wrong. I heard one say he was going to fire 63,000 government employees, and 53,000 are employed because he doesn't know what's public and what the state administration is, they're blabbering that kind of nonsense. Public health is being attacked, public education is being attacked, public pension insurance is being attacked and there is pressure on both the government and the Parliament to open up privatisation. After 3.4 years of public health, public education and public pension insurance will be like this example of the Croatian Telecom that I just gave you. And that's why I call for us to be very careful in preserving public health, education and pension systems and the last line of defense for every government minister has to be exactly that, do everything to keep this from being questioned. And which means excessive savings that Croatia is giving up on, Prime Minister Milanovic's quote. Three years ago, a warning that savings, I said at that time brutal savings can only produce effects for the first six months and will turn into their opposite if they do not simultaneously monitor the wave of investment, do not come new investments and have no increase in industrial production. At that time, the ruling side was a scoffing smile. Today, they can only be acidic faces because the fact that excessive savings have turned into their opposite and therefore the projection of 0.5% decrease in household consumption, so we continue, we have not stopped, we continue with the decline in the purchasing power of the population, the annual investment ratio minus 4.5 is data from budget reasoning, not mine. And just a little growth in industrial production that encourages. This budget rebalance is the result of a cynical smile 3 years ago and an excessive savings that we were doing at the time without investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91758	Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91759	Dear counterpart Lesar, you are surprised by the reduction of VAT by 1 billion kuna, but it is logical because just looking at our environment then we can say that we have the largest VAT compared to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it certainly has affected the reduction of spending in the Republic of Croatia, because I will tell you that a good part of Slavonians and Baranjac goes across the Erdud Bridge, going to Bosnia filling its consumer basket with lower prices, and that is what is the worst of Croatian products. Therefore, tax changes, laws, income taxes will not contribute to our citizens having more resources to spend but will hit local administration units and this will certainly not help these millions of people who said they have blocked accounts or millions and 200 of those who are unemployed. Therefore, it will also have no effect on the change in income tax. And if it were to encourage consumption in the Republic of Croatia, and the smaller departure and filling of trunks I would say Croatian citizens in neighbouring countries then the VAT would be reduced, which is logical if we are the most expensive in the environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91760	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91761	Comrade Bubalo, you've given a good warning, and thank you for that. This is what we had in the 1990s, and unfortunately Croatia is coming back again. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia go abroad shopping for bread, milk and basic food products, the poorest. So whether there are hungry or not in Croatia, there is no Prime Minister, there is. However, the very fact that they are going abroad to shopping for the consequence creates that Minister Lalovac has fewer tax revenues every day. I hope that the problem will not be solved by the repression of customs at the border because we will not be able to solve that problem. And not understanding the importance of starting investments, and I would say not even incompetence, I will dare say dance with the devil's wheel with those who deliberately blocked investments in Croatia to just bring it into this situation that it is possible to blackmail it every time for everyone, every occasion and constantly impose new problems. It wasn't possible to work if it wasn't for those who had the political power to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91762	On behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91763	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS of course understands the necessity to better say state finances under these circumstances at the end of the year in another budget rebalance. I'd like to talk about it on behalf of the club from smaller to bigger, than smaller to bigger. The problem of public systems and their insufficient contribution to the state budget has already been mentioned here this morning, and this is obviously a problem that I must be solved, which, of course, the Minister of Finance cannot solve for himself but can provide the necessary indicators for other ministers and for the government as a whole. If our largest public systems such as forests, such as water, such as electricity fail to fill the budget in the way it should be, then measures should be taken to ensure it. Secondly, there is no doubt that management of state assets is, most often, another important and lasting generator is the weakened potential for filling the state budget. Third, he mentioned fellow Lesar I often mentioned here nearly 200 billion kuna savings that grew year after year. I know that for the first time we discussed it then, Minister Schucker and I six, seven years ago, and we didn't even know how much that growth would be almost exponential, and it continues, although the exact indicator that you're talking about is that 1% holds almost half of it, and our predictions were then, so this data suddenly disappeared that 2% is holding 80% of the savings, then that means that we're approaching countries that have growth with inequality, and we're becoming a country without growth with growing inequality. And in this respect, we are like America and the Weimar Republic, and unfortunately in all other ways, we are approaching the countries of southeastern Europe that belonged to Greece, Italy, Portugal and the former Yugoslavia from the beginning of the 20th century. and this means countries that have failed to export labour and possibly some products that were considered domicile. For this reason, Mr. Minister, with great expectations, we are looking at your announcement about tax laws, but also at stimulating those who keep their money on banks instead of starting it for the purpose of investing or entering capital whatever it is that the state should give as an incentive to the people who have that capital. This is how we are one poor country with a renting layer that grows more and more day by day from those tiny renters with apartments to these huge renters with huge stakes in bank savings. And I think it's very important that it starts to change. When I mentioned the issue of asset management, it is certainly necessary to mention concessions. What is the state of income from the concession? Are these concessions and in what extent are they mature for review? Are these concession contracts mature to be looked at, audited, all sorts of concessions? We here are very often discussing the monetization of highways, and before we begin this debate we would like to see what is the situation with the concessions already given by the state from those for the hunting grounds of the smallest and to the large ones, we would like to see it. That depends on how our country works. The fourth thing I would like to say, and it is directly in my opinion the causes of these 2 billion kuna deficits that were not planned, but which were created on their own account because we had the right to expect European funds from European structural funds, but we did not take advantage of those funds. And now we are in a situation that we are more or less what foreign diplomats in our country have been for several years, at least 3 years since I have had some contact with European integration, European affairs, we are now in a circle of countries that are..., which are paying and not getting as much as they have paid or at best get what they have paid but we are not yet in that circle of countries. And it takes Mr. Minister, as you force everyone, all the ministries, I'm telling you this because I believe that you have this attitude and that power in you and together with the Prime Minister, as you force them to cut their costs, to make them finish this job for everyone who should be involved. This will be a great disappointment for both our country and the European Union, and that is already huge. And now the biggest thing that was opened by a colleague of Lesar here. We can continue to cut budget costs, and we can't provide any money for development and for investment, and then those branches that are still functioning in the consumption sphere will be destroyed. We have no industry, our agriculture is weak, so what we still have if this trend continues to reduce consumption, consumption comes from what the state invests in areas of education, science, fortunately here you have increased and we welcome this, at least for education, in the field of health, in the area of local self-government and administration, at least so much that they work if we can't get the money to start developing. And it's a very dangerous trend that has to be stopped. It must be stopped and we European partners must say that it is for us and our country with this state of economic suicide, and economic suicide can, of course, lead to political suicide because after that, we will only remain to watch what else we will sell from hospitals and what else we will leave out from public education to private education. From public health institutions we will leave it private, from public school institutions we will leave it private. Why? So the state can't manage, the state doesn't know how to earn, and the capital knows how to grow this many inequalities in society as they grow up by showing employment rates or unemployment and differences in the savings of citizens, while the vast majority can't plan an annual vacation of 5 days, and it was normal to go week to 15 days at sea, most normal. Not until '90, it was normal until the end of '90. Now most of our people can't do it, not even with relatives or friends. For this reason, Mr. Minister, we need to stop this kind of savings policy. You as a minister have the opportunity to influence that. Yes, you do. Some tax measures you're announcing and measures that, the stimulation you're announcing, we'll welcome and greet, but that won't be enough. This kind of cutting needs to be stopped because economists who don't just think with a political head know that the main problem isn't what the deficit is, the main problem is some other indicators. And for us, I will repeat it once again from this pay phone, as I will repeat on the budget, the main problem is that we have been without economic policy for years, without a systematic economic policy that could lead the country out of the crisis that we are in. And that's our problem, and you've certainly done what you could do at this point. If there's one thing you could do, tell these guys at HEP that when they don't have the money to electrify houses that have been waiting for electricity for 10 years, let them think about whether they have any Christmas money this year. I'd be ashamed to take a Christmas card, and every three months from this pay phone or somewhere else, you'd be warned that those people who haven't had electricity for 10 years deserve that electricity to join them. If those in the state administration and public state systems have no sense of solidarity, then they need to be taught that. I'm not surprised that someone in the private sector can't be guided by a sense of solidarity. But the one who works in the state sector has no sense of solidarity or for a moment of social status in this country, then it's no longer a question of feeling solidarity as one of the moral categories, then it's an indicator of the moral idiotism that we've entered and that people don't see, they don't recognize and they don't know they're acting accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91764	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91765	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac, you've been talking about concessions and everything that's going on around these let's say call the rental concession or whatever you want. We also know of a huge number of properties owned by the Republic of Croatia. We also know about DUDI, the State Department of State Property Management and that CERRP famous. However, I am interested in what is in the budget seems to be an increase for the State Office for State Property Management around 27%. I'd like to know what the effects of the work and the existence of that State Department of State Property Management are, and I have news, and I have some information. For example, RIZ Transmitters, which is a clean exporter, therefore almost all exports to highly developed technological countries such as South Korea, Japan, and India, BRIX countries, etc. that the State Office for the Management of State Property is blocking, so that RIZ Transmitters and what their guidelines are and what the intentions of this DUDI are, I don't know. But the employees and the RIZ administration gave me a clear signal that something is going on here, and it's in this State Department of State Property Management that is responsible for these things where concessions of state property are being done, and this CERRP is doing things, and I'm interested in the effectiveness of this DUDI which, in fact, still doesn't work like those before it were names, funds that existed of state property, etc. So we don't have the efficiency of that DUDI and it could be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91766	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91767	Comrade Grubisic, thank you for your question. That is a serious problem. But what I understand and how much I understand the current functioning of the State Office for State Property Management that was found was a state without a competitive unrecognition. The state that was found, therefore, was disastrous that the state had no record of what was hers. That's the first one. Secondly, that the state had no picture of what had happened to the property it had committed to someone, such as local self-government units, to their economic development. We notice that they did an analysis and saw what actually happened, and in most cases this property was sold out, the state gave the local self-government unit free, and the local self-government unit probably gave it to the private. Is that management? And growing nowhere. So, I'm not generalizing, I know that many have used it properly. But unfortunately, in many cases, so is the report that I had the opportunity to see. The third question remains now, so when control of data of one and another species is established how to manage it, and to make it productive. I agree there hasn't been a good key to it yet. And as for RIZ, if this is not a legal issue that DUDI cannot solve, but also needs the legal dimension of it, then I can't understand why the company is stalling in its further development if it is not a legal issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91768	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91769	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, when we talk about concessions then for years concession registers were to be established. Just as those who gave concessions from local level through ministries, offices, etc. Hiding those contracts like a snake's foot, and when that register finally came in, it's now a matter of whether or not some things are going to change. And as far as DUDI's concerned, he didn't do anything, but only the papers he had in his office put on, put them in the computer to say so, so they're now available to everyone. But otherwise, none of it's registered, or registered, and you have it in all the documents. But I answered for something else. These are EU funds. Unfortunately, the EU funds are only treated in Croatia as Croatia has the cost of joining the EU. However, you mentioned one segment, which is the electrification of many smaller places. We can talk about water supply, etc. Much could be done from these EU funds, reduced expenditures and state administrations, reduced local budget expenditures as well. But we're only loud when we talk about how much we pulled, and when you finally come because you have to see it on paper, then you can see it's not exactly like that. And any lip that comes from EU funds will reduce regardless of the position of expenditure in the state budget, will reduce expenditure at local level. I like to say when you cut it like this, just swing it, and what you cut off, it's the so-called. non-resonal cuttings that basically do more damage than good. Why? Because that cost may be multiplicative several times already appear a year, two at the same ministry because it simply wasn't done well. Any cut that does not result from reform is unfortunately something that is not good. And when you look at the European Commission's report, when you look at our fiscal commission's report, then you'll see that's exactly what it is. Everyone warns, only the government doesn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91770	Thank you. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91771	Dear colleague Shuker, as far as the concession is concerned, I remember earlier discussions on the matter and your answers and your efforts to settle the concession register. But I'm sure you agree with me that it's a state that's still completely out of control of the state, that's what you said. And it's high time for that control to be established. It is the credibility of the state on the one hand, and there is, on the other hand, the income that the state may also have units of local self-government. Of course, it's more traded than it's mastered. And that's the problem of the state that allowed the mentality of trade with the state to enter that sphere, instead of mastering it. And all when it's like that there'll always be someone who'll say so the state is a bad master. Well, of course, when there's no state the way it's supposed to be. As far as DUDI's concerned, I'd be happy to share that information with you because I'm very interested in it. So what I'm learning, my knowledge, is that it's the order when it's registered. How big and what, of course, that's another question. Perhaps the minister will be able to say something more about it since it is a question that he has no doubt about. And finally, as far as European funds are concerned, we should stop wasting our time in the process. And as we were agile to complete negotiations, we must also be agile non-sectarian... and motivated to do European projects, or programmes, and to create assumptions that we are doing so with local self-government units, with the institutions of the state and, unfortunately, we still don't recognize it. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91772	Thank you. And Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91773	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac, you're advocating a austerity policy to stop it. In fact, looking at the budget and comparing it with 2008 when we had economic growth and when the environment was much better in fact looking at that budget, we didn't even start saving. I'm afraid we're not expecting much trouble until 2016. Therefore, there are many items of unreasonable consumption and costs that are not necessary and can certainly be saved at these costs of the sea. Hence, solidarity is also needed, but it is also a great saving. However, looking at the Income Tax Act, it is certainly a major blow that is precisely going on those who have been saving from 2008 to today, and these are units of local and regional administrations that have reduced budgets from 15% and even 30%, and since 2008, the state has been growing with the budget. Therefore, we come to one of the scissors that will cut us off in 2016 but it would be good to discuss in the Croatian Parliament the topics you said, not only DUDI but also the monetization of Croatian highways and other issues that are important. But that finding that it came, when you talk about saving, that one part of the population holds 50% or two percent of 80% there is a redistribution I would say both the economy and national wealth and everything that exists in Croatia from most of our citizens to one or two percent. Thus, there are missed policies of all governments of today as well as of these today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91774	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91775	Dear colleague Bubalo, of course, I highly appreciate your experience in the field of local self-government as well as your share and contribution to the debates in the Croatian Parliament on these and other issues. I don't believe he's even a colleague of Lesar's, and I certainly didn't think about that kind of savings you're talking about. So, to rationalise consumption and to spend what is rational and found. But of course this isn't about that, it's about the management of the funds, and this is just about saying you can't spend that much. Your budget's too big. It's not 300 or 500 million kunas as much as we could save through better management, which is not the same as underestimating. Because it can be directed either for some school or for even better for some project for a unit of local self-government that doesn't have the development funds most of them neither their own nor the state. But this is about the policy of saving that's being imposed on us from the outside. The political savings that destroys the areas of our economy that we still have, that's what this is about. They were in the public sector, they were in the private sector. Go to the leading companies dealing with the area of trade and food production, and you will hear what they will tell you about the matter. The director of Croatia's leading hospital will also tell you that it destroys them equally. And we didn't start construction, infrastructure, agriculture, or industrialization. So that's what we're thinking about. And that savings certainly isn't good for us. And finally what was last in your comment, but my time is running out, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91776	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC, Novi val and National Party Reformer Vesna Skare-Ozbolt and counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91777	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's really a lot of things being said and I'm going to try not to repeat myself, but really say a few important facts for me. In these six years, we seem to be falling all the time, but we obviously don't feel like we've reached the bottom yet. This government has been chosen with the intention of making citizens better. And it's always expected to get better every year, and it's actually getting worse and worse. And this, so this is now the end of the third year, this budget rebalance as it is, is he's simply a given fact now, we can discuss it and be angry about it but unfortunately that's it. However, this is the result of poor planning, poor evaluations, and I can only really wonder at which point it was realized that there would be no growth and that there would be another rebalancing. Was that when we were doing our first rebalancing in this year or somewhere later? This is simply difficult to understand that it was not already seen to be sufficient for economic growth and economic recovery. So many promises and so many false optimism are given by the government that indeed to me, you may laugh but only one thought falls, and that's the introduction of a false promise, because there's just so much that's already been brought out and so much of it is being seduced by the people, and so are we here, because we don't get a lot of information, we don't know a lot, and it's being put into our hands, or we're bound to raise hands for here and this kind of budget rebalance. This is where the State Property Management Office was mentioned. Croatia is one of the three countries in Europe with the strongest real estate fund. A terrible potential, but unfortunately the most unsettled, the worst and not at all useless in approximately 60% of cases. And that's bad. The state property management office did good things for me, introduced a property register, of course not all property was introduced, I don't think 30% of the property was introduced but it's impossible to introduce, but that property when and you introduce what with it? Many of these are already the best assets handed over to local administrations and self-governments who, as already said, have either sold out or do not know how to manage it and are practically dead and unused. Croatia had the opportunity to build a prison real estate fund from its entire state potential, to give in concessions of all those properties, before setting up spatial plans for the whole country that it has not yet made, it has not made such a real estate fund, it could earn on concessions quite nice money. Unfortunately, we didn't do it. And the State Property Management Office listed 100 potentially great pearls of Croatian real estate this summer, but unfortunately no competition has been announced so far. And the investors we so wish for, unfortunately, we have no idea how many of them there are in the low start that are waiting, but unfortunately they wait in vain because there is no competition, the interest of the state bodies is neither to be accepted nor to talk to them, let alone to get into business with them, and that is a serious problem. And this is the land of absurdity, that we wait so long for investors, they're here but we don't see them, we don't recognize them, and they go somewhere else. We don't even know how to put elemental accidents into function. These people are protesting from the Gorski Kotar, logically protesting because their life has become impossible, but for a year we've been on the highway and we've been seeing those ugly frozen trees that have been completely untapped. So because the government couldn't make a decision about public works and cut down all those trees, take them to Austria, make money on them, and share those money with people? But no one thought of that in this country. We're totally complaining that we don't have any money, on the other hand, we don't even know how to create an atmosphere of work and production and what little money we have. Unfortunately, a lot of investment stands because simply red tape is so uninterested in the job that for a long, long time nothing can be done. And that's why this economic crisis is actually a major psychological crisis in the country. And in the fourth year of the government's mandate, unfortunately, there will not be much more to change nor will there be any major twist, nor will it be better for citizens than perhaps some promises because no structural major reform has been implemented. It wasn't implemented because there was no political power for it. And that's why we have the kind of rebalancing we have and the mirror is going to be the budget for next year. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91778	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here is my colleague, Skara-Ozbolt, who has finished her presentation with the reforms, I find very likable. On behalf of the club, I'll say a few more things and our observations to this financial document ahead of us. Although what will be said will not change these figures because they are a reflection of what has passed, but this financial document is extremely valuable to see what is waiting for us and what is really our reality, to draw conclusions where everything has failed to do things right and that, possibly in the context of the adoption of a future budget that is already formed, but there is some hypothetical possibility of changing, to see what is waiting for us and what we need to do in future, which are fundamental failures. The first thing by looking at this document that's come into my eyes is something amazing, it's an index of 72.5 European funds, more clearly said from the funds withdrawn 3 billion and 40 million kuna and a couple of million kunas, membership fee 3 billion 600. Planned 4 billion and 200, a bribe of nearly a billion and 200 million kunas on revenue from European funds and a final consensus that what should have been an advantage and a benefit from our EU membership becomes a ballast and a burden on the finances of the Republic of Croatia. So the part of the deficit we have afforded in this year stems from the fact that we were unable to take the money provided to the Republic of Croatia from European funds. It's almost incredible, but it's a fact. Now, cry out because we haven't taken it might be too pathetic, but open up a debate about it and ask that from... politics go into concrete policy and start operating on it it is our duty in this House, regardless of the political parties, as colleague Bubalo does not have it, said the time has come to achieve consensus on some things in this House and to say mea culpa of those who are responsible, and not to give public explanations how wonderful everything is. And that reminds me of those phrases from the posthumous years of World War II when it was said that the biggest pumpkins were growing in the Soviet Union. We're not growing ladies and gentlemen, we're in a banana, it's being read out of this. What are we doing? We cut investment in roads so it's very interesting to look at what it looks like, so it tells you to invest in the state road according to programs less than 362 million kuna position 103 in a special section related to Croatian roads, the construction program of fast roads less 275 million, the rest of the procedure programmes on state roads less 138 million kuna. Does anyone think it's savings if we don't keep state roads and think if someone thinks that what we're going to save on the eye today is going to be two or three years through rapid decay, so not only the surface layer of asphalt but the complete road due to non-maintainment, multiple as cost. And what particularly affected me was 26 million and 920 thousand kuna denivelization program of road crossing insurance. The other day, four people died at a train crossing. Are there criteria in this country? Does anyone realize that A) we strangled or did not use nearly 600 million kuna from that source of income that must be one through one for investment, that this document says that the reduction in public investment in the Republic of Croatia is 18% less than planned, and we are aware that we have the abstinence of the private sector for more reasons when it comes to investment in the public sector and that our investment in the public sector and the withdrawal of money from European funds is, in fact, the only real thing right now, unfortunately, life-saving generators. We are discussing railways, today we have touched Croatian railways several times and we are discussing the competitiveness of the company, how HZ will be competitive when we have on the table this moment who is interested in frapantic data, which is that on certain shares and on certain railway lines from point A to point B the average speed of rail compositions today is the speed registered in 1904 when they were driving steamers from General Caster's time. How responsible is it to absorb from investment in railway infrastructure and to keep HZ alive? I mean, what do we need an HH without a railroad? What do we need from this railway company, and these same railways, European policy recognises as one of the justifiable infrastructure investments. One of the eligible infrastructure investments, an investment that can be withdrawn from European funds, and we from these funds minus 600 million kuna. I'm not used to calling names, people who are responsible, but some ministers in this government are expected to, but now, really, as much as I'd like to be private, to reevaluate themselves and possibly question the need to go home and do business that they know. I'm very sorry to have to say this today after three years at this pay phone, but it's like that, it's just like that. The decline in income in the position of contributions from pension and health care suggests a real drop in employment in this country in this situation and in such frameworks expect private investment to trigger the economy illusoryly. How ready we are and how many other resolutions are not the Ministry of Agriculture, but other resolutions have left room for the Rural Development Programme and, for example, the European Fisheries Fund to withdraw money in the coming years, this is a special topic. I'm a little 52 seconds away from commenting. 700 thousand acres of agricultural land where are we today? Real estate issues on agricultural land, and properties that are in the so-called The ownership of the Croatian state, the level of use of state property for potential investments, a whole series of things that have actually led us to such a complex financial document, and its figures and what it points to is devastating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91779	At the presentation of counterpart Vesna Škara-Ozbolt replica Boro Grubišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91780	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues Škare-Ozbolt, you spoke about the situation we face in the economy and in the financial situation of the Republic of Croatia, and you see talk and officials, current officials of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I have already said that at the European Commission's remarks on the deficit of the Republic of Croatia's budget, I am not interested. After that he said what to deny from lunch, we take austerity measures to deny lunches. Mr. Lalovac said two months ago that Croatia is already in debt slavery. It's yours, here it is... to know that I'm not telling the truth. To this remark by the European Commission, the Vice-President of the Government said we will have to lay off workers in the public sector or reduce their wages. To this, the second vice-president of the government will have to strengthen administrative capacities as they have been strengthened so far with 1,000 new employees, and similar experts, call an expert from ruling parties. What can I say and what can you say? Well, that's one thing, what we got today is not a rebalance, it's a imbalance or a imbalance, or what we'd say by medically simple disorder, total financial disturbance, and we actually have one chaos, an attempt at suggestion, an attempt at anything in this situation seems to me, I'm not going to say that it's unexplainable, but I think we would, and I haven't raised a replica of Mr. Baranovic, some things we should do exactly as he suggested. Some people really didn't deserve their resources and you can see the complete incompetence, ineffectiveness of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91781	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91782	Dear colleague, you have actually described the situation as seen in the European Commission. I talk very often there with my colleagues and really Croatia does not enjoy some particular credibility when it comes to investment relations, especially when it comes to withdrawing funds from European funds. And when you see curves and optimism that the Vice-President of the Government in charge of the Funds extends to the curves that come from the European Commission that are in an uninterrupted fall or stagnation when it comes to withdrawing funds available to Croatia, then you can see that unfortunately we do not have enough knowledge or capacity. And we can hire 300 and 1000 people, but unfortunately that doesn't work. One Poland is a tiger today, and Croatia has become a rabbit. One of Slovakia and the Czech Republic live well, and Croatia has practically turned into something that resembles some of the old times that both Czechs and Slovaks have been through in life. And unfortunately, in 10 years, one Poland has made a 150% growth, and in those 10 years, we have gone back terribly. And that's the problem we have. And unfortunately, after three years, as many as some in the government should leave, I don't think so, the damage has already been done. It is a pity that key elements have not been withdrawn, and these are reforms and structural reforms, and that has passed. And now and when there's a new government when it does this empty space will feel for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91783	On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague will speak... I'm not listed here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now I'm here to chair... But if you've reached out to the replica, then replicate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91784	Comrade Scare-Ozbolt, do you really think if something is put on the screen that you're going to change something with? So nothing in DUDI happened revolutionaryly, all these papers existed somewhere, now they're placed to see them all, but it's crucial whether anything changed in the management of that property. If the Minister of Justice says that only 17% of the property in the garter is registered through the OIB, if the European Commission says that the key problem of this property that Croatia has is not in land books, etc., and if you do not have something in the land books, you can practically not handle it. The second thing, I remember how many years it took for us to finally remember 120 properties owned by the Croatian Army and declare them unspective that they could actually be placed on the market, so if someone is interested in working with them and very attractive properties, they are also Coopers, so it took almost 7-8 years. And when we finally did what was done now, did we call some kind of contest? If you do not call a tender and if nothing else to inform you about whether anyone is interested in it at all, whether or not it is under any conditions of interest because you sometimes get from the tender from the bidders in principle to know why the market is interested and maybe you get some knowledge that you didn't have, that if you adapt to it you can sell far better and better and the state can earn more from them than it does from this. Unfortunately for us, many objects, especially in the tourism and agriculture sectors, are empty as they are, but I say we and the defence register, how many false defenders today.... We published a list of debtors, how much of it was charged? Nothing, God knows what. We published a series of these, however, a key problem that happened specifically after that. Unfortunately, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91785	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91786	Dear colleague Shuker, I still think it is necessary to make a quality register of state property for several reasons. First, that the state knows what it has. Secondly, that investors who are interested in either buying or if I am not a supporter of selling assets I am a supporter of giving in long-term concessions. But the investor must have the opportunity to see what it is, to which the Republic of Croatia is all registered at least on those properties he is interested in. It will be a very long period of years if the property of the Republic of Croatia is recorded at this rate, and it will still be years and years, and unfortunately Croatia will not be able to put its greatest real-estate potential into full operation. We were talking, and I'm going to remind you of something else for the marine goods register. But this maritime goods register is as if the general danger is mentioned, the one who does this is probably going to be beaten in the dark because it practically puts the most valuable thing Croatia has in order and in transparency, and it obviously does not suit some and it is the same problem. The introduction of order into this country does not suit many. These are some forces that stand by, which draw strings, which you don't see, but you feel them. And that's why, unfortunately, the good part of the situation is what it is. A large number of people today who want to withdraw money from structural funds can't do that because they don't have a clean ownership list. And you can have no experts to help you if you don't have that basis, and that's property you won't be able to withdraw the money. And so we'll spin around in circles, constantly in circles. And instead of DUDI introducing three shifts to work in property-legal services to make as many The property entered unfortunately everything goes as if we were a country with the highest degree of pleasure and wealth. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91787	We are now continuing the debate by clubs, so I invite my esteemed colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic, to come to the pay phone and present the views of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Although there aren't many of us in the assembly as the cameras shut down during the morning here's so few of us here. However, I believe that this one,......... Yes, I know that the broadcast is on internal television, and I believe that these further discussions and my debate will continue to contribute in essence to what Croatia expects tomorrow, not just a rebalancing which is obviously one of the facts that we are discussing today. [[You can't hear it.]] On behalf of the club, I will present a few thoughts, i.e. the views that are important in voting on rebalancing, we know what is what, which party, which policy thinks is good, or that it is not good. But what's most important is what's coming for us tomorrow. What we had in the first rebalancing, which is to remind us that all the necessary structural measures of 2.3% of GDP are implemented on the revenue and expenditure side in line with the recommendations of the EU Council should be said that the government has been quite successful on this issue. So 0.9% of structural income and 1.3 expenditures that can't be said that the government didn't work, that it didn't show fiscal effort, that it wasn't working on what it did to itself. Whether that was enough to be seen in the rebalancing isn't, but it can't be said that the government has not shown its efforts, that it is doing structural reform of those she said, those reforms that she specifically said regarding the income and expenditure side of the budget. It's quite clear from this rebalancing that part of the expenditure that wasn't planned happened and it's a clear fact that it's written here and it would be completely absurd to say that it's not happening. And it's just a message and a fact to point out to the government, or certain ministries, that they have to comply with what we want here in the Croatian Parliament, with what the government is planning, which is that the optimism that exists, and I will later say why planning must be realistic. Obviously, in certain ministries, it wasn't well planned or over-optimistic most often, and that's why we have this rebalancing here today. It should also be noted that when we talk about optimism this year we have growth in industrial production, we have a growth in exports. We have an export growth of about 9 and a half percent in the EU, almost 9% in the Member States in nine months. We have better export coverage with imports, so industry to better cover exports of imports. In any case, the industry is recovering. The shock that was expected to lose CEFTA countries is obviously not the kind of atmosphere was created, and we know that it was a negative big atmosphere in this matter, and space has opened up, and obviously the economy and industry have accepted and received this opportunity by entering the EU and taking advantage of it. Is that enough to grow a gross product, is that enough to make the gross product in plus, is that enough to increase the employment that is needed in Croatia? It's not. But these are obviously trends and arguments and these governments are certain to indicate that we can expect an exit from the crisis. That's the facts. As the fact that the 2015 planning should be realistic and that this planning with these facts and implementation of all the structural measures that have been launched can be expected to be in line with not only what the EU says but also what the Croatian government and this coalition intend to do. I would also like to point out on this point that when we talk about increasing public debt, we must include new methodologies and the ESA 2010 which has been the last and which since September in the option, which includes those debts which have not been included before and which still existed. Let me just point out that, for example. 80 guarantees amounting to € 56.7 billion were granted for road traffic in the Republic of Croatia from 2001 to 2013 and 18 billion for three companies, Croatian roads, Croatian highways and ARZ for the next 4 years, including this year. So when we discuss both the public debt and the deficit, and when we have to pay those loans, then we have to make sure that even when we talk about the rebalancing and the future budget, we have to make sure that it involves five to seven billion kunas just to return those loans that didn't take this government, the most was taken from 2009 to 2011. I'll go back to rebalancing and economics. There have been a lot of talks in the debate not only on structural reforms that are needed and are really needed to carry out much stronger and much stronger but without the growth of the economy there is no such thing as reforms that will solve both the growth of gross products and employment and deficits and the growth of budgets. Not much debate is being discussed about private investment, but at this point in various stages, which means from a building permit, started projects or at the end, there are 10 projects worth 242m euros in the pharmaceuticals sector. In the tourism sector, 2 billion 694m euros. In the manufacturing sector, 350m euros and in the service sector, 382m euros. It's that segment of private investment, capital investment, manufacturing, tourism that's under way. That is why this year's growth in private sector investment is 4 times higher than last year. It's part of these numbers that I've now said, one large part of about 4 billion is in preparation for the Investment and Competitiveness Agency and the Strategic Investments Act. And including, I repeat, the growth of industrial production and the growth of exports to the Republic of Croatia in continuity this year, which means it's not a temporary situation or some coincidence, it clearly shows that with the real planning of the future budget, not in this way as this rebalancing was, which is why this rebalancing brought Croatia next year has a real opportunity, real not only optimistically, to get out of the crisis and to contribute to the development of this country and to reducing the debate on the banana state, about a government that has no vision, which does not know what it is doing, etc. As far as EU funds are concerned, it is clear that a billion and 200 million are being undermined. There is more reason, but one of the more important is that those key tenders to go to railways and roads by withdrawing funds, and not only by issuing from the budget, we were late in negotiations and agreements with the EU to get an envelope from which we could launch the competition. Part of the government's guilt, and part of the objective circumstances that we entered into the EU during the new budget of 2014-2020, in which all countries had to do their new programmes, starting from Poland, which did so in March, that is, April, to those of us who agreed on it in the 10th month. And that's why most of the tenders... that we were supposed to have planned to go out and that we could negotiate and withdraw funds in that case were delayed. The HNS Club will support changes and additions to the 2014 Croatian budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91789	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, the esteemed Peter Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, somehow three years ago we were together, you mentioned optimism, imported optimism, came from Dalmatia you and I and we know each other too well that you wouldn't feel when you were bluffing. And you bluffed when it comes to EU funds. Of course, there are several reasons and of course there is no guilt mortgage exclusively on any single minister or government. And that's true. However, if part of guilt and responsibility, if 10% is missed because of inaction, due to negligence, easy access to the problem, then there is clear political responsibility, collective and particular. As far as investment is concerned, road maintenance is not a matter that goes to EU funds, railways yes, but the maintenance of roads does not. There will be damage to the road's failure to maintain it will show time. But I'm going to open another investment story, and that's HEP. When due to bad business circumstances we raised the price of electricity came two good hydrological years, HEP ended up one and the other with an extremely good result financially, a profit was created that was invested in almost nothing. Two are... investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] New hydropower that creates a new value, encourages employment, activates the construction sector. And the other thing, investments for which no god needs to be prepared, which is to be maintained in a distribution network in which the note is recorded by Croatia's electricity industry amongst the biggest losses, and these are the financial losses that ultimately contribute to this state of such a rebalancing, nothing has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91791	Replication response, dear Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91792	Your esteemed colleague, of course, is very interesting about bluffing. However, even colleagues from the opposition are clear and consensual, and this is known to be a million and two hundred million not withdrawing funds from the EU funds are neutral about this rebalance itself, they are of course not neutral when we talk about this type of investment having certain effects and direct ones that strengthen the economy, but directly for the budget are absolutely neutral. As far as European funds are concerned, regardless of what is less than a billion and two hundred this year, these funds are not lost, these funds are just something that we all hold together, and we control and monitor that all these contracts that are signed and competitions that will go, that the next year increases much more than possible and what is planned. And I believe that these 2015 budgets will be unlike this year's conservative and that at the end of the year we'll say that it worked. And as far as optimism is concerned, I'm also saying there's no bluff. Take industrial production, take export, the data is exact. You mention Croatia's electricity industry, so you obviously know a lot better than I do, so I leave you to further elaborate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91793	Second replica of the esteemed Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91794	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Gjurkovic, you said this rebalancing was justified because part of the expenditure that wasn't planned to happen. So obviously both the presidential elections and the election campaign were not planned so far, it happened, and only now do we plan something new with the rebalancing. In the Office of the President of the Republic, we can only assume what persons are and what purpose they are engaged in. That item is increasing by 200 percent, so times 3. How can you justify it in this crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91795	Replication response, dear Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91796	Dear colleagues, your question, your replica is related to a pre-election campaign and attempts of course to give the president a negative point in the sense that he spends more, that he unjustly spends, etc. etc. which is your democratic right and I have nothing to say about it, I have nothing to add, I mean it's your right and I absolutely respect it. However, the state audit, which both the ministry and the president's office and all the companies controls and monitors, indicates that all of this is legitimate and that all of this is necessary when it is being handled. So, this political segment that you're talking about, I'm not going down to this level right now about the debate on the flags that are being shared, it's much more important to me, it's much more crucial to me that the next year's planning of all the ministries has no unplanned costs, as we've had in this rebalancing of certain ministries. And that's basically the key, the key that interests the citizens. And whether the president's office has increased or at some point reduced the cost is the issue of his work, his responsibilities, and as far as I know, the president of the Republic has confidence, however, most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91797	The last replica, the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91798	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, I don't know what you're building your optimism on, but I'll tell you that the VAT revenue reduction was 1.3 billion kuna, the profit tax is 259 million kuna, the tax on the contribution of 238 million kuna, the total foreign debt is more than 46 billion kuna, the increase in the first five months was a billion kuna, and that debt came to you from the state sector, the deficit planned 12, has already come to 16 billion kuna. But yesterday, bank analysts and experts told you that their forecasts they said would be up by 0.7%, have now been corrected and say it would be a 0.2% drop, most of all in industrial production and exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91799	Replication response, dear Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91800	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I don't build optimism on the expenditures of the state budget and revenues in 2014 where they are who they are, and on that point I was critical on behalf of the club and warned about what was quite clear that certain expenditures had been breached and that it was pre-optimistically planned. However, when we talk about industrial production and exports when we even talk about private sector investments that are under way and which show this year that investment growth is 4 times larger than last year is something that is quite logically optimistic for next year than to discuss that it is not good, it does not make sense. So these are facts. And when we talk about the development of the Republic of Croatia and at this point about tourism which is somehow the bearer of good vibrations to say it so in Croatia, but we are aware that tourism is not the one that can be the basis but all the cities of production and we want to do it, the growth of production of industrial and growth of exports and products and goods is not just the service of something that is realistic optimism. And that is why I look with optimism at 2015 by criticising the natural rebalancing that we have here and discussed and what is one fact that is a good fact when it already happened next year we can have a real budget with real planning and a normal exit from the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91801	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First honourary colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91802	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91803	I'm sorry, colleague Boric. I forgot the minister called. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here's after all the clubs just a brief review of today. I have to admit that regardless of what we say here, I have to say that your remarks today were well-intentioned, precisely because you located most of the activities that individual resolutions need to carry out in order to achieve certain economic growth. Today, you have more focused on the debate, not because of that on the dissenting side, you have mentioned certain cuttings or reducing certain non-execution of that part of the budget, especially in those parts that have had to be an incentive for economic growth because, apart from the deficits, the key problem is the economy, the fostering of economic growth and the role of the state to start this wheel as soon as possible. In short, so all of what you said today is very well located and I just have to agree with you. And the pressure that I felt today, not that you directly directed at me, is the pressure that should be worn by any resolute minister or clerk or official who manages it. Is that if you say that this pressure is gone it will simply be asked a question that works well, but on these things you've located today we can't and we can't in the future is it too serious that what I've been saying today we can't have any idea that it won't happen. It was the management of state assets, certainly very high potential not only to obtain a certain revenue side of the budget which is not at all important at this time but is important that the assets are put into operation and that it is given to the economy and private persons to manage this property because through the management of this property there will be a better realization of this revenue side of the budget. The EU funds certainly say, for the finance minister not only here in Croatia but when it goes and out, I recently told the GSV to blush to pay more than we receive, I say it openly. I say this openly, and I think it is the most difficult Minister of Finance to know that it has to pay 3.6 billion kuna in the EU budget because we are taking care of each kuna is that it is normal, and when you see that no matter what the reasons are in the long term, and in the long run, it means not when I say that this will be a problem of public finances in 3 or 4 or 5 years, but in the coming year, if it happens again, I have publicly said that this is a serious problem not only of the government but of the essential administration on the withdrawal of funds. Is the time to withdraw we no longer have, we entered into this process of withdrawing funds and simply today we may not have lost that money, but we lost it through... the cost, we lost it because we didn't hire, because we didn't have free sources of funding as sources of funding. And we don't have them free because we paid 3.6 billion kuna, so that's not free. So the criticisms that have come for the withdrawal of the entire administration that appears on the EU funds are, in my opinion, a question for Croatia, this government and all of these next one of the fundamental issues. And not to pull 3.6 to be zero but to have to withdraw 7, 8 and 9 is the only way to start reducing public debt, to start reducing deficits or to start converting those rates of economic growth, and that the share of public debt that is today is very high not only because it is generated by the central state but also because according to the new Eurostat methodology, HZ, Croatian highways, Croatian roads have already been, so in the long run, they will have to make difficult reforms in their sectors. But unless I say we make a mistake about withdrawing those funds, then it will be very, very difficult for each of the next governments to control public finances. Today, there was also a policy of speech here on poor investment of public enterprises. I have to agree with you again. Companies that when you look at them for capitalisation and when you look at the possibility that they can get guarantees from the central budget of the Ministry of Finance, so that they can get, HEP can be in debt, can issue bonds, is well capitalised. Other public companies receive guarantees from the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, unlike other companies that are difficult to obtain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91805	Minister's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91806	It's hard to win, it's hard to get the money. So once again, I thank you for today's debate, and I think it was well-intentioned, so it's not critical, and it needs to be in that context. And here's hoping that even colleagues who will actually pass on, and I keep telling them that they will realize the seriousness that there must be deep changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91807	Thank you. An individual debate. First honoured Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the second time. Here's to saying something about this agenda point, budget rebalance for 2014. I see that a large part of the MPs, no matter what the transfer exists, are not interested, are moving away from this economic policy of the government. But I will begin my debate with a famous saying by our prime minister who says, "Even if we don't do anything, something will happen." That's what he said last year sometime in the 7th month if I'm not mistaken and I think it's a great match for this budget rebalancing story. Because what happened, it happened that nothing was done, and it resulted in the same achievement, rebalancing again. Three years of five rebalancing, in 2012, one, two and two again in 2013. Eight times means we're talking about a basic government document that projects every policy it has on a daily basis. In addition to five rebalancings, this government has managed to earn with its policy and five referendums so that it makes it unique in history. I've recently talked about what happens when people keep trying to tell something that's not true, when that truth is avoided because I feel like this government lives on a cloud, we don't know its name, and they don't want to tell us what it's called that we move there, because that kind of optimism keeps going on every year, third time in a row, it means in another. We always settle accounts at the end of the year between the great desires of the authorities they promise at the beginning of the year and very modest achievements at the end of the year. Then it's leveled, they all conclude that they were failed, failed and that it's just something to be adopted and we move on. They say that a man gets habits during his life, and then habits shape his life, and that suits this government very well. It's really in three years' worth of habits, I'll say bad habits, little or nothing works, we can always borrow 20 billion still, if we miss somewhere we can borrow, we can always have rebalancing, there we can fix, and at the end of the year we can make all that into a new budget for next year, promise one optimism for next year and continue on the same model already here almost four years now. Even times and ways are the same. Last year, too, we adopted the rebalancing for 2013 and the 2014 budget. I guess that's how this year will be, and the rebalancing for 2014, probably also the 2015 budget. Nothing changes. What did it look like last year when we were making a budget? They've all been and sprayed with optimism. We haven't brought it yet, we've caught the excessive deficit procedure. And the prime minister says that, it is no punishment for Croatia, it is a mechanism that will help without political calculations, be careful without political calculations and delaying to the end to bring order into the system and implement reforms. All well said, but none of it inaction, no reform. The only reform we've heard from the public is to hire PR agencies to make us beautiful and always look good on the outside. And then we get to rebalance or budget and all the numbers say something different from what people are interpreting. I remember the first rebalancing here. He was Minister Linic, Prime Minister in Australia and I asked him then if you had the Prime Minister's support for what you're offering, whether he would stand behind your intentions, the programs you're offering us through rebalancing, he said he had. After two months, we realize he didn't have one. He's been relieved, a new minister has arrived, but we're moving on. I don't think the more failed government in Croatia's history on the other side has had this kind of stability. Well, look. So everybody's gonna do it again, it's gonna be 80 again and some hands for this rebalancing. I don't know if we're self-destructive, whether we as Parliamentarians don't think or if we're all ready together with this government to go bankrupt. I'm against it. So I don't know why, then, by ruling us persistently, I say by voting these documents, they all go bankrupt together. As the current minister explained, who is to blame for this budget rebalance. In the 7th month, he said it was a bad tourist season, then the tourism minister came and he said she was great, the best so far. Okay. Then comes the second explanation, says it's not our fault, the wrong countries are in the environment, even worse ones are standing up than we are. Well, I'm not so sure. They don't rebalance every day budgets there. And then the third explanation, it's all right, gentlemen, the main thing is that there are insurance salaries, pensions and social benefits. Everybody stay calm. And that's it. These are very simple explanations. That's how the budgets are explained. And then I hear what we just heard, and now compare to what Minister Greek says. The Minister of Finance says we haven't withdrawn enough funds, when we have a report on the EU funds, so I can't boast about how much of these funds we've agreed on, how much we're going to withdraw, how much of it will come into the Croatian register. And then the finance minister comes in dead cold says so that's one of the reasons why we're worse this year, because we're making more payments than we're taking. What's going on? And then they tell us in opposition you pour ink, and we're optimists without cover. And that's it. But I don't think it's a serious Croatian policy, because what we have to do is be serious and tell people the truth. Why won't I support this rebalancing? I already pointed that out in my current class. I don't support ministers who spend as if they don't care and insist and insist on it, and someone allows them to. Because the government can't tell one of you to save at all levels, you have to give up, and someone can do what the Minister of Environment does. Strong money in any project that won't result in any savings and won't do any better for this country. Now I will return to my favorite ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development. Why? When we started in 2012, he had a billion and 500 million kuna budget. Look at the budget rebalance where we are now? 649 million kuna. 900 million kunas less, 120% weaker in the ministry than in 2012, in two years. Is this a serious development policy towards the regions of undeveloped and assisted areas? Is that it? Well, there's no rebalance that this ministry doesn't fall a hundred million kunas in failing to implement its programs. They don't realize their programs. When you get there to ask someone we have projects, local self-government has hundreds of projects with construction documentation. No money, it's all spent, it's all arranged, it's gone. Let's take a look at the Department of Transport and Communications? 160 million less. The only thing that grew there was a subsidisation of mail from 140 to 100 million kuna. Obviously, this company is going in the wrong direction, too, so it needs to be added to 60 million. So this year 100 million Croatian mail. Luka Rijeka - 25 million kuna for the port development project. For Gagenica -31 million kuna. To boost lines -27 million. We're at 302 million. What they offer us as a substitute that I, in my four-member family with one car, have to have five cards to buy a ferry ticket, five plastic cards offer me to buy a ferry ticket. Is that progress? Is that pulling out of some kind of crisis, out of recession. Well, my people, they're unserious things. So I say, habits are bad. It's a habit of having two rebalances a year and spending as much as anyone wants. It's a habit of borrowing 20 billion a year. It's a habit for ministers to have no responsibility, not even to save some. It's a habit of adopting a budget like this, as usual. It is a habit, gentlemen, that this budget has a negative impact on life in this country. That's why I, gentlemen, strongly recommend that, instead of adopting this budget rebalancing, we go to some kind of rehab program without the ministers themselves, so that they start to get a little out of this power, because I don't really see a different solution for this country. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91809	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91810	You said, in the introduction of your presentation, that is, you quoted the Prime Minister as saying that nothing is going to happen. He had these statements all over the place. He said we had plenty of food, he said he knew what floods were because the tap broke in his apartment. The Greek minister, or vice-president of the government, also said in the last session, that, in the current hour, he was spreading optimism. And today we could hear and see the minister of one of the few who honestly told us what happened in Croatia. It all stopped. Croatia is paying more for the European Community than it is pulling out of the EU. We've based the budget on an economic growth of 1.3%. Then corrected by first rebalancing to 0.2%. Now the projection is -0.7%. On what basis did the government base its optimism. Now we see what happened and one of the last sentences of the minister here we could all hear in what situation would be the government that took over the government behind this government. It seems to me at the end of it all that the opening line of your sentence, the quote of the Prime Minister, even if nothing was done, something would happen, perhaps good. Here today we also discussed the Gorski Kotar, which means taking the budget. We talked about the budgets of the local self-government units, which are once again being used by new laws, impose new obligations. How we're going to finance project documentation, how we're going to run for European funds, which is what God knows. What they're doing has nothing to do with a healthy brain anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91811	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91812	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Klaric, I agree with you because the new Regional Development Act plus in the new Income Tax Act package is one way to bring some local self-governments to the edge of sustainability alone, and then to start and to stop, because someone has estimated that many of them are not able to take care of the area where they are formed and that this country obviously makes it a problem. We always claim, and we've always acted the other way around. No one can convince me that the new Regional Development Act is based on the principle that the Prime Minister also said some new justice and solidarity. It is not fair that he who does not have to be taken from him and given to him who does not. So it's not justice, it's just another bad attempt to show something is done. I cannot understand a government that wants to lead a serious regional development policy that the Regional Development Act brings in the last year of its term of office. I mean, if you want to deal with it seriously, then you bring it in the first, no later than the end of the first year to get a certain effect for three years. What about the new Regional Development Act in 2015? What are we going to do when all the ones inside are indexed into losing their support? So who in Croatia is normal for us to determine that the municipality of Vir is the most developed municipality in the Republic of Croatia? Over 150% has an index, the Vere municipality. Because there are a lot of objects, and there are not even 2,000 inhabitants, many of whom have not even solved the basic communal infrastructure. It means that what former Linic said in addition to those indices was to find parameters that would single out yet assisted areas of PPDS, islands and mountainous areas and allow for different systems. And with that, people would kind of agree, like this again in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91813	A new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Boric, when you look at the opening explanation of this budget rebalancing, says in one part of page 3: "A significant reduction in income from aid is expected primarily because of the weaker withdrawal of EU funds and says (1.2 billion kuna) in brackets which are neutral at the deficit." We have had the opportunity to listen for the past months about great work, about the strong withdrawal of funds from European funds, but now that it has come to an end and finally needs to be shown then it is shown that this year we will be incometing a billion and 200 less than the EU funds, i.e. that our net effect of this exchange is going to be negative with the EU. But very interesting here is the explanation, he's neutral to the deficit. Yeah, maybe when you look at it this statistically and mathematically, but when you take what could have been financed through these billions and 200 million, then it's certainly not neutral, but it's very much affecting the deficit of the state budget. Because he would certainly hire a number of Croatian citizens and then macroeconomic indicators regarding employment and unemployment would be different. It would certainly have been done which infrastructure project, so perhaps some local self-government unit in its budget would need far less resources. But what is unfortunately said all year round about the great withdrawal of funds from the EU is now being denied by this government, its president and its vice president. But what is far more worrying is that those who were unable to withdraw funds this year say they will withdraw almost 150% more than this year next year. And that says, unfortunately, in the budget next year too, we will have terrible problems, regardless of what EU funds say is neutral at the deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91815	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91816	Comrade Shucker, I agree. Why? Because I think that in this respect we all agree that the funds were one of the benefits of joining the EU, that citizens were expecting EU assistance and that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is one of the foundations on which unemployment and future development in the Republic of Croatia should be addressed. And in both areas and in this rebalancing, we record minuses. The finance minister for the first time publicly here has denied all the words and ministers so far on the issues of funds and says it is difficult for him to accept that we are paying more than we are going to make in the budget. And next year, it'll be two and a half years of their term of office, and we'll record the minuses. Let's look at the divisions of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises. 120 million kuna less in the Ministry of Economy for our industry. 121 million less to boost the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. 100 million less producers in agriculture. In March, 150 million kuna was cut to finance entrepreneurs through HBOR. 49 million kuna subsidies for farmers, 165 million kuna for capital investments. The shipyards took down 110 million and 50 million kunas for fishing. On the one hand, we're talking about how we're very encouraging it, how we're doing it with great skill to solve unemployment, and then on budget rebalancing, you see that everything that was meant for them is being taken down by this government. The foundation of development is coming down, the foundation. And we're talking about how we're gonna be better next year. This way certainly not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91817	A new replica, respected Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91818	Thank you, Vice President. You initially said that the former finance minister said we had a bad season. I think you said wrong because he said we had a pre-season, and we all know that the 6th month and the statements that were there in the 7th month were a bad situation. But you also said that the Minister of Tourism boasted that we had an extremely good season. Yeah, and he boasted about it at the end of the season. The difference is when you talk something... anything that suits you and what you think is better to hear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People do know that, though. You also said that we canceled to go now five tickets should buy new tickets so you can go on the ferry. Yeah, we need to buy five tickets to register so we don't buy 20 tickets a day, so we share them. You know well that they've done it before and they've done it yesterday and today it's still done. So we're introducing a line. No, it can't be order. We've learned to be everything, it can't be right. Also in terms of funds, the EU funds said the minister did not withdraw all funds, but are in preparation to withdraw so that next year we will have a better use of it. As for these transport support, you know that, you were the secretary of state when you cut the lines along the River-Dubrovnik coast line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91819	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91820	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Marelić, I am not Buric, I have a slightly different last name. Secondly, it is incorrect that I was talking about the former minister, because Minister Lorencin was now, and the former finance minister is Minister Linic, and the current minister is Lalovac. So Mr. Lalovec found it in the seventh month as I said the rebalancing would be for a bad tourist season and I didn't say anything wrong. As far as we're concerned, we've been lifted along the coastal line, it's not true, it's seasonal, you're taking off the seasonal coastal line. It's the only truth and you'll probably do it to the end of this because your attempts at explaining why it needs to be abolished don't hunt yourself to the ear of whoever it's important to. Secondly, as far as your card stories are concerned, it's one of the worst acts a minister could bring, which is against the law and I believe counter-constitutional because it limits freedom of movement to the island's population. You wrote that we could leave the island once a day. So whoever controls the map in Jadrolinia can do his job right. So if someone entered the ferry then let the management of Jadrolinia take care of it, if they entered in the way they shouldn't go in, not the service user, it's their job. And for that, you have burdened the island population with a cost of at least 5 million kuna which they will have to allocate to vignettes for cars. So far, we've bought these tickets using vinjet, traffic licenses and IDs. It's not clear to me that we're now getting a new I.D. that's never been written anywhere in any law. The island card has more value than the I.D., and it says the same thing on the I.D. If that's okay with you, I don't. And we'll see what Jadrolinia does with these -27 million kunas, whether it goes down or makes up for something else, and it's at least zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91821	The last replica of the esteemed Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91822	That my colleague, Boric, fully agrees with you when you said you needed to speak the truth and that the facts should be presented. And it is the public who will ultimately judge who is telling the truth and who is manipulating and twisting the facts themselves. Of course, we should be telling the truth about what's going on right now, but we should also be telling the truth about what happened in some not-so-times with taxpayers' money and with budget money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91823	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91824	Thank you very much. Well, here's the best truth your former member, the former finance minister, said today. I'll remind you he sued the government for not fulfilling its obligations, then asked what happened to HEP's investment cycle, which was announced in the first year of office, then he said that INA had not invested anything for three years and it was a commitment, so he attacked the investment cycle of the Croatian Railways and the failed privatisation of the freight part of that company, and he warned of the irresponsible ministers and irresponsible members of the administration who didn't do it, and then the finance minister finally agreed in the budget rebalancing, everything they didn't do, so he said that neither the convergence programmes were achieved, so that the health reorganisation was not implemented and that HZZO was coming out of the treasure, then he said something about subsidies. And I was at that very moment when he was even thinking about not even discussing it at all because he was the best opposition to you who were the authorities, and he was part of you and now we're rebalanced his budget. So that's the only truth, all of this looks back to you, I told you once, don't look back, don't go that way, I guess our way is somewhere ahead of us, 2015, 2016, and you won't justify yourself that way because citizens want to live better. And what's done is done. It'll be determined by someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91825	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91826	... I would have this individual debate started a little differently because a lot of things were said during the day. [[Specially enabled.]] However, what is for public finances and for the budget is very dangerous when budget users do not stick to the acts they have brought in. I remember that when the fiscal responsibility law was passed in 2010 and then there was a lot of resistance because many did not like certain provisions of that law. However, this law provides for an independent body to be created which, as of this year, is practically a parliamentary working body because it is part of the Committee on Finance, which is the Committee on Fiscal Policy, and this commission is not made up of politically painted people. In fact, the only one that is practically related to politics and related to a political party is the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance, all that remains are experts in its field. And this body, which should also be an aid to us parliamentarians, also gives the independent body a certain way of warning to the Government whether it is doing its job as it should, on November 7th, made an act called the position of the Committee for Fiscal Policy of the Croatian Parliament, emphasising the Croatian Parliament on the proposal for a second rebalancing of the state budget for 2014, and on the plan of the Ministry of Finance to comply with the fiscal rule for 2014. And now look at their assessment, they say in point 1 of the amendment and the supplement is due too late at a time when there is no longer enough time to affect the unfavourable trends of the deficit increase, the acceleration of public debt growth that will reach 80% this year. This is clear that this budget rebalance is actually a patching of errors and making commitments for the next period because some positions are shrinking. They will be practically executed this year, but the payment will be next year and they are so-called. a payment delay that already moves at the level of a billion and a half kuna. The second point, the amendment and addition proposal is increasing the deficit compared to the previous plan, which is a bad message and can be estimated to be the general government deficit... This year's 2010 methodology is higher than last year's, as also indicated by the European Commission's opinions. So, the opinion of the European Commission and the ESI 2010, the deficit of this state budget is not 15.5 billion, but is 5.6% of GDP or 19 billion. That's a fact. Why? Because we can talk whatever we want, but those 3 billion from the second pillar of pension and 2 billion that today the health minister here in this House said unpaid health obligations, according to the ESI 2010, are a deficit of the state budget. And when you add those 5 billion to this 15.5 billion, we're already at 20.5 billion, and with the payment delay, we're at 21 billion. And we can adopt this deficit here by 15.6, but the eurostat will lead us with a deficit of 5.6%. Veli, the proposal to amend and supplement suggests a huge weakness in the use of EU funds. That's what we're all talking about today, it's one of the key problems, and you heard what the Deputy Minister of Regional Development said two weeks ago when there was a report on the use of EU funds for last year. All praises. Beautiful and wonderful, fantastic, but look what this budget rebalance tells us. Look what the Commission of Fiscal Policy tells us, the body of this Parliament. That's just not true. The proposal for amendments and addition shows that there is a very high risk that we will not meet the fiscal rule in 2014 which would then be the second year in a row in which the fiscal rule defined by the Fiscal Responsibility Act would be violated. You see, colleagues and colleagues, the Fiscal Responsibility Act has been passed because the finance minister and the Prime Minister also have a stronger leverage to control budget spending. When this High House adopts the budget, simply no one has the right to break that position until.... So if he sees that with these funds for one reason or another he cannot, I say, drive by the end of the year, he is obliged to ask the Prime Minister to rebalance the budget to provide him with additional funds. So, if the ministers had acted in this way, first of all, as the biggest budgetary users acted in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act and in accordance with the fiscal rule, then we would not have happened if we had failed to comply with the fiscal rule for the second year in a row. However, look, colleagues and colleagues, can say some fiscal rule is some kind of administrative,..., etc., but what message are we sending? And to the European Commission, but what is the worst message that we send to those who determine the price of capital? At the moment when they want to skin us, when the interest starts to grow, then they will take this violation of the fiscal rule and take a very important argument to raise Croatia's interest rates due to uncertainty, because of the non-compliance of practically basic acts regarding the implementation of the budget. So they say that the very high risk of non-compliance with the fiscal rule seriously violates the government's credibility in fiscal policy-making. Look, the president of the government's budget says they've never been more transparent of public finances. Then let's disband these experts who have been appointed to the ruling majority's proposal at the Committee on Fiscal Policy in this House. So these people, let them forgive my expression, talk nonsense, and they say one thing as experts, and the Prime Minister says the whole 15th thing. And then why are we here in this House politically arguing over facts that are completely clear. Well 2 and 2 are always 4. Unfortunately, there were those in the country that were few, and there were those who could have been 3.5, depending on how they fit. Point 6, an explanation of the other amendments and additions' proposals, do not mention in any word the fiscal rule situation. That best speaks of the seriousness of this work. Point 7., the Committee on Fiscal Policy considers that in its future proposals, the Government should provide for clear and... fiscal rules whose enforcement is possible to monitor quality throughout the year. And that's what I said in the way of this budget. So, colleagues and colleagues, we don't stick to each other, we don't accept the act that made this body. Then what's the point of the Committee on Fiscal Policy? What does it mean if they make something and instructions in this tall home? If anything, he had to oblige the MPs to look a little differently at things. And in the end, something that just has to be mentioned. That's the price of energy. With tax burden, it is the biggest blow to the pocket of Croatian citizens. So, we raised the price of electricity by 25% 2.5 years ago, the price of electricity by 30%, it has a significant impact on the domestic budget of Croatian citizens, and it has a significant impact on the charge of the state budget because when you raise the price of electricity by 25%, then when you see the total gross turnover of HEP, you will see that this has a significant impact on the charge of the state budget as far as VAT is concerned. However, the very interesting thing is, I remember the time when the fuel price was around 7, 7.5 kuna, then the price of barrels of fresh oil, actually raw oil was about $75, $80, and then it was said that it was a very high price of oil derivatives, that Croatian citizens and Croatian economies couldn't handle it, and look, today again on the world market the price of barrel oil is right around $80. And look at the price of energy in the Republic of Croatia from 9 kuna 80 to 10 kuna and something else. so if they have so sharply raised the price, if we have introduced all these regulatory agencies and abolished all the rules that the government determines the basis for determining the price of oil products, and regarding the price of barrels of crude oil on the Mediterranean market, it is very interesting that no one now raises the voice that oil prices and oil lot should fall which should in any way make life easier for Croatian citizens, as well as for the Croatian economy. But I'm saying, amazingly five, six years ago, it was a terrible problem, and today when the price of oil derivatives is 2.5 kunas much higher, it doesn't bother anyone. And since I am running out of time, I haven't been able to process one topic, which is management of public enterprises and their quality management as a very effective way and a good way to fill the state budget. But it is very interesting that no one mentions Croatia's insurance anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91827	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've read the report of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, and you're absolutely right when you look back at the conclusions of experts who aren't apparently politically colored who, with economic optics, are looking at the rebalance of the state budget for this year. And what I agree with and what I mentioned in my debate once this morning seems to me to be in the replica, which is that the rebalancing of the state budget, which is being passed at the end of November of the current year, can't change anything. It can only cover what has been done during the year and wherever there has been a breach of the rules is practically rebalanced covering the work of ministers who did not adhere to the plan or the original budget that was adopted at the end of last year or the rebalancing of April this year. And it clearly does not affect any flows in the work of the ministries or the state, and nothing that matters can be rerouted but simply will practically cover what was made. But I would also mention something else, which is that this commission also pointed out and what you said in part, which is that the growth in income at the international level must be consistent with GDP growth. As we have experienced a decline in GDP in the Republic of Croatia, this budget rebalance is clear and indicated from 0.7% that this rebalancing plans to see a decline in GDP in Croatia by 0.7% by the end of the year, then there should be a reduction in expenditure entirely logically, according to this fiscal rule, and that the Commission itself finds that there will be no very likely to be expenditure growth when, according to the methodology mentioned above, there will be a growth of 4.4 billion. So this speaks of a kind of non-discipline on the one hand in the ministry's work, and on the other hand, it says that the government has really failed and there is nothing of reform that is at the end just before, and the minister has confirmed it himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91829	Time. The answer to the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Bačić thank you, in fact, for your replica because I did not reach the end to elaborate the fiscal rule, his relationship with the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and in principle that it should finally be thought and thought. We cannot solve the problem of the budget with non-resonal cuts and with an increase in tax burden. Thus, the Fiscal Responsibility Act on the one hand was to force budgetary users not to spend more than that, and all other government and fiscal and economic and tax policies could not plan for higher revenues than this is related to GDP growth, and neither could the expenditure side grow. And then you force yourself not to do what this government is doing, this government is exclusively seeking to solve the income side with an increase in taxes. So you can think of counterpart Bačić as the revenue side of the budget and revenues if they hadn't increased the excise duty on fuel, if it hadn't increased the excise duty on cigarettes if it hadn't increased the VAT rate from 10% to 13% and what the revenue side of the budget would have looked like if it hadn't increased from 13% to 15%. Well, that's what you're so rudely told at this point 6 billion kunas less and here we are at a deficit of 28, 29 billion. But that is why the fiscal rule is to force all those involved in this process that neither expenditure nor revenue can be something that is not due to logical economic consequences. And when we figure it out in Croatia, it'll be easier for everyone. There are ministers who like to be beautiful, liked with a lot of spending and a lot of sharing, which is not the result of the fiscal and tax power of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies, and therefore unfortunately we are at a deficit of 21 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91831	Second replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91832	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, I refer to that part of your debate where you spoke of the Minister's fiscal responsibility. The best fiscal responsibility of the ministers described Minister Sailor out there at 10 a.m. when he said, I don't think it's hard to multiply the monthly cost times 12. We all know that this rebalance only now solves the salary for educators in the 12th month, 350 million missing kunas that were properly alerted at the time of the budget and even during the first rebalancing, but nothing happened until the minister really warned the public in his own way what was going on in the vault. And to go to that kind of fiscal responsibility, Minister Lalovac came up with something. Now they'll have guards who spend money, so now in addition to internal audit, besides the state audit, besides that famous Clean Start, and besides everything and all possible bodies, we still have people to analyze the spending items of all ministers. New, young people from some prominent institutes have to analyze, i.e. Keep the ministers from spending more than they can. Again, I am saying one more piece of evidence really in the way fiscal economicism is run, whatever we want to call that policy of the Croatian state budget because what man can say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91833	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Borić, how much money you think is spent on a variety of clean start, counselors, like this, it would be very interesting to see at that fifth level the budget and a lot of intellectual services, which are these intellectual services. And I repeat, the Fiscal Responsibility Act has been passed, and as the author of that law, I can say what his intention was. It is exclusively intent to bring in control of those who spend our money, taxpayers' money. Only. Nothing else, no tutoring, but simply forcing everyone to think. But look, just remember, just the minister forgets last year in the budget rebalancing, practically a week before he forgets that he didn't provide the means to transport at 12 months, so we warn him that he doesn't have enough money to pay for this year's budget. Well, then he remembers at the 1st month he'll still pay for that ride, so we'll tell him well on purpose if you pay him at the 1st month for the 12th month of last year you'll miss him at the 12th month of this year. However, man did not believe and see where we came today. We came today to see that he now has to be provided with 107 million kunas for that, that he has to provide 350 million for the wages. But what have we done? We're science, scientific and research work has been cut off by over 200 million. So what will Croatia rest on, what will it build its development on? On a canal dig? Certainly not. But in order to adhere to the Law on fiscal responsibility, to stick to what the Committee for the fiscal policy of the Croatian Parliament has done, then someone would have to bear responsibility for it. I am interested in when the State Audit will finally begin to call for fiscal rules and when the State Audit will finally start calling for some excesses. And as for the fiscal rule, we'll talk about it a little bit more when I talk about the budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91835	Next replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91836	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your presentation, you asked yourself what message we are sending to potential investors in the Republic of Croatia, and in fact this constant change of rules, especially tax regulations, one legal instability, arbitration in the application of the law by inspection services, then one coordinated action between the central and local authorities made Croatia unwanted investments both to domestic and foreign investors. However, in the final presentation, Minister Lalovac actually told one truth, he was correct and difficult to object when he spoke about withdrawing funds from the European Union, in fact about everything we did not use as a new member of the European Union. So, due to some sloppyness, because of irresponsibility, we are likely to lose almost a billion euros in 2017, including Minister Lalovac. It is obvious that this government has brought us into a maze of its wandering delusions, wasting time and the future, and in fact the entire state and society have become hostages to this wandering and inconsistencies. You once mentioned, in fact, that I was income, let's say the VAT deficit is almost 1.3 billion kuna, and you forgot the fact that there was fiscalization, or that old debts were being charged, and there was no income left. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91837	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91838	Comrade Babić, let's talk about the acts made by this government and what these acts result from, what legal changes and whether it really gives security or uncertainty to taxpayers. So for 5 or 6 months, we hear that the amendments to the Income Tax Act will increase salaries for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time a week ago, we have guidelines from the fiscal economic policy adopted by this government, not the HDZ, not some of which I know whose and one of the things in it says that new amendments to the Income Tax Act will be decommissioned, and that means that the government thinks that employers don't need to cut salaries, in fact that the increased reduced income tax is being converted into wages rather than simply retaining it as their own. So two diametrically opposite things. And when it's seen by some investor, when he sees all those retroactive taxes and all these 37, 38 changes in tax laws over the past three years, it's pretty clear. We talked about these funds a lot today, and I don't think we should just waste any more words than simply force the government, whether or not to conclude the Parliament or something, that these administrative capacities and the design of projects and programs together with local self-government units and with private entrepreneurs who can withdraw funds, try to do as God commands, otherwise it won't be any of that. And as for VAT revenues, fiscalization and all, they have some things to do with their legality. It's the easiest thing to say is someone didn't do something, so we're gonna do this. The fiscalization project is one project that has long been chewed in the Ministry of Finance and technological possibilities, and it's something that the government doesn't need to deny what it did well. However, the effect of all this together in the state budget is lagging behind because unfortunately the crisis is such and people no longer have to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91839	The replica will now be presented by the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Shuker. What you read as the position of the Committee for the Fiscal Commission is one fact that this coalition, the entire Croatian Parliament, has decided that it exists within the Croatian Parliament, that it strengthens the role of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the executive power, that, realistically and effectively with the profession, it also makes certain guidelines and recommendations and ways in which fiscal policy in the interests of the Republic of Croatia would be guided, or in accordance with the laws. And on that point, I am extremely pleased that you have been making certain views that the Ministry of Finance knows very well, and I think that these views of the Fiscal Commission are, in essence, views that support and assist the work of the Ministry of Finance. You know very well how much the Ministry of Finance, within any government, is having problems harmonising certain views of projects, programmes, expenditures and revenues with other ministries. And what is crucial and good for the Croatian public to know that the Committee on Fiscal Policy is a commission of Croatian citizens, professions and that we will not need the European Commission, the MMS, or the World Bank to analyse and give us guidance what and how, but to have what is said in our profession and within the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the desire and intention of all of us together is that all those recommendations that stand in the position of the Fiscal Commission be implemented and thus get the key effect and functioning of both the Croatian state and the roles of the Croatian Parliament and the normal executive authority that will implement these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91841	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91842	Col. Gjurkovic, not a problem with this budget, the budget rebalance problem at the finance ministry, but the problem is that the acts brought here are not respected. Amazingly, you're saying that the Committee for Fiscal Policy is empowering this House and giving some guidance. So for the second year in a row, the government is not the Ministry of Finance, the government and all the budget users are breaking the fiscal rule. And what happened? He has our people's saying, forgive me for saying "eat a donkey wolf." What happened? Nothing. Is there anyone missing hair from your head? It's not. We have now, we're breaking the fiscal rule. You will vote that budget rebalancing and it is evident that the next fiscal rule will not work, it will certainly be done so that the government can respect it next year. That's the problem. I'm just telling you as the creator of the fiscal responsibility law that was intended for this Fiscal Commission, no matter where it was done. Only to strengthen the power of the Ministry of Finance, that according to the laws that are in line with the EU directive, public finances are being managed. But if there's no help in helping the Prime Minister, then there's none of it. Unfortunately, you can see it here. Because if certain budget users are allowed to overstep positions and nothing happens to anyone, then who's responsible? The Minister of Finance? No, I don't. Someone else gave him permission to overstep what this High House brought. Well, our strength should be that no one spends more lip than what this House approves. And if it brings it, if it does, then the fiscal responsibility law says what it is. He must give a mandate at his disposal. It's a moral act. And is that what happened in Croatia? Unfortunately, it's not in the HDZ government either, and it hasn't happened now in three years of this government. So why do we bring in certain acts?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91843	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91844	You spoke of misjudges and revenues that the government had based its optimism on revenues due to the increase in VAT rates to 13%, the effects of fiscalisation, the increase in excise duties, the collection of dividends from companies, and we finally have a VAT subsidisation of income by 1.3 billion kuna, and you said that as a result of the reduced economic activity of 1.2 billion kuna less income from European aid, etc. etc. After all, you especially but also here from our club, a number of economic experts, union representatives, have all been warning and speaking last year that the expected growth is unrealistic and unsustainable. In your speech, you said which message we are sending to international institutions. Well, we've sent that message a long time ago. In its report, the European Commission assessed Croatia as the worst in the EU, worse than Greece. And that's what we all know especially who we're dealing with and who we're reading these materials and we're listening to all these discussions. However, whether a clear enough message from this Croatian Parliament has been sent to all of our citizens in 2015. How much of the crisis will only be in their home budgets, how much will be broken standard and municipal and infrastructure and all other developments in local self-government units with this government policy, unreal planned growth, unreally planned and passed laws. And there was a criticism that I said in one of my discussions that the government was passing the law. So what law did the government propose to the majority of the vote, and this budget that we're talking about today? And what we could hear from former Minister Linic which is and how did this government and the honest report of today's new minister. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91845	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Klaric, see the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and the fiscal rule, say the annual rate of general budget expenditure growth must not exceed the annual rate of growth of the projected or estimated GDP at current prices. The general budget expenditure does not include, this is important, interest expenditure, expenditure on implementing the EU programme without national co-financing and annual change in expenditure due to changes in the institutional coverage of the general budget. It simply says that this government should behave and that such behaviour could not, according to the new ESA methodology, increase by 4.4 billion but ministers would be obliged to implement structural reforms and the consequences of these structural reforms would be a reduction in the expenditure side, probably a different situation in terms of GDP growth, and then automatically means no increase, an increase in the revenue side but in line with GDP developments. And these were the intensities of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is why the obligation to adopt a fiscal rule is, that is why we have established according to these laws, the Fiscal Commission as the additional working body of this High House, which is related to the parent financial committee. However, what is valuable when this paper is read or read by anyone, may read it, but it certainly will not be held. And that's the key problem. But I repeat, it is difficult for us to base this finding on the Fiscal Commission, and this is also likely to determine EUROSTAT, Croatia will be punished with a ban on the availability of EU funds. And that will be our most severe punishment, only there will be no punishment for the Greek because then he will say that he has withdrawn enough funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91847	The last replica, the Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91848	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, my replica will refer to, you have mentioned it twice today, regarding the price of energy. We can generally say that energy and energy prices depend on global demand. The higher the demand, the higher the energy prices. For example, the price of oil is determined on the basis of the price on the Mediterranean market and the rate of dollars. So it doesn't even depend on domestic oil production. The same as the growing cultivation of olive groves or vineyards will not affect that the price of olive oil or wine will be reduced. That determines the market. The Republic of Croatia has a shortage of electricity produced and it must continue to import or must go into the modernisation of production capacities. Here you mentioned the hydrological year that was good, but it's the same as in Slavonia with tomatoes, then when it comes well, everyone has it, I'm talking about production under the open sky. So it's not a big price for him. With HEP there are 14 more suppliers but there are only 4 active. They account for only 1.8%, less than 2% of total HEP traffic mainly with business users. The reasons for this are different but I think there's a future opportunity for the price of electricity to be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91849	The reply to the replica, dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91850	A colleague, Sagar, does not have to mean liberalising the market that someone will cut the price. Everyone here treats the main player, and the main player is HEP. I'll just tell you one example, in the 7th month 2010, HERA granted HEP a 25% increase in prices. The Ministry of Finance gave a negative opinion on this because we felt that because of the positive hydro year it should not simply raise prices and that Croatia could produce a lot of cheap electricity. And that price remained practically until the moment you raised it 25%. Or how to explain the gas price rises 35%, and then the methodology for calculating what the household spends. We have last year's hottest January I don't know since and the gas bills are the same or bigger than last January when we had half a metre of snow. So how can someone explain it? And this story about the price of oil, this, that, look at your price of gasoline in Germany. Lower, at this moment, than in Croatia, lower. And their average salary is at least 100% higher than Croatia's. If it's not 100% bigger, it's 60 or 70%. Therefore, their purchasing power is greater. How could they reduce energy prices and Croatia could not reduce energy prices? It's always said INA raises the price even though INA covers at this point I think below 50% of the market in the Republic of Croatia. And you remember on the news as the basis of that government decision every two weeks was changing the price there was always an INA higher price. Well, it's as if the other sellers who own their stations in Croatia didn't raise the same prices. However, it is very interesting that since this regulation has received a completely liberal note that no one is thinking at this time that the price of gasoline in Croatia should be below 9 kuna. Why? That's what the government and the Ministry of Economy should think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91851	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Nadia Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91852	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let's go back directly to the budget rebalance from this financial fiscal responsibility and energy prices. So with this rebalance, the state budget's revenues have been reduced from $17.1 billion to $114.5 billion or 2.6 billion, while expenditures have been reduced from 130.6 to €13.1 billion or €544 million. So the revenues and expenditures are reduced, but the revenues are significantly stronger than the expenditure resulting in an increase in the budget deficit by 2 billion kuna compared to the first rebalancing we made in March this year. So after the second rebalancing, the deficit would be 15.5 billion kuna or 4.8% of domestic gross production. What I would like to focus on in my debate is a public debt. Therefore, public debt as a cumulative consequence of all budget deficits achieved in recent years, including the deficit to be achieved in this year 2014. A public debt that's huge. One of the largest of the comparable countries. So the estimate is that by the end of this year, it could reach nearly 280 billion kuna or almost 81% of GDP. In this huge public debt, it was accumulated as I said in the morning and criminal conversion and privatisation, and systematic robbery of public enterprises and twenty-year spending above real opportunities because the previous governments, in order to preserve social peace, created a high level of consumption for which the Croatian economy had no opportunity or could not finance it. So what I want to point out is that this huge public debt isn't since yesterday, so it's been coming out for the last twenty years and it's got a huge price. So every year in the budget is the increasing cost of financing that debt somewhere between 10 and 20 billion kunas are interest generated by the growing deficit, and then this growing budget deficit generates an increasing public debt and so we actually go round and we would say as in Dante's hell. According to rough estimates in the period from 2009, so the first crisis year, until the end of 2014. Croatia will need to finance budget minuses, and to pay off precisely those interest rates of around 108 billion kuna. This is the amount almost identical to one year's budget revenues. It is truly frightening that Croatia spends an entire state budget on interest and deficit in 6 years. By not reducing public debt, therefore it is constantly increasing year after year with no fixed goods being bought, so no factory was built, no roads were built. We know that since the beginning of this year Croatia in the excessive deficit procedure and according to the convergence programme this year should reduce the budget deficit to 4.6% of gross domestic product, the next 2015 reduction should be to 3.5%, while Croatia should exit the excessive deficit process in 2016 when the deficit should be lowered to 2.7%, so below the 3% target. It is now clear that this plan will not be implemented and the logical question of course is what kind of reaction will be to that, to that fact by the European Commission. So, will the European Commission be flexible and extend our deadline for financial consolidation, which would be quite realistic to expect in view of its behaviour so far, or will we fall under sanctions that we know can be doubles, so for members of the euro area it is a monetary penalty of 0.2% of GDP, and for non-euro area members it is freezing funding from the cohesion fund. By agreeing with those who have said today that perhaps we should also change these criteria of the European Commission because if the existing rules are impossible to comply with then we really need them, then we should think about changing them. The additionalggravating circumstance of the current deficit is that in the coming years they arrive at the payment of the biggest repayment rate of the Croatian highways and the Rijeka-Zagreb highways, which are all covered by state guarantees, and it is somewhere from more than 4 billion kunas. The truth and these loans can be reprogrammed, but the question is at which price is expected to rise interest rates again in 2016, i.e. at the end of 2015, the end of the period of cheap money in the euro zone is expected. One word problem with the consolidation of state finances is very serious, we have to say not only in Croatia but also in a number of other countries, so at this point in the excessive deficit process is 11 EU members, with a reminder that in 2011, there were as many as 24 of them and saying that in the last 3 years in Croatia, huge reforms could have been made is actually one cheap populistism. The mere fact that the most countries were in the excessive deficit process right in 2011 is that we should respond to the crisis immediately, so already in 2009, certain reforms and today would probably be a little easier, but then the HDZ government, as we know, has persistently denied that the crisis exists and has not occurred to it to implement certain reforms. So, to conclude, public debt such a huge debt as it is necessary to reduce interest rates and reduce deficits in the state budget. One of the possible even if there were partial solutions was the concession of highways in which the public debt would once be reduced by more than 30 billion kuna, but as we see from the organisers of the referendum on non-supporting the monetization of highways from monetization, there will actually be nothing, and I am asking whether the organisers feel a certain responsibility versus the fact that it will not happen, and that is one of the options. So what is further is the capitalisation of large state property, primarily the real estate fund that this state has, so let's just think of thousands of apartments, thousands of garages and business spaces that the Ministry of Defence currently has and which are actually out of service and could contribute to a certain financial consolidation of the state budget. Therefore, capitalisation of that property would certainly contribute to improving the financial situation in the country but this process is also going slowly precisely because they have been unresolved in a huge part of ownership relations and this is also something not since yesterday, dating back to that of the past decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91853	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91854	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Jelish, it's a pure replica of one thing because I don't know how many times you have to repeat it anymore. If one government and the Ministry of Finance say that the amount to secure savings is increased, if the Ministry of Finance proposes to freeze the budget at the level of the current year and if this is all happening in the 10th month of 2008, I do not understand what else should be said to have started the economic and financial crisis. However, you must also know that if you are shouting at all bells, then what happened in Croatia almost on 10.10. when an attack on one bank started and that the second day is not said to increase the amount of secured savings roles, the question to end the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia in order to go uncircumcised. Also, if at a public meeting where not only the members of a political option were present, but the mayors, trade unions, these, they, and when the reason why it is proposed to freeze the expenditure side of the budget at the level of the current year, then I do not understand how one can tell that there has been no recognition that there is an economic crisis. However, it is something that the opposition at the time managed to successfully spread through its media, these are facts and cannot escape from these facts. But let's let go of what happened in the fall of 2008, let's see what's today. So at this point, you do not admit what a terrible crisis the Republic of Croatia is in, and with this budget rebalancing, the Government does not recognise what a desperate, difficult state of affairs state of state is and what a desperate, difficult situation the Croatian economy is in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91855	Replication response, esteemed Nadia Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91856	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you're not going to convince us that this one measure, so the increase in security for savings roles, was some proof that you admitted to the existence of the crisis. No, it's a little thing, it's a little bit about state finances. So the fact is, you've really denied at least a year, if not longer, while others have been redecorating. I said earlier in the debate that in 2011, so 2 years after the crisis began, 24 countries were in an excessive deficit. So, they all started this reconstruction, that reform, we were still then, that is, you were still saying that there is actually no crisis and that it would somehow bypass Croatia. So, I repeat, if certain reforms and certain more concrete measures were taken at that time, this moment would not be such a situation with state finances, and we admit that she, we admit that she is really difficult, but I repeat, not since yesterday, she was generated in a number of years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91857	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Dragan Montenegrin. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Last reported is colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91858	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here, throughout the day discussing the rebalancing of the state budget for 2014 I have not yet gained the impression or have I learned whether the Republic of Croatia, which is a Member State in the excessive deficit process, has brought this budget rebalance in line with the European Commission? In fact, a few days ago... economic experts expressed doubts and doubt that 15.6 billion kuna, as projected by this rebalancing, is the deficit of the state budget for this year, is it accurate and will the European Commission adopt such budget rebalancing given the two important, very important facts that this budget rebalance does not contain in the opinion of these... economic experts. It is above all, therefore, whether the European Commission will recognise that they are regular, that the revenues of the state budget amounting to 3 billion as transferred from the second stage of the pension rate to the first pillar, on the one hand, and on the other hand whether they have arrived and the outstanding debts in healthcare entered the expenditure side of the state budget for 2014. If that's what these experts say, and I'm passing on their suspicion here in the budget, then the deficit of the state budget would be 20.6 billion kuna, not 15.6 as this rebalancing is supposed to mean, and then the deficit of the state budget would be 6.4%, and not 4.8% as planned with this rebalance of the state budget. Therefore, it would be good, Mr Deputy, that in your, if you have your final address, here you can tell us if it is such a deficit, or whether such a rebalancing of the state budget is fully in line with the European Commission, given that the Croatian Member State of the EU is in the process of excessive deficit, which then means under the special supervision of the European Commission. That's one reason why I'm, here's why I wanted to report for the debate. The second reason why I am reporting for the debate is that this rebalancing of the state budget actually showed how wrong the government was when it went into the procedure and changed the Law on Public Roads this morning, when 60 limes intended for the operation of Croatian highways were redistributed in a way that left 20 limes to Croatian highways, 20 limes to Croatian railways, i.e. HZ infrastructure and 20 limes to Croatian roads. Namely, what happened? There have been these amendments to the law that we are a public company that has been potent in terms of the possibility of building and realising infrastructure projects, which we obviously need at this point in our lives, because without investments, and even in infrastructure, there is no incentive to build, and without the promotion of construction there is no incentive at all for the economy in the Republic of Croatia. We, therefore, had these amendments to the Law on Public Roads, a company which could, had human resources, technically, have been designed for investment practically took about 800 million kunas from it and from those 800 million kunas 400 million kunas gave it HZ Infrastructure. I agree that it is good to provide HZ Infrastructure 400 million kuna so that it can enter into a new investment cycle because these investments in HZ Infrastructure would be largely funded by European funds. However, HZ Infrastructure as we testify was not ready to invest. I'm interested in whether these funds then went to the regular business of HZ Infrastructure? So what was planned to begin the new investment cycle in HZ was not realized on the one hand, and on the other hand we gave Croatian roads 400 million kuna, and with this budget rebalance and budget rebalance of Croatian roads, we reduce the expenditure side by 715 million kuna. So not only have we given Croatian roads these amendments to the Law on Public Roads new 400 million kunas in this year from excise duties which were until then the income of Croatian highways but Croatian roads have failed to realise the 715 million kunas that we are reducing with this budget at the cost position. I said this morning that 715 million kunas are taken with this rebalancing system by the Croatian roads is 1/3 of the Pelje Bridge. So we were bombarded with these three years of information that Croatian roads have no money, that it could not continue to build the Pelješka bridge, and now at the end of 2014 in November we see that 715 million kunas were in Croatian roads, and now this rebalancing budget is practically taken and no longer at the cost position, or these funds have not been spent. Furthermore, what I also wanted to say is that this budget rebalancing has put into question the entire waste management system in the Republic of Croatia, which we have established by establishing whose framework we have set by joining the Republic of Croatia in full membership of the EU because we have said and signed that by the end of 2018 we will establish the County and regional waste management centres and, in that sense, close all open any legal, any illegal waste dumps and dumps in the Republic of Croatia. This government has inherited three centres from the former HDZ government that were to develop, namely the County Centre in Sibenik County in the Primorje-Gorski Marinština and in the Istrian Kastijun, and none of these have been created by a new regional centre or is in a position to raise funds from European funds because it is precisely the purpose of which EU funds are being provided. From all of this is only at the beginning of the construction of the County Centre in Dubrovnik-Neretva County in Zadar County and the Regional Centre... in the northwest of Croatia. However, almost nothing has been done in these projects and in this way practically the Republic of Croatia will not be able to meet the condition we signed by joining full EU membership. Not only have we not opened a new project but we have reduced the amounts in the state budget for the existing three centres for which there are already established contractors, we have reduced by 40% and somewhere around 280 million kuna, respectively, to these regional waste management centres than was foreseen by the budget rebalancing that this Parliament has brought in the 4th month. I am really afraid that not only will we not fulfil the obligation that we have made by joining full membership, and for which we will not pay for the penalty because we do not manage the waste as we have undertaken in this process by joining Croatia in full membership, but we will not build almost and implement almost one centre by 2018, let alone 13 planned centres in the Republic of Croatia that are currently planned to make that commitment that we have made. Also when I was looking at this budget rebalancing, I can't help but wonder that this government, on several occasions in 2012, also this year, talked about major investments in energy efficiency projects, the arrangement of public building facades in the Republic of Croatia, about reducing public sector spending through the rise of energy efficiency of buildings, the launch of construction, construction and activities that could participate in the organisation of these public building facades, this rebalancing of the budget for this purpose was established zero kuna. So neither the public building in the Republic of Croatia based on this rebalancing budget will be arranged because, as we can see, the project has experienced a complete debacle. So zero kuna at the position of raising the energy efficiency of public sector buildings, which was one of the most important projects that the Government sent here to the Croatian Parliament in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91859	Replica, the esteemed Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91860	You're talking about the Peljesk Bridge again. You stopped, closed the papers on 5.6.2010, you opened a tender for the Pelješki bridge without a building permit, you started the works without the means to build that bridge. If the funds had been made when the tender was called, the bridge would certainly not have been cut off. So you've done it all, and now you've got us here talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91861	The replica matches Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Marelić, right, I keep talking about the bridge and I won't stop talking about that bridge until we ride through it together. But what, let me know a little bit better, because I was involved in it, so the building permit for the bridge exists, based on the building permit, is a tender, based on the invitations to tender, the contractors were introduced into the work. And it's exactly as you said, at the end of 2009, a decision was made to suspend works on the construction of the bridge. At that moment I will remind you in the Republic of Croatia the climate is created that if the construction of the Pelješke bridge is stopped as unwarranted, the project, that honey and milk will flow in Croatia. And then the government partly accepted such suggestions and the bridge was stopped for a certain time because they were works, but in 2011, you know very well, the Road Commission approved around 330 million kunas to move forward to the completion of the Peljega Bridge. And now I don't see why the government didn't continue to build the Peljega Bridge, and some leaders of the Kukuriku coalition said in 2012 that the Peljeski bridge is an illusion of fools. I am pleased that they have changed their attitude and today we intend to build a bridge, but I also argue then and also now that in the Croatian roads there is enough resources to build the Pelješč Bridge, and that the funds that will eventually be obtained from the European Commission to be used for the construction of access roads and to build a fast road across Pelješac which make the roads an integral part of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91863	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91864	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, we will hear from this authority about their great care for all parts of Croatia. Now a quick report on the implementation of the Island Act in 2013, you will hear how worried they are, but the results in this 2014 are saying something else. Of the 120 million we had for islands in rebalancing 20 million less. We can't spend 20 million. The most frightening, capital aid to the local self-government item 9 million less than a million and 600, with so many demands, with so many projects that have a building permit, at every meeting with an assistant, no money, no money, then and what little you don't give, and you don't want to spend, but here we go back, it didn't come true. The EIB 2 was not implemented until the end, EIB 3 abolished, to hear from the Deputy Minister that a new loan from the same bank would now be taken, which would probably be more favourable, although I doubt that more such favourable conditions will ever be obtained, which could be interpreted as participating in the loan in the European Union funds, i.e. the possibility that local self-government from that loan would compensate for the missing assets, and this could be the loan that was abolished. You simply see that there is no will to take care of any assisted area at all, and then as a final in the last year of the mandate of delivering a law on regional development that is more of a Regional Development Act than anything else. Because how to interpret the fact that the most developed municipalities are through this law in the Gorski kotar and on the islands and that it's the only argument that goes to the public, and we all know that it's not like that and that's not true. And the story of the island card is something we'll learn more about when there's a report on the island law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91865	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91866	I thank my colleague, Boric. You made it possible for me to say something about islands now. So this government has reduced the amount from capital aid to Croatian islands and not only has it reduced but also the reduction is not realised, so this rebalancing further decreases. So take a look at the budget of the Croatian Roads where the programme for islands was first 180 million kuna in 2011 was cut to 35 million kuna. Now it's 35 million kuna, we're down to 14. So out of 180 million kunas for editing the island programme conducted by the Croatian roads, see what is said in the rebalancing of the Croatian Roads budget reduced to 14 million kuna by 50, 47 inhabited Croatian islands. On the other hand, you mentioned the Regional Development Act, but at this point what will feel units of local self-government, not only on islands, but if we're on islands, I'm now talking about islands, that by changing income tax, we're going to cut huge funds to local self-government units. So for example, here's one of the municipalities of Blato that I come from, according to one simulation of how much was done, the income tax of about 4 billion kunas will be reduced to 3 million kuna. So 25% of the assets that were the original incomes of an island unit of local self-government. By amending the Income Tax Act, it will decrease by 25%. Therefore, how and in what way will all the needs under the Law on Local Self-Government be organised be met by the unit of local self-government I do not know, and I agree with you rightly when you have already spoken about the fact that this regulation governing transportation for islands, whether for transporting passengers, transporting cars, that it will bring additional anxiety and that it will cost about 5 million kunas of all islanders, and we do not see any reason why it is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91867	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91868	We are going to decide on the points of the agenda that we have done, discussed here in the Croatian Parliament. Proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 under 1.1. Proposal for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget users for 2014 for: (a)Croatian waters, (b)Croatian roads, (c)Center for restructuring and sale, (d)Fund for environmental protection and energy efficiency, (e)State Agency for the Insurance of Savings Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks and f)Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and 1.2 Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of non-financial users for 2014 consolidated. The debate on these proposals is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set for the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please plead. Let's check the quorum. You got it. Thank you very much. Let's check the quorum. Please state. We have enough colleagues and colleagues present to be able to decide on all the points we decide on. Now, please, let's vote on the State budget amendment as I read it. Can we vote? ... The government's amendment, yes, we vote on that, the amendment to the government, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 85 votes in favour, no abstentions and 24 votes against, we have decided to decide and discuss the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the representative of the honourable Minister of Vedran Sailor to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91869	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. It is a small amendment where the rebalancing amount to encourage the education of national minorities is increased, so I say, the damage to the EUREKA programme, which has been found not to be spent in 200 thousand kuna. Also in another item, 400,000 kuna will also be transferred to specific education programmes for the implementation of national minorities' programmes from EUREKA's assets which are impossible to spend by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91870	Thank you very much, Minister. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic. Dear Representative Ivan Šuker on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91871	Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this amendment in principle speaks only in the way in which the budget rebalance was made. It's impossible for someone who was missing 300 and something else 2 weeks ago to suddenly say that for one position there would be 200 thousand kuna missing. So, the Ministry of Education has a budget of 11 billion. And we at the HDZ Club are to increase the funding for the education of national minorities, but this points to one indifference in the way in which the 2014 budget was made, so that the holes are simply patched up at the end of the year and that it is paper-based that it all works out. However, the reason why I came forward for the debate on this amendment is also the second reason, the biggest tragedy that the basis for the 2015 budget, you will see it not in 2014 but in the spring plan and then you can think about what it will look like, in fact, what it looks like now because we got these materials document that we're going to discuss on Thursday. So, we're going to support, we're actually going to be restrained around this amendment, we support a principled increase in resources, but we don't support the way and the principle. You know exactly why this was done. National minorities said they would not support budget rebalancing unless this position changed and is done solely for this reason. If someone really thinks that by the end of 2014, at the 12th month they'll spend an extra 600,000 on education, then I wouldn't want to tell you ministers you understand yourself more in education than I do but I don't know what those expenses are at the 12th month that were going to happen at the moment of budget rebalancing. So these are the costs already incurred. It's just that she's so-called. the delay that is taking place in the state budget and which will be over a billion and a half kuna in 2014. So, colleagues and colleagues, I think that we as Parliamentarians who are ultimately the last to give light to the proposal of the state budget would finally have to start insisting that all those who execute the state budget so for whom we raised our hand or against or for, it doesn't matter, stick to the Fiscal Responsibility Act and that they can't break the position before someone approves it. This is a clean deal and a contract and Croatia can no longer afford deals and contracts, because this amendment will be seen by someone in Brussels and read about the attitude of the Croatian state, above all by the Croatian Government towards the budget. So I'm saying this is something real that's inadmissible and the question is how long will this be repeated, but obviously this government doesn't know otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91872	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Minorities Club in the Croatian Parliament, National Minority Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91873	Thank you very much, Mr. President, two short things. First, the National Minorities Club, counterpart Shuker, did not at any time tell the ruling four that they would not vote for budget rebalancing. The National Minority Club will vote for budget rebalancing regardless. Secondly, this is not about any increase but was proposed to cut national minorities' funds at the lowest and possible level since national minorities in Croatia were even financed. So they were proposed to shrink and now they're not shrinking. And the third thing is fellow Shucker, word settlement, word,... Yes, fellow Shuker, yes, it's a deal when big, when big talk about money they negotiate and when the little ones talk about money they trade or bargain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Shuker, I never said that HDZ is making a deal, a trade, but to negotiate. I'm asking you to talk about us negotiating when we talk about funds, not our own, but the population we represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91874	Thank you very much, dear fellow Furio Radin. The replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91875	Thank you very much. I'm glad my colleague, Radin, that you felt the need to replicate me, but I said in my debate that I wasn't against these funds, however, but I'm against the way, because someone can't say at the 11th month that those reduced funds are enough, and then after some conversation like you say let's get those funds back. So it's about the way, the principle, and not against the means. So you obviously misunderstood because it's illogical for me that four or five days ago when we discussed this High House budget, we didn't hear such dissonant tones about these amounts. Look at all the debates and you'll see. They were gone. So if it were on the trail of what you were saying, then I would realize that all minorities have come forward and said in these positions that they disagree and that they would not accept that amount to be reduced, they would have the support of the HDZ Club, that's for sure. But now to say that something is not one way or another, so I have well-intentioned that such things should not happen in the future. Someone can't say that in one position at the 11th month that there is an excess of 400,000 kuna and that this amount should be reduced and then after 7 days there is no extra, we need to pay that amount back. So I guess given the structure of the operation and the cost that these money is probably already spent or not spent and that was the reason for my debate and for the replica of you, not what you said. A deal, a contract, a conversation, a dear God anyway, but apparently there were enough arguments with a hand in the air to make them make this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91876	Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91877	Comrade Shuker, the only thing I'm going to say to you right now is that while you were the finance minister we were doing this before, then it didn't have to be settled by amendment, then it wasn't a contract and a deal, it was a deal. (Laughter) And now that we have to solve this last moment because minorities are always the last to come in line, then it has to be resolved by the amendment, but it's the same fellow Shucker. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91878	We wrote down everything you wanted to say, and now I wouldn't be opening a private hearing. I'd like an esteemed representative, Branko Vuksic, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91879	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, this particular replica actually took away my word. This is about government. This isn't about national minorities. National minorities did not need to reduce funds. National minorities, I agree with my colleague Furia Radin, are always on the tail, and always if anything remains, they are. A big mistake was made when they were being reduced, and now it's normal that the impression that leaves is the one that fellow Shucker said, as if there were some talks at the last minute, and I think the government has once again shown that it's working very badly, not only the budget, but otherwise we wouldn't be in this invisible economic situation. Of course, the club supports this amendment, but I'm certainly speaking for myself now that we're going to vote differently on the budget rebalancing itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91880	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who is for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 100 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 9 against the adoption of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the bill. We're moving on to the amendment of the National Minority Representatives Club. I'd like a representative of the proposer's, please. Who will? Minister of the Navy, here are the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91881	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. It's just a matter of over-funding. In fact, on one item within the Roma student scholarship activity, we had 346 000 kuna, and now 106 500 kuna would be re-scheduled to another item, they would be transferred only to the development of adult education systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91882	So you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91883	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91884	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. We have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of Deputy Secretary Dark Taritash, please. Zeljko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91885	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91886	Explain to the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91887	It is that in 2013, as you know, a new Law on Construction and New Law on Spatial Planning entered into force and, therefore, the basis for the payment and transfer of funds previously contained in Article 343 has disappeared. The law on spatial planning and construction. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91888	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91889	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, this is another example of how obligations are passed on to local self-government units. It is said that something will be paid to transfer funds and then after a year forget about it. And if that's the way I'm going to quote it, I'm not going to interpret it, I'm going to quote the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning. Therefore, where the norms referred to in Article 343(3) are said to provide funds for the salaries of officials taking over counties, large cities and cities of the county headquarters in the state budget with the same amount provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 and to be granted to counties and large cities with the head office of counties. Also, in "The People's News" 153/13. Article 190(1) provides that the administrative bodies of the counties and large cities responsible for the administrative works of construction established under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction until the date of entry into force of this Act shall continue to work as administrative bodies of the counties, the large cities responsible for administrative works of construction under this Act. Therefore, in view of the above, it is clear that the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction did not cease to apply as a whole by applying any other law, they simply ceased to apply certain provisions laid down in the new regulations. So when we translate this into the Law on the financing of local self-government units, when we translate this into an amendment to the Income Tax Act, then colleagues and colleagues see what the right is stronger and what is done to local self-government units. This isn't decentralisation, this isn't removing administrative barriers, but this is just my concern for the transition to another, and the money stays with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91890	You're asking for a vote, Your Honor? Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives. Thank you very much. What's the score? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. 76 MPs are required to adopt amendments and to supplement the budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in fact Article 91 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Excuse me. Please vote complete. What's the score? I set out the majority of votes 77 for, no abstentions and 35 against the amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 as proposed by the Proposer together with the adopted amendment. Let's go vote. In accordance with Article 24. The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries. 1. Decision on granting the consent to amend and supplement the Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for 2014 and projection of the 2015 and 2016 plans Please, let's vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I set out most of the votes, 83 votes for and 1 abstention and 35 against the decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2014 and projections of the 2015 and 2016 plans in the text as proposed by the Proposer. 1. Decision on granting consent to amendments and additions to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2014 and projections of the 2015 and 2016 plans. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes are 81 votes for, 4 abstentions and 34 votes against a decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2014 and projections of the 2015 and 2016 plans in the text as proposed by the Proposer. 1. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2014 and the projection of the plan for 2015 and 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 32 votes against the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2014 and the projection of the 2015 and 2016 plan in the text proposed by the Proposer. 1. Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency for the year 2014 and the projection of the plan for 2015 and 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I set out most of the votes, 84 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 34 votes against the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Fund's Financial Plan for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2014 and the projection of the 2015 and 2016 plans in the text proposed by the Proposer. 1. Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the State Agency’s Financial Plan for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2014 and projections of the 2015 and 2016 plan. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 0 abstentions and 35 votes against a decision to give consent to amendments and additions to the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2014 and projections of the 2015 and 2016 Plan in the text proposed by the Proposer. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am giving the following conclusion: - The Professional Service of the Croatian Assembly is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the motions, the revision of the text of the amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and the decision to amend and amend the financial plans of the Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks before their publication in the National Journal. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, with 101 votes in favour, 2 votes were abstentions and 9 votes against the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide the Croatian Assembly with a full report on the financial state of the health system, which will include all the obligations of the health institutions and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute with the deadlines of maturity with effect on 31 December 2014. - The Government of the Republic of Croatia report referred to in point 1 of this conclusion is obliged to deliver to the Croatian Parliament no later than 15 January 2015. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion not accepted, 44 votes in favour, four abstentions and 69 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91891	We continue with - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 728 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was carried out by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget, spatial planning and construction, legislation, tourism, regional development and EU funds, human rights, the rights of national minorities, the economy, maritime, transport and infrastructure and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic, intro. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We must, therefore, also change certain figures to the Law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, with amendments and additions to the 2014 budget. Therefore, due to the change in deficit levels, the amount to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can be in debt on the foreign and domestic money and capital markets is also changed. And we certainly show all of this in the financing account, and in accordance with the above, the level of borrowing is also changing, i.e. the amount of the annual value of the new financial guarantees, the amount of the guarantee stock, and the amount of the assets for the underlying capital, i.e. interest subsidy, interest in loans and Croatian Bank's guarantee fund for reconstruction and development in 2014. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we propose this proposal to increase the level of borrowing by 50.4 million to a total of 33 billion 572 426 million and 585 million. That current repayments of the principal also increase significantly by a billion and 619 million kuna primarily due to the return of the Golmansax loan of 200m euros, so at the end of 2013, that debt was not shown in the financing account, and we are now showing it since the return was made in mid-year. It's changing, so that's what the budget is about, which is in a narrow sense. As far as extra budget users are concerned, there is also the planned level of borrowing and the planned amount of current payments. As far as current payments are concerned, the belt is symbolic of 9.4 million kuna, but borrowing is therefore reduced significantly by 584 million kuna. Croatia's primary road, therefore, is reducing their planned debt by 715 million kuna due to reduced investment activity. As far as new financial guarantees are concerned, we suggest that we increase the amount from 5 to 6 billion of which we reduce from 3 to 2 and a half for extra budgets. We estimate that this will be enough, and this belt is primarily due to HZ, the debt of HZ Infrastructure that we expect, so the financial guarantee for HZ Infrastructure increases billions and 250 million kuna. As for the guarantee stock, we also propose for a hundred million kunas to secure ourselves around API bonds and some other expected possible expenditures. I said the introduction of a reduction in HBOR from 920 to 520 million kuna, and also the longest article of this proposal concerns, therefore, the possibility of this law of enforcement, to be able to comply with the obligations of the Restructure and Sales Centre, since for the implementation of their obligations, to be assumed by the Governance Act and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, this law complements the part relating to state property management in that part. The same amendment is also introduced in the 2015 draft law on the implementation of the state budget. So, for the rest of the CERP to somehow be allowed through the Execution Act to be implemented. Here's so much intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91893	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues who still have enough strength and patience to listen to this. So this is the item of the agenda that is usually not discussed in the Croatian Parliament, but it always hides some things that I find so interesting and indicative and do not remember that as a representative, I did not discuss this item on the agenda as well as the financial plans of extra- budget users pass quite uninterestingly. So in this Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, Amendments and Supplements to the Law, I would certainly refer to Article 1 and, where a new Article 26 is added, which regulates in principle what happens in the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales in 2014. You see, it's very interesting, and this financial plan that nobody talked about today. However, when you take with total how much funding this year, this Restructure Center has and how much money it will spend is about 788 million kuna, and we often spend around a few million kunas in this High House. It is also easy to move about, therefore, this Article 1 and by adding a new Article 26, that the CERP, as the legal successor of the Agency for the Management of State Property, is the foundation of real estate management owned by the Republic of Croatia, is being paid to its jury account. It shall also be prescribed that the rest of the bankruptcy liquidating mass of the companies is transferred to the ownership of the CERP, etc. However, when you look at the financial plan of the Center for Restructuring and Sales, then you will see that his income from business is not God-knows-what. They total 61 million kuna, and they were planned with 8 million and 800. And the basic expenses without these credits were planned with 152 million. Now it's $95 million. However, it is very interesting that this has fallen so much in the financial plan, and these are expenditures for not obtaining 175 million financial assets. The question arises what did this CERRP want to buy for this 175 million kuna? Just as I ask myself a question, and so do you, Mr. Deputy Minister, even though I don't know if you'll be able to answer it, and that's in this particular part of the financial plan, and that's the reason for this law on the implementation of the state budget, those are the shares and shares in the capital of 250 million. This was not in the original financial plan, it is only in this new plan, and this is clearly tangling the Law on the implementation of the state budget, for this amount is practically increasing the debt. So I'm curious to know which one of these Centers for the Restructuring and Sale of Shares bought in the amount of 250 million kunas? So Article 2 is just the result of what we've been discussing today all day. Due to the increased deficit, the government of the Republic of Croatia should be allowed more debt to finance the deficit. But Article 3 is something interesting and I called it, since all the time it was said that this government inherited a lot of skeletons from the closet, Article 3 is nothing more than a skeleton from a future government closet. Why? Because most of these guarantees are given to HH and HH won't be able to repay that loan. When you look at the report on the implementation of the budget and see how much guarantees are protested then every year hundreds of millions are paid out of the state budget for guarantees given to HZ and to other companies. So this Article 3 that says that we're going to increase the exports of new financial guarantees from 5 to 6 billion, that means that we're going to increase the possible skeletons from 5 to 6 billion kuna. Because I repeat, and also according to the ESA 2010 methodology and as beneficiary of the guarantee within three years is unable to repay the loan and then the full guarantee is recorded in the expenditure of the state budget and increases the deficit for that amount. And given that HZ Cargo, HZ infrastructure and all those HZs that are given instead of subsidies that have been in the budget, these guarantees are now not going to be able to repay those loans. So in two or three years' time, the deficit of the state budget will rise precisely for these guarantees. But I'm saying, we go over it like nothing happened. Article 4, I was talking about him today when I was talking about the budget, which is one of the levers for the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia to help the economy if I am not constantly wrong on this left hand side of the cabinet by the Prime Minister, the ministers said it would be HBOR. And now look at this budget rebalancing, we are reducing HBOR funds for core capital and reducing interest-subsidisation funds totalling $400 million. So is this a deviation from the economic policy this government has drawn, is this a message to entrepreneurs that you won't be getting any more money? And the second thing, you're constantly objecting to the fact that the former government didn't do HBOR's recapitalisation, so here's what's going on right now. But I'm saying, it's like that. And finally, to finish, Mr. Deputy Minister, there's something I don't understand. This is what I was talking about when the budget was adopted and when the State Budget Law was discussed at the time, which was in December of last year, it is Article 30, which says in paragraph 1, that the total government debt will be 62% of the total GDP in 2014. It's obvious he'll be somewhere between 80 and 82% at the moment. Let's say it's 81%. Therefore, you did not provide for an amendment to Article 32. It's about those fiscal rules I was just talking about, it's about the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And now one elemental question is being raised, and the government is sending us an act that is contrary to a series of legal regulations that this House of Commons has passed. Because the government's obligation is as rebalanced in plus and minus the item of the budget, as it amended certain articles of the Law on the implementation of the state budget because they change as a consequence of the changed positions in the state budget, so the Government is obliged and amends Article 30, which says that because of this or that reason, changes in the methodology, whatever it is, but this data does not say that in 2014 the share of public debt in GDP will be 62% more than it will be far more. Paragraph 2 says the government is obliged to take measures to reduce the total government debt in the coming years not to amount to more than 60% of the total GDP. Now look, from the moment this law was passed to today, the share of public debt in the Republic of Croatia has increased from some 67.68% to 82%. And now, given that there is little time left and we are said to be able to submit amendments until the end of the debate, do I not know whether the Government, with its amendment, will go on to amend Article 30? Or, Mr. Vice President, I don't know what business option we can use, but since I cannot react with the amendment in accordance with our Rules of Procedure to this bill because this article 30 does not change in the Government's proposal, and because of the seriousness, it is not good for all those who observe us to adopt an act that simply doesn't correspond to the facts. Do you think maybe if the Government didn't do it to vote on the budget that and the Parliament in some way or I don't know in what way, I don't know what business is or if there's a business possibility I'd put an amendment to Article 30? But since he can't be changed, I don't think the amendment can be made, but I think, Mr. Vice President, that we couldn't possibly leave a provision in particular for this paragraph 1 that simply doesn't correspond to the facts at this point, so 82 and 62 is a terrible lot, because if you take that to you, since GDP is just less than 350 or somewhere around 340 billion are 20% of you 68 or 70 billion kuna, it's not small money that we as parliamentary advocates would just keep quiet on this, but it's best talking about systematicity, after all, it's not the Ministry of Finance wrong, but simply some other people who don't want to show the state as it is. And that's why the HDZ Club can't support the seemingly technical but I repeat the very center for restructuring, because this is almost 800 million kuna, also Article 3 that says the guarantee is increasing by a billion kuna, which is your future bone, the future liabilities of the state budget. The reduction of resources for HBOR, and ultimately this Article 30, is therefore unchanged and that is why the HDZ Club cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91895	Thank you, too. Finally, go ahead, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, since there are no other reported allow me in the final word, I don't know if Mr. Shucker will please, but let me try. As regards paragraph 1 and of the CERRP, these amendments and additions therefore amount to about 68 million kuna are practically left to the CERRP. You well know what CERRP is all the sequence and the problems that are inherited there, a lot of things unfortunately we haven't recorded all these years, so this is just the part that basically allows us to come back to life around it. The increase in guarantees, that slow dynamics is restructuring, slower than the one we expected, and that's why the guarantee is growing, the subsidies are higher and if they were possible are not allowed in this respect, so this is one of the solutions. And I connect practically to the public debt point and I remain in debt to Mr. Bačić's answer there. When I spoke on the report on the implementation of the budget for the right 6 months about the ESA methodology then 95 and budget deficits from those previous years, then we said that we had to by national methodology because let's not go backwards, etc. That if we write down the debts when they are created and we include them in the public debt now, and in the budgets according to the ESA methodologies and 95 and 10, and they change, you know that they're synchronising, then we come up with the figures that confuse us. The public debt has grown greatly, because of the involvement in the public debt of all those obligations that are now being entered on these methodologies, which occurred in previous years. I have to admit that I was unhappy, too, and that I wasn't, in fact, now that I've been sitting here, I noticed that we haven't changed that article in the 30s, that I'm here alone and there for a while, I've tried to consult. With the new draft Budget Law and on the basis of the recommendations of the European Commission, we will actually prescribe this rule of debt through the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And by doing so, the Budget Law will be left without this provision, and by doing so... the Law on the implementation of the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know it's not an answer to this question and it's not a happy solution for me either, because the objective number is far greater. So that's where 62 stands and you've read article 30 well that the 60 government has to grow, the figure is significantly higher. I don't know if there's any business option here I'm not inside enough to change it yet, if it can change me personally as Deputy Minister wouldn't mind changing it and actually doing less evil because the number is a number and we can't make a mistake there. So let me, within and with the Minister, and with the Government, consult, so if we can change Article 30 of the amendment until the vote itself, and that reduces the level of your criticism why not, I don't really see the need not to solve it. I say, as I say in advance, we'll see with the new proposal, it was the European Commission's suggestion that we no longer prescribe it through the budget, it's the Budget Law and the Law on Implementation, but we put the debt rule into the Fiscal Responsibility Act, so maybe it was the idea of a guide that colleagues didn't install it, maybe it was a problem and the calculation, I hope it wasn't. But here's what I think if there's a business possibility, I think with all the fences, I'm going to say my position, I think there's going to be the government's will that we change it and it's actually less evil than leaving this number that's instead of 80 says 60. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91897	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91898	Kola Radjenovic, so this provision in the Law on Budget Implementation, is precisely the result of the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. Therefore, firstly, the Budget Law was amended, when the Budget Law was amended, the conditions for the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act were met. In order to strengthen such functions, the actual fiscal responsibility law, above all, to assist the Ministry of Finance, is also established the Fiscal Commission and it is defined that the level of public debt will be determined for the current year by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and that Parliament is included in this way, because if Parliament adopts the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, then it also brings certain limits in which public debt should be moved. So, it didn't happen now in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget because if you install it in the Fiscal Responsibility Act you cannot determine the nominal level of public debt, the law defines certain things of conduct and so on. However, the fiscal rule defined how income and expenditures that affect the deficit and thus the public debt, but the nominal amount of public debt, can therefore be determined by the Law on the implementation of the state budget, because it is a document that is limited to the duration of the year and if it regulates other things as well as the implementation of the budget itself, then the logical thing is that the final result of this budget is, in principle, the reduction or increase of public debt in GDP, being regulated by that act. And I don't think it would be good, it's my personal opinion, if it moved from the law than it would be more logical if the government changed the data, I mean look at it that's the figure everyone's talking about in Croatia, so it's nothing but simply put into act the way it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91899	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. We'll be done with work for the day. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, an emergency procedure. Have a nice evening tomorrow. Thank you. Session adjourned at 7:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91900	Final draft law amending and supplementing the State budget for 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 728. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on this proposal. Who's in? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 99 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 17 votes against the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative to explain the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Finance Minister respected Igor Radinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91901	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment of the Government reads: "Article 30(1) is amended and reads as follows: "In 2014 the debt of the general government in line with the European system of national and regional accounts in 2010 will be up to 82% of the total gross domestic product in 2014. year." The proposed amendment provides that in 2014 the debt of the general government, in line with the European system of national and regional accounts, will be up to 82% of the total gross domestic product in 2014. This article therefore changes in particular the definition of sovereign debt since the state debt has been announced and monitored according to the European system of national and regional accounts 2010, i.e. the ESA 2010. And these calculations are used in economic governance procedures at EU level, and the current definition of the general government's debt is significantly wider compared to the previous definition of the government debt, which was therefore 62%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91902	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91903	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, first of all, thanks on behalf of the HDZ Club for accepting our initiative to change this article because if there were no discussion of the HDZ Club on the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and there was no proposal, because, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we could not propose an amendment to an article that did not change, the Government had carried out something that, in accordance with the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, had to be done long ago. So, during the debate and the implementation of the 2013 budget, during the budget rebalance and during the debate on the implementation of the State budget for the first 6 months of this year, the government is from the HDZ Club, but the more important it is from both the European Commission and the independent international financial institutions, it was warned that the public debt of the Republic of Croatia will be around 81,82% at the end of 2010. But I'm saying, the government only made this amendment on our club's proposal, but I'd like to say something to my other colleagues and colleagues. Look, we get the public debt, which is basically the most generated by the government budget deficit. Because if you have a deficit, if you don't sell anything or take the money from the second pillar of retirement, you're bound to be in charge and cover that minus. The government is not taking him after ESA 2010. Our budget for 2014 is according to some government methodology. Because if you saw the opinion of the European Commission then you saw that the projected deficit for 2014 is 5.6% of GDP or around 9 billion. The level of this deficit is practically 5.5% next year, 2016 at 5.6%. However, this budget rebalance, which was adopted by a very interesting majority that cost 6 thousand kunas, says the deficit will be far less than 5.6%, and this proposed budget that we will discuss the day after that also speaks. In the law on the implementation of the state budget, you don't even have a mention. And secondly, it is not a public debt in the Republic of Croatia 82% of GDP due to reasons as stated by the government here. The European Commission did not deprive us last year of the state budget of 16 billion, nor this year of 19 billion. It was made by the government by its insubordination. Therefore, this budget explanation does not correspond to the actual state of play and did not share the public debt in GDP 82% due to ESA 2010, because if we are to talk about ESA 2005 then let's remember the government budget deficit in 2011 as it accumulated but then the ESA was in force in 2005. However, I would remind my colleagues and colleagues of something else, which is that we have been issuing guarantees to Croatian railways for 3 years instead of that position of subsidies that was once in the budget. Since these guarantees are easy to collect, since HZ therefore all those companies that were created once from a single company are unable to repay these loans, according to ESA 2010, practically all these guarantees must be included in the public debt and the question is, what are we going to do and what information will we have in the implementation of the 2014 budget? Is there going to be those guarantees that you've seen that every year there are 6 billion kunas and in most cases there are days for those who won't be able to deter those loans? So I say, on the one hand, thanks to the government for accepting the HDZ Club's proposal to make this right, but I think that because of the MPs it was correct to say that the real reason for this public debt increase is because when you look at the budget minus in these four years, only with that basis will the public debt increase more than 75 billion in this country. This is all that's put in there that's an old and famous thing and she doesn't need to surprise anyone, and no highway monetization will bring us anywhere near 60% of what's a massive criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-19-0.u91904	Thank you very much. There are no other clubs, no applications, no interested parties. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 106 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 10 votes against the adoption of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, making it an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, no abstentions and 36 votes against we passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendment adopted.
