ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-12-0.u96140	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 78th session held on 5 December 2014 discussed the request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure submitted to this committee by MP Boris Blažekovic. In accordance with the provisions of Article 236 and on the basis of all the competences set out in Article 60, the Committee unanimously proposed the adoption of the following opinion: - As regards the works of that request relating to the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament of 3 December 2014 the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, it is of the opinion that the formal assumptions for the decision referred to in Article 236 have not been met. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. With regard to the part of that request relating to the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament of 4 December 2014, it is necessary to specify that the provision of Article 239 is The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be prescribed to give notice to the representative if he acts contrary to the provisions of Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which, among other things, is prescribed that the MP should not speak of a subject that is not subject to discussion. Also, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure guarantee the right of the representative to take part in the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, to discuss them and thus publicly present his proposals, opinions and views. The President's duty shall be to enable each representative, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss as much as possible the subject matter of the agenda as possible, and his right to take due account of the provision of order at the sitting shall be discretionary to assess the reasons for giving the notice in accordance with the provisions of Article 239. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In view of the above, the Committee is of the opinion that the provisions of Articles 232, 237, and 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-12-0.u96141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The opinion of the Committee shall be decided without discussion. I'm voting on exactly what you heard, the opinion of the Constitution Committee. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament has been accepted by most votes, 91 for, 21 abstentions, nothing against. Thank you very much.
