ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70043	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues of the Croatian Parliament continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. It is now time to report on the work of the National Science Council of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 The Reporter is the National Science Council based on Article 13. Law on scientific activity and higher education. You received the materials by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. You received a report from this working body at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Damir Jezek, a member of the National Science Council. The president doesn't have a council, so I'm warning you right now it's on behalf of the Council. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70044	Dear Mr. President, distinguished members of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me to, as the current chairman of the new interim National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education of the Republic of Croatia, just briefly convey the greetings of all members who are still in office until, as you know, a new National Council for Science, Higher Education and so on. technological development or development. I'll be free to briefly just present a summary of what's in 2012. The National Council for Science tried to work in its mandate to give satisfaction or already to the benefit of our scientific regiment and science of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, on the basis of the article as stated by the President, eight and thirteen laws on scientific activity and higher education in the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012. The National Science Council held 9 independent sessions. Of course, for all Council meetings, records and recorded tone records have been kept. The National Scientific Council held meetings on issues of importance for scientific activity and proposed and encouraged the adoption of measures to improve it. It was mainly about topics and measures relating to the new Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and which, as you know, was adopted. Then a proposal for a new document that defines a network of public, scientific institutes. He's in the meantime and finished. The proposal for a new document defining the conditions and procedures for the establishment of scientific centres of excellence whose proposal is also defined and the conditions and criteria also presented to the Croatian Parliament, or the Committee on Science and Higher Education. The amendments and additions of the Rules on conditions of choice to the scientific calling that has been completed have then been made, but it has been annulled by the Constitutional Court as you know it has. Amendments and additions to the Regulation on the establishment and mode of operation of the regional councils and parent committees have been made to amend and supplement the Regulations amending and supplementing the Regulations on scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches. Some resolutions have been made for individual members of the parent committees and the appointment of new ones. The statutes of public scientific institutes for which consent has been sought from the National Science Council and in our jurisdiction. Opinions were then adopted on the granting of the power to carry out part of the so-called The selection procedures for scientific calls and the opinions given are on the removal of the shortcomings sought in the various letters of expectations sent to scientific organisations when assessing the quality and effectiveness of scientific and professional work. In addition to the professional activities of course carried out by the National Science Council by the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The National Council is based mainly on the active work of its appointed committees composed of numerous prominent scientists in the country and abroad. The work of the National Council for Science took place within the committees composed of its own members. The Presidents of the Regional and Scientific Councils and members of the National Scientific Council submitted a report on the work of the Scientific Councils. Also at the initiative of the National Science Council, some, therefore, the Scientific Committees were as we can tell the advisory bodies discussed many of the topics that the National Council of Science referred to for better discussion and coordination in order to give views and final conclusions of the National Science Council. The members of the National Council for Science were mainly engaged outside the meetings in the work related to the preparation of certain materials and the more efficiency of the sessions, and with the work of the parent committees of the regional Scientific Councils attended various lectures, consultations and other events related to Croatian and world science. Here, I wouldn't last any longer. I think this is a shorter one, a summary of the review, so I suggest that Mr. President if there are any questions, feel free to contact me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70045	Thank you very much. Please sit down. Does the president or representative of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture want to present a report? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Honored Vice President of the House Željko Reiner is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70046	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Professor. Jezek. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, it is not good for us to discuss the 2012 report in February 2014. That will, of course, be my observation to the other two points related to this issue. However, what I want to say and why HDZ will not accept this report is the fact that the report does not list a whole series of elements that must have been in it, and I am sorry that not those to whom this applies are sitting, but that is Professor Jezek, who is actually here to say so, is neither guilty nor obliged in any way. And that's also saying something about it because what I'm about to say is, well, they're not here, they didn't come, they didn't want to hear probably what this opportunity has to say. It is, first of all, a fact that I would like to remind myself that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has also made it very clear that this report is incomplete, that it should be significantly complemented, that the National Council in its work has not complied with legal obligations in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education during that period and that this report cannot be positively assessed. Of course, then there was a vote, and according to the two-vote party track, this report was accepted on the board, which I have now told you, and you can also check this in the minutes of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I don't have enough time to discuss all the elements of this report and point to everything that's supposed to be in that report that isn't standing. But I'm actually going to look back on some aspects. For example, in this report, when you read it, you can get the impression that during 2012, there was an overall idyllic approach both to the National Council and to the relations of the National Council to the regional councils, etc., etc. Well, that wasn't exactly the way it was. In particular, this refers to the full ignoring of the field scientific council on humanities. During the year 2012, especially in the second half of that year, I dare say the deviations in the functioning of the science system in Croatia, and a number of institutions have warned that this can have far-reaching consequences not only for the system of science and scientific activity but also for national interests, or for the development of Croatian society as a whole. The fact is that something similar happened without precedent, which is that the National Council for Science de facto began to function not as a parliamentary body, which is what it is but actually as an executive body of the Ministry of Science and Technology of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It is particularly harmful to say any action by the National Council related to the field of humanistic science. In fact, the Scientific Scientific Council on Humanistic Sciences reacted to the problems encountered by the action of the National Council through a series of correspondence and warnings but without any success. Let me only count on a few such documents, for example, the position of the Scientific Scientific Council for Humanistic Sciences on how to distribute financial support to scientific journals in 2012 and on the systematic discrimination of journals in the field of humanistic sciences. Then a statement about the dangers of humanistic sciences and a series of others. Instead of acting, I stress once again as Parliament's body, the National Science Council has actually started to function as an internal department, the Department of Science and Technology of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Of course, that was not good, and of course the whole series of institutions disagreed, however, without any success. All these oral and written protests about the harmfulness of such action in Croatian science have not found the right ears to listen to them. There have been a series of incompetent decisions by the National Council for Science, for example, made it impossible for a representative of the Scientific Council of Humanities to attend meetings of the National Council for Science. It's just I'd say the tip of the iceberg and one phenomenon that in itself should be condemned. In fact, earlier when the appointment of members of the National Council for Science was made in relation to the usual previous practice, one functional failure was not appointed as a member of the National Council of the Regional Council for Humanistic Sciences. However, this lack was successfully compensated by regularly calling on a representative of the Humanist Science Council to attend the National Science Council meetings. However, then it happened in the second half of 2012 that this practice was abruptly interrupted because, for example, we are now coming back to why I had previously pointed out twice that the National Council had become practically some department of the ministry, that the assistant minister of science, education and sports at the National Council's session in September simply challenged the legality of the presence of the President of the Regional Council for Humanistic Sciences at the meetings of the National Council for Science, and so it was completely excluded from the work and the possibility of influence on the National Council for Science. When a written explanation was sought, then a funny answer was received that there was suspicion towards the presidents of the Scientific Council of Humanities because they allegedly are not obliged to keep a secret as members of the National Council for Science, finished quote. It's literally a joke. Literally, I have no other words for this and in this way actually eliminated the Scientific Council for Humanistic Sciences, so one very significant council, one very important group, one significant scientific area, and so the District Council was not even informed of the decisions made, which concern humanistic sciences anymore. It is certainly something that is not good and shows a way of working that is not acceptable in any case. The problems were related to the Centre of Scientific Excellence also in 2012 to which there was a whole series of objections which were not accepted and which were not actually adequately responded. There were a whole series of remarks on the discrimination of magazines in the field of humanistic science on the occasion of the distribution of financial support for 2012. Even though it was one arbitration and non-transparent distribution of budget funds, unfortunately the National Council did not react even though it received a series of warnings and a series of remarks. Of course that's not good either, and when the Scientific Council on Humanistic Sciences protested about it, it received an easy response that this brought to the attention of the National Council and concluded that it was not responsible for the determination of the amount and method of distribution of financial support to scientific journals and journals for the popularisation of science provided by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Of course, an official, formalized answer that actually means nothing and doesn't answer the right question. I must say that such action by the National Council is something that was not isolated only in the second half of 2012, it was dragged into the beginning of 2013, it would otherwise be very interesting to listen, hopefully almost, to the 2013 report, the year in which, since 05.03, there was no President of the National Council and it had been working for months, under quotes, without presidents, without half members, then it was fortified by that law which, let's say in some way, has been bridged, however, it does not cancel this fact that it worked out without a president and without half the members legally elected, and previously, on a day before the National Council actually, after the mandate had expired, that disputed rule on the conditions of choice in scientific titled science that caused literally infidelity, storm, shock, shock, the whole scientific community, which resulted in the fact that people had been saved by the fact that the state of science was not necessarily necessary, that the state of the Croatian science, which had not necessarily needed to the need to the need to the necessary. I'm going back, and I'm taking the right to do this because I've been working my whole life with another group of sciences, which is biomedical research and natural sciences, but the fact is that the moves of the National Council during 2012, and this Regulation was actually literally, I can't say any other way or less, but rather the attempt to destroy Croatian humanities which, I remind all of us, are incompatibly linked to the preservation of national heritage, Croatian language, cultural identity, and that many have expressed their fears that Croatian Croatian humanities, Croatian history, all that the name of the connection with Croatian being, etc. Fortunately, it did not happen, I repeat, but it was also the result of the work of the National Council at the time, and all this is missing in this report and that is why we will, of course, reject this report because it neither fully nor truthfully reflects everything that happened with the National Council during 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70047	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, a replica within the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I have listened carefully to your presentations and you have mentioned this since we had this point at the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, but you will remember that many times on the same board we have had a situation where we have even unanimously reached amendments and unanimously reached conclusions and voted for it, however it has never been accepted by the competent ministry. With everything you've said about the National Science Council that de facto has turned into an executive body in the same way, it seems to me that the ministry is also treating the relevant parliamentary committee. I'll just say that there are three former ministers sitting on that board, several university professors who have very much what to suggest in this particular area that is very appropriate for something we call a political consensus. Because we believe that everyone will at least declare that they really care about Croatian education and science. Well, I don't know why you're surprised that it's only now being discussed and that the National Science Council is acting in the way you listed it when neither the parent board's remarks are made even when they're very well-intentioned and unanimously adopted and proposed to improve the situation and to reduce if you want and tensions are regularly rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70049	The reply to the replica of House Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70050	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Reverend Mesic, you're right. Unfortunately, we are witnessing something that is not good, and that is also how you correctly pointed out the example of this committee, but that concerns a number of other committees, unfortunately the executive power in this country over the last two years has been imposed as the crown of everything and as a matter of fact, a demurg of everything. The fact is that the position of the obviously executive authority is that both this Parliament and its bodies, executive committees are actually something to implement the will of the executive authority, which serves to realize what is being concluded on the other side of Mark's square and that the voices that come from here touch no matter whether they are from opposition or whether they are from rulings who think otherwise than what they think on the other side of Mark's square mean absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70051	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70052	Dear counterpart Reiner, I fully agree that it is opportune to discuss 2012 problems in 2014 but I doubt that many of the reports we are discussing in 2014 have been timed precisely to make it pointless. So imagine we discussed 2012 means 2013 was not the courage to discuss the State's Attorney's Office. It should certainly be commercially determined that work must be done in no more than a year of delay. When the press asked, it seems to me that it was the NATO session in Dubrovnik, whether the Parliament set its work within the deadlines, then it seems to me that the Vice-President of the Parliament has told me that everything the Parliament has set in its own deadlines, which is not true what it appears to be wrong. All these reports that are being discussed late in politics and even science is trying to submit to the ministerial concept that scientists also say, educators are often deluded and often counterproductive. So if we were to determine to the Rules of Procedure that reports for the past year have to be discussed here this year, then the obligation would make sense. And this doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70053	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70054	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Your Honor, I agree that there is no point in discussing a year and a few months after what happened at a certain time because, of course, the problems that are eventually being seen may or may not exist at all, or that they've already escalated so much that it still makes no sense what we're talking about here because the system is so damaged that unfortunately we can't fix it anymore. And I am completely in agreement with you, and here I believe that more colleagues of mine agree that, in the next amendment to our Rules of Procedure, we might put them inside that the reports must be discussed, accepted or rejected by the end of next year at the latest. Ideally it would be at the latest in the next half of the year if it could be done and then it would make some sense. This doesn't make any sense, of course, if, in the end, in all our discussions, we refer necessarily to events that happened later. Whether three months later, six months later or even recently a month ago, two precisely because no one remembers alive or has any meaning that happened a year or two ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70055	Thank you, too. Club HSU and respected representative Ljiljana Cvetović on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70056	President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What the Republic of Croatia needs most urgently to start production in different areas is a system of research activities of the economy. The assumption of designing such a network that would be a driver of economic activity is the co-ordinated action of competent state institutions. Today we are discussing the 2012 report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia. The National Council for Science is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of the entire scientific activities and systems of science in the Republic of Croatia. This most professional body dates the 2012 work report with March 2013, and is delivered to the Assembly 4 months later. For inclusion in the agenda, it was almost half a year so that parliamentary representatives discussed the report almost a year after it was completed. This time range is symptomatic of our community's relationship to science and research. The report explicitly mentions what I stated at the outset, the lack of coordinated action by competent state institutions and bodies, thus making it impossible to compete evenly with Croatian scientists for participation in European projects. The fate of scientific research projects is entirely uncertain, and no one is launching initiatives to co-operate with the economy. The intruding of competent authorities is the following example. The proposal for a programme of a specialist study that would be educated by communication experts with our most important economic partners in Europe in the approval procedure was lost somewhere in the interspace of the Ministry of Science of the Agency for Science and Higher Education of the Republic of Croatia. Programme promoters are without relevant information, and interested candidates and extra-universal partners are in wonder. In December 2012, the Deanial Conference of Facultys of Philosophy in the Republic of Croatia unanimously adopted a statement on the marginalisation of humanistic and social sciences and science and higher education in the Republic of Croatia. Changes in relation to the employment of scientific recruits, the financing of scientific journals and the model of funding scientific activity and science in higher education generally undermines the efforts so far made to create a knowledge society and cancel millions of investments in science and higher education of young scientists. In addition, the evaluation of humanistic and social sciences tries to impose criteria that are suitable for other fields of science, leading to a relative reduction in the funding of humanistic and social sciences. The funding model of scientific activities has three main shortcomings: it does not encourage the development of younger and smaller universities, favours one area of science to the detriment of other areas, e.g. natural, technical, biotechnical and biomedical sciences, to the detriment of humanistic and social sciences, not taking into account their specificity. Then he favors the institutes, and to the harm of the university. What will be the adverse consequences of this on the position of science and higher education, and thus on the overall social and democratic development of the country, we can only assume. The problem of young scientists’ employment is increasing. There is a huge discrepancy between the number of places planned for employment at the workplace of a scientific associate or professor and real needs and the number of scientific recruits who have doctored. This relationship points to the inconsistency of science development policy, and thus also to the state as we learn from European examples that developing countries are doing this precisely by investing in science, and our government is not only disowning the development of science, but also deprives those scientists in whom it has already invested large funds of taxpayers. In order to at least bring the average of the European Union closer to the number of researchers, more scientific recruits should be employed. According to EUROSTAT in Croatia, 3.6 scientists were employed in full-time, while in EU countries the average was 6.6, in the United States 9.4 and in Japan 10.3. We propose to the National Council for the Science of the Republic of Croatia to focus all its activities on proposing and encouraging the adoption of measures to improve it, but not by producing new regulations, but by quick completion of procedures, by insisting on the constitution of a network of state institutions, scientific and research institutions and economies in the appropriate time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70057	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70058	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Mrs Cvetovic, there were two things in your presentation that encouraged me to report. It's one of your notes, and I think she's absolutely in place and we all need to ask ourselves how it's possible that this report traveled from one side of Mark's square to the other side of Mark's square, and then six months didn't arrive on the agenda, etc., etc. But already this data is very interesting about this incredible path that would probably be shorter in the snail races. What you mentioned at the end, however, is something that certainly deserves our attention, I'm not sure whether or not they'll get it, and that's the fact that the number of researchers' employees has actually decreased significantly. In Croatia it is shrinking and it will continue to shrink because unfortunately, although our mouths are full of words that only science, education, technology can get us out of this catastrophic economic situation in real life, nothing seems to make science better funded, let alone better organised, but otherwise the results will be defeated. And they will reflect on the situation not tomorrow, but in five years or ten years. We have a situation today that young scientists go mass abroad and not only because they are better paid there, but because they have no working conditions here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70059	Next replica, Honored Representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70060	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Cvetovic mentioned here with the right not to be developed, that there is no relationship nor even an indicator of science or this Scientific Council towards the economy. On the other hand, this just means that even this model of science funding has not been developed, and then, as a consequence, it is this conflict that exists between social and natural sciences from more levels, from the level of evaluation of magazines, scientific activities, institutions etc. the consequence of this unimaginative model of financing, i.e. the relationship between science and the economy. So at the heart of social sciences, these are financed to a greater extent by natural and technical sciences, which would be normal. But it would also be normal to finance from the economy since the economy is primarily interested in implementing these, to use innovations from natural and technical sciences. In this sense, this model is complete, this report shows maturity and inadequacy, the inability of this National Council to face key problems of scientific development in Croatia. So it seems to me that you are absolutely right and that this should simply be rejected and asked for this system to change completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70061	Thank you very much. It is up to the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70062	Thank you, Mr President, a respected member of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Report, the National Council was included in the following activities in 2012. The Council discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. In the debate, it criticised certain intensities of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in changing the law. The Council considered that the proposed amendments were aimed exclusively at saving budgetary resources, and that it was missed to make progress in introducing funding by quality. Accordingly, changes are proposed to promote quality, but also to increase the funding of research science. The ministry accepted the proposed proposals. I'd just like to have one dipression here. It's not true, I wouldn't have sexed, but it's not true that it doesn't invest in science. This government has increased the isolation of science in previous years. Furthermore, the Council launched a debate on criteria for a network of public, scientific organisations in 2012 and began to establish scientific centres of excellence in the Republic of Croatia. Both have not been completed by the end of 2012, but much progress is expected over the years to come. Furthermore, three regulations were also discussed. Regulation on selection conditions for scientific calls, Regulation on additions to the Regulation on the establishment and mode of operation of the regional councils and parent committees, and Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches. The first rulebook was not adopted during 2012, and the other two regulations were adopted and published in the National Journal. It is important to add that the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulations on scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches in the field of biomedicine and health is added to the medical biochemistry branch, and in the artistic field the name of the branch of restoration and conservation is changed with the text of conservation restoration. Also in the artistic field is added the field of literature with branches writer and literary translator. During 2012, the Council co-operated with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and in fields relating to the allocation of coefficients by scientific fields for the calculation of financing of scientific activities. The Council also appointed the presidents and members of 23 parent committees, presidents and members of the six Scientific Councils and one Artistic Council, and made decisions establishing three expert committees, and this Expert Commission for the Development of Amendments and Completion of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the Expert Commission for drawing up a proposal for criteria for the development of networks of public scientific institutes, and the Expert Commission for drawing up a proposal for criteria for scientific centres of excellence. The Council was asked to agree on three amendments to the Statutes and the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, the Statute of the Institute for Agriculture and Tourism in Poreč, and the Statute of the Institute Ruđer Boskovic. The National Science Council has given its consent to all required amendments and additions to all statutes. For the development and dissemination of knowledge and information, and the acquisition of experience, a lecture and presentation was held for the members of the Council held by academics Milena Žic Fuchs on the topic of "New contours of the European Research Area, multidisciplinary as the basis of future research projects". Specially important point Report is the project of the return of Croatian scientists to the Republic of Croatia, where the Council sent the Croatian Assembly and Ministry of Science, Education and Sports a document in which it encourages the return of Croatian scientists, but also the arrival of prominent foreign scientists. It is believed that the election procedure in scientific calls is too slow, and concludes it will help speed up these processes. Finally, the Council shall adopt its financial report. The total budget of the National Science Council for 2012 amounted to one million and 712 thousand 736 kuna. The report states that the total number of all members for whom fees are made for work from Council activities is around 350 persons. According to the 2012 Report on the work of the National Science Council submitted by the Agency, it is clear that the Council was... active in a number of fields within its scope. And the SDP club accepts this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70063	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70064	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Tomic, you have beautifully counted this inventory similar to that mentioned in this report formally about it and, of course, real life was something else. I've talked about real life a little while ago, and especially the fact that you mentioned what you mentioned is that you're expected to make great progress in the coming years. We're constantly expecting some huge progress that isn't happening. Exactly what you said was now something increased funding for science. However, compared to what had been drastically small and drastically reduced. On average, Croatia singles out, and you and I both know three times less percentage of GDP than what developed countries single out and not wanting to accuse anyone at all, it is a fact that we all do not carry out together what is constantly declared, which is today I repeat only science, education and technology can get out of this catastrophic economic situation but the shifts in this sense are very small, very small. And when you mentioned the lectures of academia Milena Žic Fuchs, I must say, she was unfortunately just the president of the field scientific council for humanities that was forbidden to participate in 2012 more at the National Council meetings precisely because she spoke a dissonant tone which did not like the Minister of Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70065	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70066	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree that we can observe this report from two angles of view, one of which is yours, one of which is mine, and I'm really fact-finding everything that was good in this report. You mentioned some things that aren't good. I didn't agree with some of them. I didn't purposely replicate it because there would be too much of it. In particular, we are on the Committee on Science, which is what you said at the outset, you made some remarks, some members, and it came into the report and we agree with that in principle, but you yourself said that there are very little shifts in funding and in general in the scientific action of the ministry, did you expect these two years to be huge shifts? We just didn't even have a strategy. This ministry is now working on an education strategy. Once we adopt the education strategy that will follow, I hope that the consensus some of your colleagues often advocate will lead to the fact that funding, science and education will in general be greater and that the quality of science, education will be greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70067	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70068	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Tomic mentioned this that progress is expected in the coming years regarding centres of excellence. But that's what you'd say... You yourself have now said that there is no strategy of science, no strategy for Croatia's development, no strategic objectives of economic development, how you will decide on centres of excellence, on what basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, it is simply done on that quicksand, and it is sinking because there is simply no framework within which it can happen. On the other hand, you say this council worked to encourage the growth of scientists in Croatia, which sounds like a joke to us. How many people have gone from scientists or people with scientific qualifications to how much they leave Croatia daily. Nothing was done to ensure they were kept here. In 2012, only 20 new jobs were approved throughout Croatia, in all scientific institutions and at all universities. Therefore, we cannot talk at all about encouraging the return of scientists when we create only 20 new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70069	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70070	I'll try to say three things, so I'll be quick. I didn't say no strategies. On the contrary, the strategies are working, the education strategy in the public debate and you were also witnesses, there was Minister Maras when you spoke about economic strategies related to the education strategy that would probably bring some results. As for the people who are gone. We need to be aware that people have been leaving for all these 20 years, not just these two years. If they were really only leaving these two years, then there's really something wrong with this government. As for the departure of these people and the Council's initiative, simply the council cannot prevent these people from leaving, leaving these people will prevent other things, the policies of this government or some future governments, and we will see it. And in the end, I'd say just one example about my personal impression of where we were wrong about the development of science, I think we rushed the Bologna process. I think we hurried with the Bologna process, I remember a lecture from 5, 6 years ago where I was the guest of the distinguished professor from the Faculty of Philosophy in Maribor, one of the questions from the audience was sir how are you progressing? I note that we already had a fourth or fifth generation per bologna at the time. He said we're enrolling in the first generation of bologna this year. We're always the fastest when it's not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70071	Thank you, too. Honorable representative, the HNS Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70072	Mr President, fellow Members and colleagues, the National Council of Science and similar councils and bodies in these delicate areas, which should have some autonomy, have the task of preserving science from politics. However, it seems to me that this report on the work of the National Council for Science does not show that we have managed to make this balance between the management of which of course policy should lead, preserve autonomy and facilitate the cooperation of the scientific drive and the governing political drive. According to this, it seems to me, we have only transferred mainly these administrative functions to a scientific independent institution such as the National Council for Science and turned it de facto into some department of a ministry which is now engaged, as it says in this report, by laying down regulations, by appointing the regional councils and parent committees. So it's about those jobs that should actually be done by some kind of administrative organization. Of course, personneling, the adoption of regulations is an important thing, but the National Science Council should have a little more space, focus on considering and contributing to the development of science, and there is hardly a single sentence here in this entire text that speaks of the state of science in the Republic of Croatia. So when it comes to the Council's contribution to the adoption of a new Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the same is most said about what technical solutions, which are the powers, which are appointments, so this National Council is in some way competing, it is in relation to competence with the ministry, it is some division of powers, but it is not seen what the role of this council is in promoting Croatian science, quality. One of the only sentences that I have been able to spot from these many objections made to the law is that in the bill of law, which we adopted here in the Croatian Parliament, it is missed to make any progress in introducing funding according to quality and promoting excellence. It is written in this opinion, i.e. the report, and that is all that is said in significant terms in this report on Croatian science and higher education, i.e. Croatian science, because it is a report by the National Council for Science and I do not think that this is a good situation. Of course, it is not easy to resolve the issue of independence of any institution and area because wherever you release independence, of course there are some policies, there may be no party policy, but there are other policies and when you see that, which are conflicts within the National Council for Science and then, of course, the regional councils coming out of the National Council for Science, then you see that neither the independent position of science provided by this solution has essentially led to a quality solution. This conflict over the rules on appointment in scientific learning shows, in fact, all the inability of this model to solve this problem. The conflict between the Regional Council for Social Sciences and the Regional Council for Humanistic Sciences seems to me to be the other parts of the National Council, i.e. the other Regional Councils, telling me about the inability of that body and that model to solve this problem. Thus, according to the report, the National Council for Science stands one almost unimaginable assessment of the position of these other two councils, so the Council for Humanistic and Social Sciences, that they missed, so they wanted, these two councils with their opinions aware of the area of appointment in the scientific council on the lowest common denominator on productivity and international visibility of scientific productions, which means that they wanted the lowest level of quality of science to be relevant for the appointment of the scientific council and, if so, I find it almost difficult to imagine that it could be so that the two regional councils have such a position, it seems to me unimaginable, it seems more to me to say what the perception of the National Council of Science on those two scientific councils is than it could really be the position of these two scientific councils. So these are serious things. Here and here were the speeches just before in the replicas and in the presentations of some fellow representatives on behalf of the clubs that in fact no area of competence of the National Science Council actually has clear criteria. Valuation of scientific organisations according to which criteria based on a letter from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the National Science Council estimates that a scientific institution has met the conditions to continue action, and some others are not, this is really problematic. For example, here it is said that the Institute of Migration and Nationality is an institute that is a relic of time from 30 or 50 years ago. The Institute which employs 68 people, who has been working for the last 50 years with a funny name, by the way, has received a permit for work, and some other institutes and scientific organisations have not, but by no means can we conclude that this institute has received this certificate for a reason, on criteria, and others have not, and as it is not, therefore, criteria for the evaluation of scientific organisations, there are no criteria for setting scientific centres of excellence either. So the main question remains whether it will be one or two national councils for science and higher education or whether it will be joined as it is by an existing solution. This institution which now submits the report that we are discussing does not actually exist. Today, there is a National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and this is one of the major objections of the National Council for Science at the time of law-making, and these issues are essentially secondary issues. What kind of organisational scheme will be, it may not be necessary to be irrelevant, but it is not the most important issue about the functioning of scientific activities and higher education, which is one of the crucial remarks made by the National Council for Science in the adoption of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. My colleagues and colleagues, the final conclusion is that we have definitely not solved the question of the independent participation of scientists and science in the conduct of scientific policy, that we have just transferred administrative competences, that there is no real concern and strategic interest in science, that only 20 years are being talked about, and that everything remains the same all the time, that these solutions may be technical goods, but they are not functionally good. The club of HNS representatives will accept this report because there is nothing to do. It is a 2012 report that no longer exists, but it should be hoped that not only the new formal solutions of new divisions that are not as I said most important, but the overall relationship that science has with the competent ministry, but the Croatian Parliament will lead to the fact that science is actually discussed in terms of its real meaning and potential, not as a mere bureaucratic case in which only some there are competing who will be in a position of power and who will not. It is certainly not a path that will lead us out of this overall social and economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70073	Thank you, too. We're going to the replicas, the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I agree with the great majority of what you said, almost everything. You've very correctly detected a major problem, and that's policy-based relations when it comes to science. It's also on the trail of what I was saying. In fact, the relationship between politics and the national council, of course, exists and will always exist. However, it does not matter what kind of relationship it is, whether it is a subordinate body to carry out the tasks and to carry out the tasks directly given there by the Assistant Minister sitting at these meetings or by that body on the basis of their knowledge, all of the experiences that scientists gathered in it are making certain views, certain decisions which are then implemented or not implemented, the advice is accepted or not. However, as an illustration of the relationship is other than the fact that it is not about the division of power but unfortunately about the extended arm of power because that function is performed by the National Council, the illustration is the best relationship related to the Regulation on conditions of choice in scientific titles when at the meeting of the Committee of this Assembly certain critical remarks were made, then a letter came from the National Council so far incorrectly, both in tone and in terms of qualifications that it also responded to it by one letter. He tactically of course avoided being here today because he should probably talk about his conviction... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70075	Thank you very much. Time. And a reply to the line, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70076	Well, fellow Reiner isn't just a matter of science. We also keep talking about the relationship between profession and politics, so when someone needs to have independence, they talk about the profession, and we generally have not met the conditions for the profession to be independent, so those who declare themselves and move in the space of politics as so-called. Experts are actually like you just said an extended kind of policy and therefore false experts. And since they're better off being gone because they're capable of sacrificing the interests of the profession for the bill of politics and what politics carries. But this is the situation with us in general not only in the field of science but everywhere else, and that kind of speech would try to replace it in some way as a fraud and as a lie. It's the same as you say in the field of science. I'm less understood in this area, I've met this phenomenon in all the other areas I've dealt with as a politician, but the worst fact is that this is happening in the field of science as well. In the field of science, which at the level of the National Council for Science, and in particular the regional councils, and of course in the area of the parent committees should be a space for full autonomy. But that autonomy shouldn't be autonomy without responsibility, that's the problem. This is the problem when you give some segment, some drive independence in managing the public interests of public affairs, then you should also create mechanisms for the responsibility of the institution of that drive. We can turn that from science and end up in courts but we won't go that far. Mostly fellow Reiner, I'm glad we agree on this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70077	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70078	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, Radoš, with the whole part of your exposure, I will agree, although it is not my custom. And in one part of your presentation you were entitled to unlike some other debates in this House. What you said in the replica when experts go into politics then devalue their professional value, it would not be good to be heard by Mrs. Pusic or Mrs. Andrea Zlatar Violić from the university professors, it would turn out that they were no longer experts when they went to politics without speaking to some other professors at the universities who are here and in the Croatian Parliament. That's how it turns out, you correct me if I'm wrong. As for your presentation, I'll just look back on two sentences. The HNS Club may refuse the report, in fact it would be principled and correct based on what you said. The first report you criticize and then you say there's nothing else we can do but accept it, and you openly criticize it because it comes from a SDP minister who is very often in conflict with the Deputy Prime Minister from your party. ... First vice president, that's right, buddy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And at the same time as the proposals from your ministries that are just as bad as this report, then you defend it with all the forces and all the existing and non-existent arguments. So you have a choice. Last report on what you say for 2012 so you can clearly express your position when you have already justified it, I repeat, and here I agree with you, then you can do it by the end as a HNS club. I believe you understand me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70079	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70080	I hope I understood you fellow Mesic, but you obviously didn't understand me. So I don't understand why such a level of showing natural dissension with my views and not in this area but in general, you shouldn't have called it in your current debate. And you didn't understand what I was going to say when it comes to political experts, so not those people who are totally entering the world of politics, but so on. experts who are never in politics, who are always in politics. That's what I was talking about, and that category is actually a category of political use, and it should certainly be defined in that sense. So an expert should be independent, his opinion must not be questioned by politics, and his appointment should not have anything to do with politics, and of course it is proven to be professional. However, we have a reverse situation, in order to be appointed by a policy in some bodies, it is assumed that you are willing to sacrifice your profession. And that's the nakarada I was talking about, and it has nothing to do with someone from their professional and professional field entering politics permanently, without the rest, with all the risks that politics carries, and not hiding somewhere behind the back of politics and acting like a profession, and actually getting all the possible benefits as politics. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70081	Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70082	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Radosh, I agree with your conclusion on this report you've made, but I don't understand how you came to accept it. However, I'm not sure I understand exactly what you're saying about your finding that the district council for social sciences, for humanistic sciences, advocated the lowest level of quality of science, that this is inexplicable. And it seems to me that the problem is in something else because it posts international visibility, as it says here, of scientific production and that means that scientific production is valued according to what is shown in the databases primarily web of science..., which is simply one criterion that is irrational and not scientific at all that would be relevant for scientific production. These are commercial databases, these are databases that 70-80% of their own or even much more than just articles, i.e. works only in English and are focused on scientific policy and scientific production primarily by the United States, or one world. It would be much more logical for Croatia to develop crosby as one system to evaluate scientific production and it is one quite different dimension of the evaluation of social, humanistic sciences, a problem that has existed for hundreds of years as recognizable, and somewhere since the 1950s the last century has been intensively spoken and written about these differences...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70083	Thank you very much. Time's up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70084	The differences between certain social... sciences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70085	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70086	Well, here's colleague Tudjman, I wasn't actually saying what you said, I was just questioning it. Therefore, the National Council for Science's report speaks of the positions of the district councils for social and humanistic sciences, and it is said that they wanted to be aware in their views of the criteria of evaluation on the lowest common nominal in terms of productivity, international visibility of scientific production. That's what they say, and I'm saying, abstractally intercede some logic and attitudes of these two councils, and I find it impossible that these two councils can be in that position, that they can advocate the lowest common nominal in terms of productivity and international visibility of scientific production. So I've expressed my doubts about that attitude, and in fact that attitude speaks of conflicts that exist. So, if they are capable of such a drastic extreme interpretation of the views of the two regional councils, it speaks of how conflicts exist in this drive that no solution can be made. I agree with you on the difficulty of estimating production in social and humanistic sciences that it is of course different than in technical sciences and in some other sciences, but it must be set up. And if it takes 100 years then something's wrong and there's got to be some kind of verification. Not only can verification be published articles in magazines in which those who publish membership and members of the editorial office are. Is that the technique of estimating the scientific part? It certainly isn't, but it should and can be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70087	Dear representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70088	Dear colleague Radoš, I agree with almost all the grades you have given by discussing this report. However, it seems to me that you have really been a failure to talk about the administrative affairs that the National Council has done about, twice, the choice, or the conditions for the choice in titles. I'm going to talk about them as part of these administrative jobs. In view of the fact that the choice itself in calling and defining the conditions for the choice in calling was a very important part of that university and scientific autonomy and that there were a lot of obstacles at the level and the Constitutional Court on this basis. I think it's still kind of a topic. I think it's very important in that part to be quite precise. It's really not about administrative matters. It is indeed something that such independent bodies must do. You mentioned it to me in response to the replica of my colleague Reiner, but also in the debate before the question of responsibility which must then necessarily go with it. It is indeed a question of whether there is a way or in which we can appeal to it or any other way, how it might be asked when it may not already be emancipated by these bodies at the level at which we might expect it to actually be. I have actually volunteered to point out that it may be more specifically that it is a part of autonomy that must not be part of administrative affairs, which must not be part of what is done through the ministry or even through Parliament or through any part of the political decision. It has its other side of the medal, that's what you're talking about, and that's what I agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70089	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of registered clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly for discussion in this topic and replica. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Professor Damir Jezek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70090	Dear Mr. President, distinguished members of the Croatian Parliament. So let me at least briefly, although it's a little difficult for me to have the privilege of being able to replicate as quickly as you do. But here's what my colleague Reiner said, I have neither to blame nor to defend my position, at least part of the attitude relating to the National Council for Science. I primarily think that this constituency, the Croatian Parliament should take care of what I would say in part and say in all these discussions began by the academics Reiner and all the way to here are colleagues Radoš and Tudjman etc. I think it is actually the essence of the Croatian Parliament not to discuss whether someone is invited or not invited to some session which I can explain later. But to discuss something much more important. Does the Croatian Parliament have an impact on the distribution of funds, material resources for the development of this science, on the development of jobs Mr. Radoš was saying. We're unfortunately in a situation, at least I'm like, I'm gonna say here an independent member of the National Science Council and I can say that I'm not a member of any party. I don't know if it's in my favor or not, but in any case I didn't feel subordinate to anyone or anything, at least that's where we decided. And I think all we did was work on the good development of science. Right, it can always be the influence of one of the members on some kind of political event or not to say political parties, but we can't take it from any of us I don't know, I can't even prove it. However, what Reiner said about humanistic sciences, social sciences, to be perfectly clear. The problem was that a member of the National Science Council must be appointed by you. If that member is not appointed, he cannot attend meetings of the National Science Council. You called me today as rapporteurs, but I'm sure you won't invite me to every meeting, or assembly. And I'm not going to be disappointed about it right now and appeal for it to be outrageous, etc. So, a member, if you'd like to know, a representative of humanistic social sciences was an academic, Mosh. He is in his, esteemed member etc., but since he is not the president of the District Council Professor Wic Fuchs was occasionally invited, called as I today as rapporteur. But unfortunately, she cannot be invited regularly to every session if there is no need. I think you'll agree with that. That's one problem to solve right now. The second thing was the distribution of funds for scientific journals. Indeed, the Scientific Council for Science does not have the power to distribute these funds. It's like I'm being bitter and angry here right now that you haven't responded to the distribution of financial resources at my university. Why? Well, because it's not in your jurisdiction. Therefore, I can neither be disappointed nor sad, nor bitter, nor in that sense. I think I'll just explain. As regards the distribution of resources for science that we have brought to the National Council is in line with European standards. We're even a little out of it, so let's be you so-called. coefficients because ERANET, so-called So the European Research Area is one yet another area which is significantly financially stronger than ours, so we took care of the specificities of our sciences as humanistic as it is social. We have asked the District Council for socio-humanist sciences, so as far as the Regulation is concerned, as we ask for the opinion of each area council to propose to us what it would be to improve the development of science on their part. What my colleague, Radosh, said, I completely agree. So they didn't say anything at all. They said it's how it's supposed to stay. We've respected their fact and it's true that we're not so many idiots that we won't, that we're going to shut down the Croatian language. So do you really think that we members of the National Council don't take care of such things? But you have to be recognized in world databases, not only webs since but also webs norwich. Not everything can be considered, it's not the only thing to take into account the citation of the web on Norwich, I absolutely agree with Mr. Tudjman. But in particular, books, magazines in Croatian, published by social communist sciences, have been recognised by them by a much greater publication of books, which is more significant and more important to us than to be quoted in the web's Norwich but someone has to recognize it in the world. He has to say he's also good at the world level. How will he know it if it is not only in Croatian. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70091	Thank you very much for this occasion. The Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner has a replica on your display.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Jezek, two things moved me to report, one of which you said at the beginning of your presentation that you did not know whether the Assembly had an impact on the distribution of money in science. I'll give you an answer, there is, and certainly there's just not that because it's done when you bring a state budget. We will unfortunately because of the government's failure because it can only be called the lack of any vision of the development of Croatia and Croatia's economy two months after the adoption of the previous budget now we will now discuss probably the rebalancing of the budget and again it is now time for everything we swear to do here to realize, to say, if we really care about the development of Croatian science, we will give more money to Croatian science, of course it will be a little less money for something, but if it is our real decision not only so declarative and convenient when some point of the same area is discussed as unfortunately this, then it is the moment when we can give more money for science. That's one thing. The second thing, however, is what I have to say and what is related to social humanistic sciences. You said part of this correctly, however, let us be aware that if someone does, for example, work from the collection of dialects on the island of Vis, there is no way that this work that must be in Croatian should be published in a world-valuable magazine because it simply cannot be done. There must therefore be ways for such works that are important to Croatian culture and Croatian beings to be equally valued and recognised rather than ignored. So that path still has to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70093	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Jezek, would you like a replica? Thank you very much. I mean, you're entitled to it. Honorable representative Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70094	Dear Professor, you said we should discuss the distribution of funds and not something else in the Croatian Parliament. In the Croatian Parliament, we should discuss all issues concerning higher education and science. We should discuss the current situation, but we should also discuss the desired state. But we should also warn of adverse events and unwanted conditions. It's just... The rules on selection conditions for scientific calls are bad but for a year and a half it has been proposed even worse and it is reported nothing but mentioned that it has not entered into force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the problem? The problem of higher education and science is not analysed at all. The doctors of the profession are chosen as scientific titles and you know that they must not be chosen, the doctors of the profession and there is that in the area of higher education. Bologna is a science about high education long-term and irreparable damage. I've never read it anywhere in any document and it's undeniable. We have a 1371 study program, I've never read anywhere in a review report is it great, is it desirable or is it bad? There's no such thing. It's just a finding. The process of equating higher schools and university studies is being introduced, which is socially devastating. Once we stand up against it, a process is introduced, I said the other day, the process of equating university studies and higher schools is being introduced, and who dares to do so is only the one who has passed the process of quitting from thinking. We have to put an end to it and who will if they don't want the Council for Science and Higher Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70095	Thank you very much. Yes, a replica, Your Honor, Mr. Damir Jezek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70096	I fully agree with this second piece of study and all but it is the National Council for Higher Education responsible, this is just for science but I totally agree on these expert and other studies that need to be separated, absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70097	Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for ten minutes. It's time for the Honorable Representative Happy Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70098	I was actually thinking whether to give up the debate or not because it seemed like everything was already said on the board but my colleague Jezek wouldn't let me do it. Hezek began his presentation with the conclusion that the National Science Council in 2012 worked on the overall satisfaction of the scientific regiment. Now I'm not going to elaborate on what the scientific regiment means, but this pleasure has been particularly surprising to me. I experienced it as a Croatian speaking spin because in 2012 the Scientific Council made a whole series of gaps in what it did and even more failures in what was to be done and did not work. The Scientific Council is the strategic body of the Croatian Parliament and the science and education are strategic activities in the programme and these Governments and in the coalition agreement. Therefore, he deserves special attention from all of us. It seems to me that the National Science Council has failed to perform that function. I remind you colleagues and colleagues that we in the Croatian Parliament have almost always had problems and difficulties with the National Council for Science. But sometimes we got the strength to reject the report and once we stopped the election of the president of the National Science Council. And we also had problems with our colleague Jezek with the National Science Council with the selection of members you are a member and we made noise about it in 2009. My dissatisfaction with the work of the National Council has not been reduced, though. In 2012, you made errors that were procedural, you made failures that were substantive or substantial, and you made failures, I will add the third, in fact, two key argumentative dimensions, decisions of the Constitutional Court which abolished the Regulation, I will add to you a third, never one body of the Croatian Parliament has caused so many dissatisfactions and so many protests, dissatisfactions and protests of certain university teachers, dissatisfaction and protests of deans, dissatisfaction and protests of united deans at joint meetings, rectors, institutions. My colleague Jezek, the rector's choir. There's not a word about it in the report. The Constitutional Court ruled on a Regulation based on the activities of the National Science Council in 2012. There's not a single word in the National Science Council's report. And it's actually about that. Then, along with the 2012 National Science Council report, I received a report from the Scientific Scientific Council for Humanistic Sciences. These reports are not only contradictory, but contradictory. There's not a single word about it in the National Science Council report, and the regional council is your component. So, you body that appointed you don't file reports on the reality of things. I don't think it's good for you or for us or for the scientific and academic community. This is a long list of what I think should have been done, and it wasn't done. I remind you that the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education have a common body called the Financial Committee. This Financial Committee should also give an opinion on the distribution of relations in the state budget for science and for higher education. That body didn't work. I remind you that on two occasions, at least I saw on two occasions that Croatia has scientific advisors, or regular professors, one in 34 years, the second in 36 years, I did not see the denials of the case. Never did the National Council of Science or, in fact, the parent boards of the district councils have launched some kind of audit to see who was elected as a regular professor at 34 years of age, and not a Nobelian and internationally known scientist, and here he was elected to a proper calling after which he could no longer progress. Among other things, we've disabled a man so he can't move forward anymore. The financial situation in science has been going down steadily since 2009. The National Science Council didn't report on it, didn't scream, didn't warn. It's special to you in my eyes, the crime scene, that you've allowed scientific research projects to enter now, if I'm not mistaken in the eighth year, contracts have been signed for 3 years in the vast majority of cases. At the beginning of the 3rd year, we have not yet adopted criteria for new scientific research projects, which we expected from the National Council for Science as a strategic body. Although others didn't do it to start a debate. That wasn't the case either. So, I don't really know what to tell you. Basically, there is another systemic and methodical problem. We don't hear from each other. The current speaker of the parliament began his term of office with the words "let me talk to you". We don't hear from each other in science. I'm not going to read to you now what was said on the board on the National Council report. We asked you to complete it, you didn't even think of doing it by coming before the Parliament. You'll know better the reasons why, but if in science, in scientific activity, we don't hear academic activity, if we don't follow the arguments, then we also trampled on everything we talked about democracy and everything we wanted to improve science and everything we actually considered the corresponding virtues of Western civilization. And in this respect, of course, I cannot accept your report with one more note, especially in the new democracies, we stand at a very serious and difficult crossroads, a intersection on the concept of politics. Will politics be a place and a place to negotiate or will it be a way to forward someone's conclusions, i.e. transmission and violence? In a whole series of your activities, you acted this other way. And I believe that the reports are opportunities and needs to learn appropriate lessons from previous practices and their criticisms. If that won't be the case, then this is all in vain. So I can't accept this report with all these arguments that I've made with another maybe note, I'm not sure I'm right. I'm sure we have the right arguments but I'm willing to listen to other arguments. But you come with arguments, let's talk about it so we can make a deal. That's my appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70099	Thank you very much, Your Honor, we have a replica. First replica of House Vice President Zeljko Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70100	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Representative Flego can't agree with most of what you said because it seems to me that it's exactly in line with what I've been saying, but most of the other colleagues. It is necessary, however, to point out once again that when we talk about the National Council, we are talking about the strategic body of the Croatian Parliament, so this House. And if you just look at it, and I'm going back to it because I can't get past it, you're very gentlemen's refugees to mention it, but I'm going to mention it again, the incredible relationship of the National Council to the Committee of this Education, Science and Culture, which the National Council has responded to a public debate about that shameful rule that later and the Constitutional Court have abolished. I can't go over it because the way you communicate, and that's consistent with what you said we couldn't hear each other. We seem to be hearing each other, perhaps even too well heard in some segments, but in the wrong sense, the way we communicate to the completely inappropriate scientific community, qualifications, and now I will make it clear and if you want not only the entire board but also you personally, completely inappropriate in the scientific community but absolutely inappropriate also to communicate one part of this Parliament with the committee in charge. It's something that you can't and can't cross over for the sake of the dignity of all of us sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70101	Thank you, too. A new replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70102	Thank you very much. Comrade Flego, you made your point and you said you weren't sure if you were right, but that you had pretty solid arguments. For all the arguments you've made are totally acceptable, maybe I'm not right about what I'm saying, but I've been listening very carefully and what's missing is really missing talking at all. It's a closed system that doesn't hear or see anything. When it comes to the Electoral Regulation, you said it was not a word of it, and I said it myself, yet one sentence was written, that it had not even come into force and that they were expressing regret that it had not entered into force. Probably because the entire scientific regiment approved such a rule. Well, I think the regiment reflects the crowd, and science can't possibly be about the crowd. When it came to the rules of choice, you also mentioned that when he was elected at the age of 30 he was elected to a professor where he would make more progress. It's like when someone becomes 28, 30 years old, the CEO, which is going to work at 50, 60. But everything turned into writing and publishing articles. So let's say the surgeons who work every day can't make any progress, operate, and don't leave the O.R., and then be underestimated even for that. But the one where the Science Council scheduled not only elections and regulations on choice in scientific calling, but choices and deans. Directly now, the minister determines the appointment of the high school dean, which is unacceptable. Teachers always chose the dean. But there's another practice that closes your eyes, that now and at universities almost teachers don't choose now, more and more students choose Deans and universities. It was even the idea that the Rector of the University of Zagreb would also be elected with the votes of students. Lucky that's...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We continue with the debate, the individual debate of the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70104	I would start with that finding by my colleague Flag who said that the National Science Council is the Strategic Body of the Croatian Parliament and that it should begin with a realistic description of the situation. Therefore, in this report we should have had the first framework, which means what is with the development strategy of science. This strategy of science development is unfortunately not just dependent on the national council, because it must be part of Croatia's Development Strategy, the Strategy for Economic Development and other strategies in order to recognise the role of science. On the other hand, this funding model and data on science financing should then be implemented. Today we have heard that Croatia is one three times less invested in science than developed countries, but according to other data, they are initially in Finland or some other countries are investing 5 to 7 times less in science. On the other hand, this funding model is such for us that investment from the economy to science is minimal. As far as strategic assessments are concerned, it would be normal then to suggest to this council how to bring this ratio into line because in most of these developed countries it is at least 50-50, 50% from the economy from this. However, the overall mechanism does not stimulate science evaluation criteria to go into developmental and applied research but only stimulates and values primarily what is called fundamental research, and thus again we have a paradox that as a less developed country we finance and contribute to the developing countries. Therefore, the way that we already evaluate ourselves, another approach to evaluation would change these relations and stimulate the economy to participate in science financing. When it comes to the evaluation of science and scientific production, we are in one again, we are doing it from one perspective that still sees all colleges, universities, scientific institutions within the public sector and that is true that most of it is in the public sector, but the whole system is slowly collapsing precisely because we have an increasing number of private universities that are in general, and we will have universities that will not or will not have to behave according to these criteria. Today you have ZŠEM, Zagreb School of Economics and Management which has the only license and is one of the best economic schools in Europe. They'll start producing doctors because they have such contracts, they'll have these licenses, they'll have to be recognized, and they'll have a live fuck for this system of evaluation, I mean rightly, it's not a avoidance. On the other hand, on the other hand, to return to what counterpart Jezek said that social humanities must also be recognized in the world. It's another model over these databases, no matter what it's called now. Tell me which Americans for their choice in knowledge or the English watch whether they are quoted in.... They have another criterion, at least she or part of what I know, which is if someone is elected to a scientific calling form one committee or commission, from members who aren't just from that university and watch what those people wrote and gave it worth it. Therefore, there is no reason why we should not use the same criterion. I've been sitting on the parent committee there for 3-4 terms, and these commissions can simply be abolished because you can computerly and add up A1, A2 papers, and each, I'm not going to say one ugly word now, so I'm going to say every average man who is persistent and consistent can publish several scientific papers in a year, go to those international meetings. Therefore, every 4 or 5 years he may be elected for more than one term. On the other hand, what I would say is, what is a crime and this scientific council to use terminology and these policies is that it has agreed not to extend the contracts or to find a place to hire 2.5 to 2600 scientific recruits. I asked it as a representative question to the government, so the answer came through the ministry and this. That the employment policy of 2600 funding scientific recruits means those who end up with a doctorate, that it destroys or destroys the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. Well, it really takes a man out of his mind to sign something like that at all. In other words, 2500 doctors we either throw on the road or send abroad and give people experts on which to build the future of science and scientific activities, or economies. So it's something that's simply not allowed. We don't even have one, and I think this National Council should have a methodology for calculating what a loss it is for Croatia when someone you train to a doctorate and then send it to you, to tell others that it works for others without effect, or without using it in Croatia to develop scientific activities and even the welfare of Croatia. And maybe one more thing, to take advantage of here, there's been a lot of words here about the relationship between politics and science. I think that's a lot of simplification, or scientists and politicians, because in my opinion it's a matter of responsibility. If you're a scientist, you have a responsibility for what you do. If we take this metaphor whether we need to produce an atomic bomb or not, it is not a question of science or knowledge that it is done but whether it is meaningful, justified or will be a question to a greater or lesser extent to produce genetically modified food. So this relationship is a little different, it's a matter of responsibility. It's a clear thing that these scientific criteria don't collapse or rise. Therefore, in this sense, this as a strategic body of the Scientific Policy-Making Parliament has this responsibility, regardless of what is scientific, which according to its habitat should be scientists. They have the responsibility and to criticise both official policy and informal policy, i.e. to make their proposals for the development of scientific activities, and to what extent this will be decided will depend on the circumstances. So I'm going back to this one thesis on scientific centres of excellence. We simply have no criteria, we have no visions, we do not know how many millions of euros or something we would not know who to give it to because we simply do not know by what criteria and for what purposes, which would be the basic task of these Centres of Excellence. No more, no one can develop all scientific areas, all scientific disciplines. It's the most beautiful thing to do, to choose your theme, and to devote your whole life to it. But when I talk about scientific policy, then priorities should be set, and from this report we do not know what the priorities of scientific development in Croatia are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70105	Thank you very much. We have replicas. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70106	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Tudjman. Here's where you put a few problems. One of them is three times the funding of the Croatian state in science, and what I think may be the biggest problem is that our finished doctors are going abroad because unfortunately they are not being invested in. However, there is another problem that may not be related to this agenda point, or to the National Council, but I think it might even be. It's about students, or it's about young people who are their colleges here I'm going to talk about art endings, so outside of Croatia. So I'm going to point out that in the countries we're now an EU member, but when they were studying then we weren't parents taking loans, they were studying at conservatory schools, high music schools. Now they're back in Croatia not wanting to stay outside Croatia, wanting to get a job here. However, the Agency for Science and its Office in charge of nostrification of a diploma which should be answered within 60 days for a year does not correspond. These young people, although they have the possibility of employment, can't get a permanent job because they simply don't have the degree they're looking for. And then they work on the contract, and just like these doctors you mentioned, of course they think about going outside of Croatia because they paid for their studies, parents paid for it, they want to work here, and indolence is unremembered here simply in that Office of Nostrification diploma.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70107	Replica reply, Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70108	I do not know the details of these nostrations, but in principle, especially now that Croatia is an EU member, this nostration should be institutional. Namely, to recognise the automatically defined colleges, certain studies, not individually. So that part, I don't see why there has to be such a stalemate in these nostrations. Maybe if it were the first case for a college until it was settled, then it would have been justified, but it's usually not. On the other hand, we have each other, one option in terms of evaluation now not to say diploma, but scientific status. Take, for example, UK if I'm a regular professor at one university, it doesn't mean if I move to another university that I'm going to have the same status as a regular professor, but they're going to define by their criteria what that status is. So it can vary, but it does not conflict with what you said that elemental level, meaning and today the university's ready elemental level it must be nostрified especially if we keep to ourselves or at least Croatia should say which universities or universities will not recognise so that people know in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70109	Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70110	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Tudjman. You have mentioned very well one of the key problems I would say at this time of Croatian science, and this is the fact that we have two and a half thousand young scientists in whom Croatian society has invested huge resources obviously with the idea of being the future of our sciences chosen by strict criteria, with which it is not known what under quotes to do, for which you have received a very embarrassing response to their employment to bring down the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we directly or indirectly talked about here, which is that such actions will lose our science and the status it now has. Because these young people were supposed to be our future together. If we drive them out, and we drive them, we push them directly, not indirectly. We're making them go out in 10 years, in 15 years, the remains of the remains of our science, and then we're all gonna be surprised or some other guy who's gonna sit here so surprised how it happened. So, our decisions today related to science funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70111	Thank you, too. Replica reply, Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Reiner, we won't feel it in ten years, but we feel it, we feel the consequences already today. On the one hand, these scientific money was mostly in colleges, the university and the work of their engagement were engaged, the work of their capacity was hired and continued. Since they are now leaving, they disappear as there is no increased number of teachers, teacher obligations are increasing and thus affecting the quality of teaching or preparation of teaching. That's one thing. On the other hand, what has already been said, the funding of scientific projects is on the exhale, there are no new projects, a solar solution so focus now on EU funds which in principle sounds good but is not enough so that today it is being threatened not only with the future of these young doctors, young scientists, the educational system collapses, at the university and scientific production simply dies away, it is becoming less and less, so the consequences of scientific activity are actually catastrophic and the only outcome that Croatia has and this will all mention in its reports is competitiveness and competitiveness without innovation, without science simply there is no. In other words, we ourselves cut the branch on which we sit, or on which we could build a future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70113	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70114	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, I've doubled whether you're doing it or not, but since you've touched my area and singled out one high school as one of the most quality studies in the economy. In addition to all the difficulties that have economic colleges in Croatia and the one in Zagreb, I don't think any high school can compare with the quality of university studies especially of the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb because university studies or higher schools make four of the most important factors, these are programs, teachers, students and institutional conditions. Analyzing programmes, teachers and students and conditions with the Zagreb Faculty of Economics cannot really compare any higher schools because Ljubo Jurčić, Professor Lovrinović, Professor Jakovčević, Professor Medić and a number of others cannot find a similar quality in higher schools. More is one department at the Faculty of Economics at the University of Zagreb has better quality professors than the entire higher school of any in the Republic of Croatia. And about the students and the quality of the students that we're not talking about. Statistics show that most of those who cannot enrol in economic colleges are enrolled in high schools of economic or management, some different. That most of those enrolled significantly before and in a higher percentage end up in high school than at the Faculty of Economics. So it's about an economic college about better, better quality, proven better students and having less pass-by than high schools. Knowing each of the teachers at the higher school studies of any higher school of economics study and individual professor at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, he would never allow my child to enroll me in a high school rather than an economic college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70115	Replica reply, Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70116	Thank you. My colleague Maric, I cited this, the Zagreb School of Economics and Management, as an example of her getting that license, or that recognition. Therefore, I see no reason why the Faculty of Economics does not go that way, because Croatia would have a far greater number of recognised schools. On the other hand, as far as I know statistics about ZHM, they don't have practically unemployed and their people, students are also admitted to doctoral studies out there without very successful, and besides, they unlike other colleges, including my students have signed contracts with 40 colleges in the world where their students work based on exchanges. On the other hand, there is this part that you have said, everywhere, I believe in every university or university we have excellent individuals, and probably everywhere we could find a number of people who can measure themselves with world experts and relationships, and that's actually what that drive still works on, not because of the system that is simply atrophy from month to month, or year. And on the other hand, I think it's just too bad that I don't have to say too much to the mind that everything would be better and for that, and that's why we're going with these remarks and criticisms so that this system starts to work in a way that we can all be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70117	Thank you very much. Next is the respected representative Ivan Simunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70118	Ungrateful that we non-scientists assess the work of the National Science Council. It is hardly possible to get a full picture of the work and problems facing Croatian scientists based on 70 pages of the report. That's why I'm going to point out a few little things that have come into my eye. By reading this report, they cannot agree with the proposal to increase the funding for research science. I am fully aware of the difficult economic situation of the Republic of Croatia and the need to save taxpayers' money. Science and research is a very important segment of the start-up of the economy, so it needs to be encouraged and generously financed to make the state progress, not only in scientific but economic terms. Education and science in Croatia should be the basis for creating a better future for this country. We shouldn't be saving in the future. What I cannot agree with is the Council's proposal to introduce for scientists over 65 years of age a number of jobs financed from the state budget. I consider that an inadmissible burden on the budget. For scientists over 65 who show up and prove to be a valuable addition to scientific and educational institutions, we need to find a different solution. The creation of new jobs on the burden of the budget, which is already excessive, must not be taken into account. I support the proposal to allow direct choice in higher callings and other scientists who were not employed in the RS Science System. It is also necessary to allow faster progress of the excellent scientists proposed by the Council. It is of the utmost importance and a project of the return of Croatian scientists to the Republic of Croatia. Good and high - quality scientists usually mean more quality scientists for a while. I do not apply that scientists operating in Croatia are not good, but more heads are always smarter. Scientists who spent part of the working life outside the country have gained experience and knowledge and adopted methods as well as those who work in Croatian companies... may not have. We can gain a lot by applying their experiences. Many of them have great careers. Their return to our homeland has given us an extremely valuable addition to our scientific community. The return of prominent Croatian scientists from abroad as well as the possible arrival of foreign scientists should be encouraged by further investment in science in order to make the work in Croatia as attractive and fruitful as possible. Science consists not only of smart heads but also modern infrastructure, which is why additional investment in infrastructure and modern technology is necessary for the return of scientists to their homeland. Without it, the project "Return of Croatian Scientists" will remain just a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70119	Replica, Zeljko Reiner, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Representative, I was encouraged to report for the word in fact one of your words, or sentence which I think we all need to represent very clearly, which is that quality scientists are not and can never be a burden to the budget and unfortunately what is rarely being passed through your public life in general and trying to impose, unfortunately with quite a few successes, is that science, education, culture is something that spends money, health, something that spends money, something that is a burden on the budget and various other expressions that are used. I think that we all have to say very uniformly not to such an approach because it's quite a certain quality science, quality health, quality education, not that it's not a burden for the budget, but it's something in which the budget is very meaningful, necessary and justified to invest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70121	Dr. Damir Jezek's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70122	Here, just to conclude once again, to conclude that on these constructive, therefore criticism, proposals, on... the Council of Science is precisely in this context that you discussed today on this National Science Council. I'm sorry that, well, I accidentally provoked my colleague Flag to say that and with my saying, maybe I got it wrong, so we wanted to work on pleasure, maybe I should have said so, but obviously we didn't, but I'm glad I provoked him again to hear his constructive criticism which I personally appreciate as a scientist and a colleague. I only appeal to what I said at the beginning that certainly you in the Croatian Parliament take care of the distribution of resources for science for perhaps increased separation, which I know is in a difficult situation, and especially that so far you have said about young people that really, let people try to keep these people because it is ironic that I get a postcard from my colleagues from Berlin, which thanks me for having wonderfully educated a fellow and doctor of science, that he is working with him now, that he is too pleased with him. Here, thank you very much for another time at the hearing. I believe that the new National Council for Science and Higher Educational Technology will work better, better quality, that there will be communication that I absolutely represent, that there have been many of us in this Regulation and that we have asked that many of us do not put ourselves in this procedure that he went into and that there have been wrong moves, but unfortunately there is not one member of the National Council, there are more of us, we have tried to meet the needs of science. Obviously, the conditions in which we worked may not have been the most adequate, but it doesn't justify us and I fully take responsibility for what I failed as an individual in that National Council to fight for many of your proposals that I've heard today, and believe me, I stand behind them. Here, thank you very much one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70123	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. And now, colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to welcome the members of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia who are staying for a working visit to the Croatian Parliament. I wish them a successful stay at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70124	Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was passed by 80 votes to 28 against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70125	We will now discuss - The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2012 You received the Material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received his report at the session. On behalf of the promoter, President of the Management Board of Academics Dario Vretenar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70126	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished members of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Foundation for Science was founded by the Croatian Assembly of Special Law 2001. The foundation is based on a fundamental purpose of developing and promoting science, technological development in the Republic of Croatia, and with the ultimate aim of ensuring sustainable social and economic development. In order to achieve its purpose, the Foundation provides support for scientific programmes and projects, and support is provided through competitions for focused programmes. In order to ensure the selection and financing of the best projects, the Foundation has developed a professional process of competitive evaluation of project proposals. The evaluation process is based on a recognised practice of historical evaluation involving international experts and evaluation panel involving Croatian experts. According to this trust, it is fully comparable to other European state funds. In February 2012, the foundation also marked 10 years of its draft, where it also addressed the President of the Croatian Parliament to the appropriate speeches of the gathered guests. For the past 10 years, the existence of the foundation has also been marked by the presentation of the Foundation's contribution to the system of higher education and science in the last 10 years, which is best discussed by the 400 projects worth 65 million kuna approved by the Management Board for financing. In 2012 a transformation of the Croatian Foundation for Science was launched into the central institution for project financing of scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. By 2013, scientific projects were funded by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the foundation will continue to implement it. This is about EU countries moving from state-run management to state-controlled science funding system. The precondition for this transformation was the adoption of amendments to the Law on the Croatian Science Foundation, which took effect in July 2012. In order to start with the completion of this task and the preparation of the new tender cycle, the law provided for the opening of a public tender for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Foundation, which was achieved in mid-2013. In 2011 and 2012, the Foundation's Management Board launched two new programmes, research projects and the Suradic Research Programmes. The main objective of these programmes was to promote the critical mass of research groups in the Republic of Croatia that would be competitive at international level, with the difference that research projects are intended for the head of a research group, and co-operation research programmes to groups of at least three research groups that work together most often on an interdisciplinary research topic. The new competition in 2012 was not opened due to the law of a certain end of the mandate of the scientific committees of the foundation in which the procedure for the evaluation of the project proposals was rested, and it was not possible to organise an evaluation for new tenders and other newspapers based on amendments and additions to the Foundation Act but the expected changes of members of the Management Board. The two programmes singled out excellent scientific projects and programmes that received a recommendation for funding in an extremely competitive evaluation process. All projects assessed by international evaluations have started funding in 2012. In 2012, the foundation managed 155 projects totalling 62 million 429 thousand kuna. The projects are implemented under the Programme of Research Projects, the Cooperation Research Programmes, the Partnership in Research, the Constitutional Support, the Scholarships for PhDs, Posdoc., the Construction of Croatian Professional Titles, Gost, Eurocores, International Co-operation Meetings, National Courses and Summer Schools to PhDs, European Social Research, Returns and Research Networking Programmes of the European Science Foundation. The report provides detailed insight into the allocation of funds and the number of funded projects by programmes as well as the full list of funded projects of their managers and the amount of the project financed. The report described the objectives of the tender for the foundation opened in 2012. In order to continue its integration into relevant European environments, and to allow the transfer of scientific policies to its work, the Foundation has actively monitored and participated in the membership of the European Science Foundation, the European Science Foundation. Two important initiatives were launched in 2012. Getting recognition of HR... and membership in Science European. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2012, the Foundation launched internal analyses that included analysis of procedures and documents as well as a survey with all project leaders and evaluators with the aim of drawing up the Action Plan and the Strategy for Human Resources Development. The action plan and the strategy were drawn up by the end of 2012 and are attached in this report. The documents were submitted to the European Commission which evaluated them and in May 2013 granted the Foundation the right to use HR Excellence in Research. In this way, the Foundation has joined institutions applying equal rights and obligations to researchers throughout Europe in a way that clearly determines the roles, responsibilities, merits of researchers on the one hand and employers and institutions financed by scientific research on the other. The application of the principle of the Charter and the Code guarantees an increase in research career status and working conditions for European researchers, which makes it possible to employ young researchers with attractive and foreign scientists. The report also listed a number of other international activities of the foundation in 2012. The total assets of the foundation on 31 December 2012 amounted to 65 million 827 thousand 709 kuna of which 379 thousand kuna refer to non-financial assets of the trust, i.e. long-term assets and 65 million 448 thousand kuna on the financial assets of the trust. In 2012, the Foundation received 1 payment from the state budget amounting to 10 million kuna, while the income from interest on the deposited deposits amounted to 3 million378 thousand kuna. As mentioned above, the expenditure of the foundation in 2012 amounts to 17 million 606 thousand kuna, made up of expenditure on workers of a million 956 thousand 979 kuna, material expenditures of 15 million kuna, depreciation expenditures of 151,000 kuna, financial expenditures of 47 thousand 454 kuna and other expenditures and taxes of 915 kuna. In addition to the above, the Foundation has a share capital of 10 million kuna, which it must not spend as well as previously mentioned contractual obligations. The largest share of the material expenditure, and the highest cost of the Foundation's operations, is the financing of scientific projects and programmes, which is understandable since it is the core activity of the Foundation. Finally, I would like to point out the recommendation of the board of directors in the third meeting, chaired by academician Ivica Kostovic, who is the signator of this report. In view of the interest, needs and possibilities of Croatian scientists, we believe that the percentage of acceptance of project proposals for all scientific areas in competitions which, by competitive principle, allow significant funding, should be between 30% and 40%. Only increased investment in science can Croatia retain the research potential, continuity in research and ensure the competitiveness and development of science and education and the economy and society in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70127	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice-President of the House Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70128	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Academyman Wrettenar, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike a previous report our club will not support, this report will support. This report is an example of how the report should look and an example of the functioning of an institution as it should function. In fact, although I must say that I am also sorry that today in February we are discussing the 2012 report, which, of course, is in itself somewhat declassified, yet the difference between these two reports, the one before and this is important in truth. In 2012 in which the foundation celebrated to say so on its 10th anniversary, it managed to complete the first cycle of those in order to say the major national scientific projects launched by the Management Board in 2011. It should be noted that the role of the foundation was different in those years than it is today. At that time, it was very simplified for some of you who were not so much into that theme, the foundation had funds that were primarily intended for so-called. big projects, infrastructure projects, so to speak of projects and those projects that required larger amounts of money to ensure infrastructure common to more scientists. In contrast, its role is now quite different because, following the laws of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, there has been a change in the way of funding science in Croatia at all, so the ministry will no longer call competitions for scientific projects, as it has been for decades, once being done by the USIZs and then the SIZs and the Ministry, etc., will now be made exclusively by the foundation. So the role of the foundation is different today and we will obviously hear about it in the 2013 report and on a beautiful day for 2014 as well. However, returning to this 2012 report, I need two aspects to be highlighted which are very important to me, which is that the evaluation of these major projects is a clear criterion that the quality assessment must be transparent, the evaluation criteria must be clear in every element of the evaluation process and this is indeed and implemented. It is commendable that these tenders had built-in mechanisms to promote cooperation with the economy or other scientific institutions. This cooperation with the economy, unfortunately, has not yet been far enough achieved at the level at which we would like to do so and, in fact, for all of us, it is up to us to ask ourselves why. Is the only answer that our economy is in a catastrophic state, so it doesn't really have the resources, and unfortunately it doesn't rarely recognize its interest to invest in science, and then eventually, later, it does some benefit. These are all questions, of course, that require much more detailed thinking and that must surely be talked about much more than we do. The fact is that the scientific committees of the foundation on which the system was rested in 2011 and 2012, the evaluation system, were abolished by the amendments to the law and, consequently, the Management Board in 2012 to which the report was unable to call new tenders because it was not able to organise any evaluations for the submissions of the project proposals. And then he initiated one procedure based on the results of the already implemented evaluation of project proposals that entered this final evaluation round to select several of the most qualitative and to continue on this path. I would especially point out as one of the qualities of achievement, so the Croatian Foundation for Science in 2012, participation in international bodies from the European Science Foundation to Science Europe, which is a achievement which is too little, I would say recognized in our public, and also in the scientific public, let alone the general public, because it is one of many rare areas where we have managed to impose ourselves and be recognized by top European institutions by its quality. Getting recognition of the High Excellency in resources as internationally recognised marks for recognizable and recognised procedures and principles carried out by institutions that have obtained the right to use this logo is also something that is not sufficiently publicized, I repeat, in the scientific public, let alone the general public, and it is quite safe to praise. Not wanting to actually talk longer about a single report that we absolutely accept. I'd just like to point out two more things. One is that we must certainly hear well and have an ear for what the academic Vretenar said in his final sentence, and what is written in the last sentence of this report, which is that I should simply put more into Croatian science. It's something that I repeat already by not knowing which times we always talk and we all agree when we discuss some points of the agenda that concern science. But then when the budget comes to our discussion, suddenly we have a complete amnesia and all that we've talked about and advocated with the soul and body to improve science, better funding of science, swearing to it as I've said more than once that only science can get us out of this catastrophic economic and social position, then suddenly somewhere it's gone, and it usually remains very little. However, it should be pointed out that at this point, which is the same is only a painfully conscious scientific community, and unfortunately the wider community does not. At this point, I'm getting the circumstances I've been talking about before and there's no funding for scientific projects, and it's not going to be my assessment until at least mid-this year. Taking into account the procedure that needs to be done, it is colleagues and colleagues so far unseen in Croatia's recent history. Since I've been working in science, and unfortunately it's been a little longer than that, it's never happened that there's no funding for scientific projects for 9 or 10 months. Never in the most difficult times, not in the crises, not in the war, it didn't happen, and now it happens. We now have a situation where the Foundation called when it could and was allowed to call a project competition. With circumstances, of course, this takes time and the evaluation takes time and international reviews are ongoing. They're somewhere near the end as far as I know, but the procedure of course of evaluation is as it should be. And then I repeat and repeat, I don't know how many times in this country for the first time, but since I've been in science, we have a period, a great period of time, and which scientific projects have not been funded at all. No one has asked a public question of responsibility for this and, as with the previous point, the appropriate person does not sit here. He's not an academic vertebrate man who'll answer that. There's no one here who's supposed to answer for it and answer for it. I hope one day that moment will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70129	On behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70130	Madam Vice President, Mr. Wreternar, colleagues and colleagues. So here, after 10 years of the existence of this Foundation, it can be said that this Foundation has not achieved its initial purpose, i.e. the intended purpose, which is that the separations from the state budget were a fundamental idea of creating a single stock that would allow the Foundation to have its own funds from which it has annual funding somewhere in the amount of about 100 million kuna, stable funding of scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. That didn't happen. The foundation does not have this, there are left initial initial funds from 2002 and 2003 that are absolutely insufficient to create such a range of science funding in the Republic of Croatia of 100 million kunas per year. If, therefore, the source of funding is only interest from deposits, that amount should be approximately 2 billion kunas, and with 57 million kunas of interest for this year are in 2012 which we are talking about 3 million kunas and absolutely insufficient to finance science and, of course, for the significant impact of this Foundation on scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. There are, of course, different concepts that science in the Republic of Croatia should be financed. This Foundation is only one option, but it would be good if each government and every administration had done something to make one such institution that is actually when financially left alone and strengthened in some way a guarantee that it would be independent of political processes, of impact on the budget, of the finance policy of ministers and ministries and unfortunately it did not happen. In 2006, 2007, 2008, 2011, the Foundation was funded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a budget of 0 kuna. In 2005, 2009, the financing of this foundation from the state budget was 1-2 million kuna and absolutely insufficient for some stable, continuous, scientific drive and especially insufficient to accumulate funds for only sufficient and independent funding of this trust in perspective, which was an idea when the foundation was founded. And if you look at the financial reports of course in those years when there was such a thin funding there couldn't be any scientific projects. A fund that cannot plan and finance long-term scientific projects cannot, of course, work quality. It cannot set up mechanisms that would then be supported and implemented through these financial means since it did not happen, and I do not know what Mr. Reiner's role was in those years as regards the work of this trust but I will repeat in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 11 per 0 kuna from the state budget only spent the funds that have been accumulated from interest, from deposits that were paid in 2002, 2003 and 2005, 2009, 2010 so a million to two million kunas as far as can be seen from the diagram absolutely insufficient for the development of any projects and its contents and its content therefore and form and content seem to be saying that the foundation in that year is a very minimally limited project, so this foundation, with all the good management in which I agree with my colleague Reiner, therefore, and this trust and this report and its content, therefore, and its content, and its content, therefore, is said that the foundation in this year, is also very well managed projects, which are also costable for the money. It is good that there is the possibility of free research without the return of money, but especially those projects that are applied to science and which can stimulate the growth of the economy are welcome as is also the law on the establishment of this foundation. So the foundation also has this as one of its objectives, which are highlighted in the Law that this Foundation was established. The fact that less than 10% of the projects were accepted because of the lack of funding in 2011, and which were of a quality and then they replaced those projects with the fact that the abolished scientific councils that were no longer able to call out projects were actually talking about the impact of this trust and its possibilities in fact given these small financial resources and the changing policies of the Government when its impact was actually minor to this foundation. If she is well placed and it seems to me that it is a shame, because that potential that this foundation has is actually not being exploited, and of course it would be best to come to her financial self-sufficiency and independence about any policy. Of course, this does not exclude the control of the work of the foundation through the competent ministry and through the Croatian Parliament. It is important here for the perspective of what this foundation will do but it is also that it has joined the European Charter of Employment and the Code of Employment of Researchers which will seem to make its work even more quality and will bring it to the level of work of such institutions, which will, of course, allow our scientists to go to European research institutes and organisations as well as the arrival of potential other foreign researchers in Croatia, through this foundation and through the model of funding and respect for these charters and codes that will in some way extend throughout the Croatian and research and scientific space through the operation of this foundation. But none of this will happen if the foundation is left to itself, if one year there is a million to two, one year there are three million, if some administration and some government and some minister don't even pay a kuna to the budget of that trust, then all those potentials that this trust holds will always be untapped and it will always be the subject of some relationships, some policies, some visions, some conflicts, some of which I don't know what it will not be good about. Therefore, of course, given what was done in 2012 is significantly better than what was done before, the report seems very correct. The foundations of the foundation in the organisational sense seem to me set very high quality. The club of HNS representatives will support this report but until a single policy is created according to this foundation without, of course, speaking to a much wider scientific research complex in the Republic of Croatia than this foundation, and even of these scientific research will not actually be as useful, gains as we keep saying that the Republic of Croatia should have from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70131	Thank you very much. Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Reverend Rados, first of all, you wanted to know if I had anything to do with the foundation, I didn't, I had absolutely nothing to do with the establishment, I didn't have anything to do with the work, I didn't have anything to do with it right now. It's for your notice. But of course, while commending the work of the foundation you tried to actually point out that as at first she was getting more funding then as years probably alluding to that age in which HDZ led the government most of the time did not get, she was getting something, but significantly less, but then in 2012, there was something again. But I understand that you're not so much in scientific trouble, so I'm going to point out once again what I said on behalf of the club, and that's the fact that the original foundation was different from what she's doing today. It was intended to have funds exclusively for several major projects, i.e. infrastructure scientific for these several projects, while all other projects in the Republic of Croatia were financed by the call for tenders from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and therefore, the ministry financed most of the scientific research. Now it's changed, now all the research, all the projects will go through the foundation for which she's obviously got more money, but not from as far as the ministry once financed science, and of course these big projects are only now very questionable whether she'll have enough money because now the total amount of money, if the previous years were summed up by the ministry and what she had a foundation compared to now, today the funds are significantly less. And that is true, therefore, regardless of who was in power, who was not in power, at this time there will be less funding of science than what it was in previous years, including years when the government led both the SDP and the year when the government led the HDZ. At this point, unfortunately for science, there will be a lot less money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70133	Thank you. Thank you very much. The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70134	Comrade Reiner, I didn't even think that you had any formal connections with the foundation, but you are a very prominent HDZ member, HDZ was at that time in power, you are a former minister, so very influential, I just voiced hope that at that time, regardless of the results that are very thin here, you have fought as bitterly for science as you are now. That's what I've expressed that hope for, and I hope that's affirmative of your actions. As for the concept of the foundation's work, it can be big and small projects. The problem is that in those years we're talking about, there were neither big nor small. That's the problem. So it's not a labour concept problem, some smaller projects from other funds could be financed, but in those years at least there were no large or small projects in the report on the work of this foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70135	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Radosh, I think you've noticed exactly one important thing that is actually essential, perhaps not in this debate, but when we changed the Foundation Act... how it is, and that's the role of the Science Foundation. So, as counterpart Reiner said before, before the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports either that which funded science, on the other hand you had a Science Foundation that funded some projects, so you had some parallel systems. According to those legal decisions we have now, it will be a foundation, so it will be exclusively her job and will receive more funding accordingly. So, should this be a foundation, I would agree with you in that sense when you spoke about several ways of funding that the outcome should be, that the foundation should be more independent than the policy, or that it should be an expert body that, in accordance with expert assessments, allocates public funds to scientific projects. However, you have, as I say, the dark side of this approach, and an example to you is our National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which is instead of making money more placed in the development of this same civil society, that money accumulated in different deposits, in real estates, etc. So you ask a question to a system like this, how long can this accumulation of funds go? So that foundation mentioned now has more resources, but it continues to accumulate instead of placing them in what was the original intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70137	Iron Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70138	Of course, it is less important that the foundation was launched by Minister Hrvoje Kraljević, I continued as much as I could, but it is much more important that unfortunately the foundation functioned on the basis of these fundamental plantings, i.e. the money it received, and later remained dry. In this respect, it could not fully fulfil its function, and the function was, as Vice President Reiner said, to finance extraordinary, excellent, large projects of national and international importance. It failed to do so on the one hand because it had no money, on the other hand failed to carry out because part of the foundation's policy was superficial because instead of the foundation financing those projects that would be exceptional, the foundation financed the regular activities of the ministry. The preparation of the mountain process, evaluation seminars and so on also spent one part of the giving. That's not the case anymore, I hope it won't be the case anymore. And I want both my colleagues Wretenara and his associates and his associates all the best and that the sooner we have a new generation of projects. I hope you've defined the criteria, and whenever you think the Assembly Committee can help you with something, please come to us. One of my colleagues, Radoš, with open items, which, as far as I know, has not been solved, can be quite painful. It's a relationship between the so-called. institutional scientific research activities and individual activities. The Trust should be financed individually, it is not clear what the ratio between institutional and individual and it is not clear whether the Ministry will go further, almost directly manage institutional science, and the Foundation will deal with individual or there will be some sort of slop, so I plead on all of you to think about it and to find an optimal solution in future legislation in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70139	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70140	Comrade Flego, what you said about the foundation not being run like it was meant to be, is that nothing can be expected. Is if the foundation was designed to run extraordinary projects and not directly related to this scientific policy, and especially not the extended hand of the Ministry of Education and Science, which it was, then there can be no success. It's something that's completely wrong. Of course, you know a lot more about it, and fellow Reiner knows a lot more about it than I do. The two segments must certainly be defined. If this foundation were financially independent, of course in some way supervised if not so directly from the Ministry of Education, Science, then certainly from the Croatian Assembly, it would be one of the strengths of excellence from which the Republic of Croatia would benefit greatly both internationally and in terms of its scientific policy of research development, and the official science support policy could be developed through the Ministry's programme. I don't know what's going to happen in the future but certainly the solution in which you're building something with a purpose, and then in practice, it does something completely different, such a solution can't produce good results. I hope that in some way we will find such a model that we can find a good, fruitful relationship between these two segments of research that you've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70141	And the replica of Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70142	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Radoš, namely a pragmatic question about what can be heard in the towers and in contact with both the citizens and the owners, namely the topics of science, scientific works, academy etc. There is a question about all three points of the agenda that we are working on today by a large unknown government in the information segment. Well, a lot of times both businessmen and citizens ask the science office no one asks the question, and everyone is more or less about investing. However, what is feedback or fitness? Namely, why am I saying that? In particular, one colleague defended the doctoral dissertation and part of his dissertation found application in practice, made certain savings. Unlike another dissertation, in particular "The impact of harmful gases along the highway on the growth of Aleppo pine needles", do they grow in several percentages more or less on photosynthesis, etc. I think that in these scientific circles as well as in the times in which we live, and I see that there is one great role and Foundation for Science and all scientific institutions to try to what extent is possible without ignoring the fundamental importance of scientific institutions to go to the market and to create a certain financial base for further development of the project and development of science. Because they didn't want to admit it's a partial opinion I say to a large number of non-citizens, we give money, and we don't know what. As citizens, what do those who fill the budget come back to us?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70143	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70144	Kola Batinić writes in one part of the report, referring to the overall funding of science in the Republic of Croatia, so not on the work of the foundation says that there are no clear criteria or project funding in the financing of science in the Republic of Croatia and scientific research. It says in this report, this does not refer to those projects financed by the Foundation but to a general assessment of the financing of scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. If there are no clear criteria, then there won't be anything you're talking about. So in my opinion, I also agree with your view that even science in one part must create new profits, it must be in function of life in the function of the economy and in that part must go to market. Of course, complete science cannot be in this direction market-valided basic research, research in social sciences, in humanistic sciences cannot bring some direct visible benefits and financial gains, but in the long run it should create the foundations of both both and third research and species for both material or overall profit of society. Someone also needs to be evaluated, of course when you have the right policy then these research can also be valued as one long-term profit of society. But we are far from it, we are these practical projects that could be applicable, unfortunately, we are not able to evaluate in such a way as what it says here in the 2012 Foundation report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70145	We move on to the individual debate of colleagues Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70146	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Wreternar, colleagues and colleagues. So here's Mr. Wretenar said at the very beginning, and I would like to use it now in the debate because we are only now discussing the 2012 report and Mr. Wretenar and all the users and employees of the foundation to congratulate this jubilee, so 10 years of the foundation. So other than the 10 years of the foundation's operation, the first cycle of major national scientific projects launched only in 2011. So I might be a little attached to my colleague, Radosh, and I would ask a question, what was the point and meaning and vision of the foundation, or we could say that she was just vegetating in some way through this time, if it was the kind of project that had to be launched, and if she had only been able to do so after 10 years of existence. In 2012, we changed the Foundation Act where we introduced some radical changes here I can say radical again, given what my colleague Reiner said, so it has never happened that science in the Republic of Croatia, the modern Republic of Croatia, was financed from another institution rather than from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. However, despite the changes, despite the fact that in 2012, I think it was in the spring if I am not mistaken to change that law, I am glad and what I must commend is certainly that the foundation has found a way to bridge this adjustment period, i.e. that the financing of scientific projects is not completely suspended. So because of procedural legal issues, that is, new legal solutions. Thus, in the transitional phase, the best projects of those projects that entered the final round of evaluations were financed during the last round of competitions, which they did not receive due to the lack of funds, which is why they were not financed. In this way, he ensured continuity that some projects were funded and that they were projects that deserved funding. It was therefore not about the projects that were rejected, or they did not meet the criteria of the competition. I would especially point out that funded projects are recognised as those with great potential to attract funds from EU funds. That's the same thing, I'd dare say, one newspaper and what I think our science will have to strive for in one long-term period, which is to attract funds from other funding channels, not just those of the state. So I am talking first and foremost about private capital, which includes, of course, the market, that is, the economy that finance projects that are important for the market itself or for the economy itself, as well as colleagues Batinić, but also the European Union's funds. So first of all, these are interdisciplinary projects, so those who have the advantage of funding. Interdisciplinaryism is something relatively new in Croatian science, so I believe that by empowering funds and foundations themselves, but also from European funds, this interdisciplinaryism will also result in better results. Just a few more words about interdisciplinaryity. Except in scientific circles she is relatively new or young, I would dare say in the teaching part of high schools so that only since 2005, perhaps a little earlier, she begins to live in the true sense of the word. But we can see that only the higher education market is developing, that it is becoming more and more recognizable and present. All of this is, in fact, in order to begin the transformation of the foundation, from a parallel system of funding science to a central financial institution for Croatian science, i.e. for Croatian science financed by public money. I am also pleased that this report has received consensual support on the committee itself, i.e. all the clubs that have debated and supported it and that it is not there, I believe there are no major concerns. I am also pleased that the representatives of the foundation have also expressed their understanding of the position of humanistic sciences and I believe that their understanding, but I hope that also their sensitivity in a long-term period and the position of humanistic sciences will improve. First of all, allow me to complete this debate with the support of the board of directors in these efforts which are not small, so this is a great job of this transformation of the foundation and that I will be very interested in monitoring this transformation which I hope will be due to both Croatian science and yourself efficient, fast and that we will soon have a functional foundation in terms of funding scientific projects. That is why I can express my personal support for this report once again, and that I will be interested in monitoring the 2013 report when I hope to support it consensually again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70147	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, I agree with everything you've said, I only answered for one little correction. I did not say that this was the first time that the ministry did not finance a significant part of the projects, but unfortunately now it is the first time that no one is funding projects at this time because there was a time-share in which projects were naturally scheduled but the process is going to last and it will continue for several months, and the ministry is no longer financing those old projects. It is in various ways minimal indeed, I dare say embarrassing sums as funded by the end of last year, after which there is nothing. These projects are of course old from the foundation they are large projects and there were only a few, but those projects such as the vast majority, hundreds of projects that were funded at this time have no funding at all. It will be established, of course, when it begins to be refinanced by the foundation a much, much larger number by the new concept, according to the new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70149	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70150	Thank you very much, colleague Reiner. I really didn't mean to misread you. I would actually characterise this as the birth pains of the foundation, that is, moving on to this system. You yourself have mentioned probably, therefore, because of the procedural things that by late spring, or by the start of summer it should all be settled, sit in place and move on with funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70151	And the final word of the President of the Board of Directors of the Academy of Dario Wretenar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70152	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished members of the Croatian Parliament. Let me thank you and thank the Croatian Assembly for the great support provided by the foundation, especially in these last year how long the transformation takes. 0We have indeed taken over although this report is for 2012 it is a period already behind us and we have taken over the management of the foundation since last year indeed at a difficult moment when the foundation was without funds and with vague concepts. We also tried because the ministry announced the termination of the funding of the projects in question, so-called. With the projects we tried to bridge as soon as possible before that period and we started last fall with a new cycle of competition and we believe that it will be, that new funding by the Foundation will start on 1 May with one amount which is about a third of what is common, which was the usual funding for projects in the Republic of Croatia. Also, with the great support we received this year, the Foundation is now in a slightly better position and we think that with this first round of competitions, that what we will be able to do is call another competition, so by the end of the year we might be able to finance about 5 hundred to 6 hundred scientific projects with one still funding that allows normal scientific work. In addition to this plan is also about which I hope to be able to say more about it next year, that again in the system we are beginning to receive young researchers and already, we believe that from 1 June we will be able to discuss a contest that would be received in the system by about two hundred to two hundred 50 doctorates. Also, our objectives are not only to promote and support basic research, our intention is also to launch a cycle of cooperation projects with the aim of strengthening applied research because they are important, they in themselves in countries such as Croatia do not lead directly to innovation, but they make it much easier to transform and accept new knowledge and technology transfer, and therefore they are of great importance. It can only happen if we have cooperation with the economy. We will also try to do so with young researchers, because one of the great reasons why public funds are being spent on research, science is just the development of human potentials, and that's something the Foundation will work on. I thank you again for your support. I hope we have much better news next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70153	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. And now colleagues and colleagues of information about how we're going to work today. The next point of the Network of Public Scientific Organizations in the Republic of Croatia will be to skip this point because we do not have a proposing, and we will not discuss today the Law amending the Law on Theatres because the committee is announced at 13.00 p.m. tomorrow. And today, we're going to be working 21 hours in order as it is in the agenda. Here's my colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70154	I'm asking nicely for an explanation. In fact, I do not understand why because the proposer did not come to remove this item from the agenda, a point proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of this Parliament to withdraw from the procedure, and now even the promoter does not appear here. I don't see why this agony should continue. We, therefore, have proposed that the Committee of this Parliament be unskilled, unquality, etc. It pulls it out of the process. Now even the promoter doesn't show up here, and we're going to keep doing it now, and then I don't know when, suddenly, somewhere in the small hours, we're going to discuss something that I'm stressing for the third time, the Committee of this Parliament has refused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70155	Since you are saying that such a conclusion is that there are no proposings here remains on the agenda and we expect that the Proposer will then act at the conclusion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70156	Annual Report of the Science Foundation for 2012. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The annual report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2012 is accepted." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The lock was adopted with 107 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70157	We will now discuss - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2012 The report is submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office based on articles 129 and 139. Pension Insurance Act. You received the materials by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the report at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the Report will be explained by the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Mr. Srecko Vuković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70158	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Peace insurance is a key element of the social state and social security system in the Republic of Croatia. The number of users of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute of more than 3 million citizens including those active insurance companies, pensioners and child benefits users points to the continued special importance of the Institute for Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore this report on the work of the Institute is always interesting to the general public and a valuable source of information that comes out of the framework of the pension system itself. The report shall contain the usual chapters on the state of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity, the establishment of the Institute, and its human potential and information technology, the work of the Governing Council, financial business and portfolio of the Institute, and of course on the exercise of the right and the work of the professional service with a rich table contribution. the institution is a public institution with public powers in solving pension insurance rights and obligations established by the Pension Insurance Act, which provides mandatory pension insurance based on generation solidarity. Other parts of the pension insurance system, so-called the second and third pillars, i.e. compulsory or voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, are governed by specific laws. A few words about the state of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity at the end of 2012. Mandatory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, shall necessarily ensure age and early, age pension, disability pension, family pension, minimum pension, basic pension, professional rehabilitation, compensation for physical damage and travel expenses in connection with the achievement of security rights and, all together, the basic activity of the core business office. Here's what the numbers looked like was the system of pension insurance of intergenerational solidarity on 31.12.2012. At that time, a million and 217 thousand users and a million and 432 thousand insurance companies were recorded, giving a 1:1,18 ratio. Data speak of continuing the trend in the growth of the number of users of pensions... At a slow rate of 0.37% and a drop in the number of insurance companies by approximately 2.5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Out of the total million and 217 thousand pensioners, 643 thousand were users of retirement pensions, 322 thousand were paid by the disabled and 252 thousand were given to the family. Users of the lowest pensions determined under the Pension Insurance Act were 190 thousand and 902. Out of the total number of pensioners, 1.05 million or 86% made a pension under the general pension insurance rules, which is an increase compared to 2011. At the same time, by 0.5%, the number of persons who made their pension under favourable conditions has been reduced by the prescribed specific laws. After non-coordination of pensions during 2010 and 2011, in 2012 pensions started again regularly towards wage and consumer prices of 50:50, the old-known Swiss formula and total increase in 2012 by 2,06% and, despite the slowdown in the number of pensioners, the share of pension expenditure in GDP increased slightly to 10.82%. In 2012, a total of 47 459 new pensioners, namely 30 thousand 805 old and early age, 3616 disabled and 13 038 family pensions, were made, thus almost 6% compared to 2011. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act in December 2012 was reduced by taxes and taxes amounted to 2184 kuna and its share in the average net salary was 3908%. At the end of 2012, it was 39.17%. The average pension achieved under the Pension Insurance Act without pensions achieved by the application of international contracts for December 2012 amounted to 2405 or almost 44% of the average salary. As the average pension is most often referred to in international publications as the average retirement pension for full-time workers and independent professions. According to this criterion, an old retirement pension with a 40-year retirement period and more on 31 December 2012 averaged 3690 kuna, which is almost 70% of the average salary for December 2012. In other words, if everyone had done a full internship or most of our pensions, then we would have an average of 70% of the average salary, but only 12% of the pensioners of the million and 200 that I was talking about achieved a full-time pension. Statistics show that in 2012 users of old retirement averaged 32 years of retirement and that the average pension rate of all pensioners was 29 years and 7 months and over 15 years increased by only one year. The average duration of those who made their first retirement in 2012 was 30 years and 4 months and for early age 36 years and 11 months. The average retirement age in 2012 was 64 years and 4 months and for 53 years and 11 months. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute shall implement the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. In 2012, the child allowance was used on average by 216 thousand and 110 users who received an allowance for an average of 386 thousand and 516 children. The average supplement for children is 368 kuna per child and 1.7 billion kuna is spent for its financing in 2012. The total revenues and total expenditure of the institute were mostly balanced and amounted to €35.7 billion. Of these revenues, 35.7 billion kuna unfortunately, only 54% of incomes are generated from contributions to pension insurance. In the cost structure, pension and pension costs amounted to 35, nearly two billion kuna and 98,51% respectively, which means that the remaining costs are below 1.5%, which compared to similar services in Europe says that we are relatively not expensive or cheap service in view of the scope of the activities carried out in the office. By signing a contract with the Croatian Post Office, the postal fee for the payment of pensions in 2012 since 1.1.2012 has been reduced from 2,254 to 1,92 and this has led to 18% lower costs for the payment of pensions through mail. The operating costs of the Institute in the past year were 50 million kuna or even 10% lower than in 2011. Staff expenditure has been reduced by as much as 18.5 million kuna and significantly reduced overtime expenditure by 85%. Material expenditures were reduced by 17 million kuna and expenditure for the acquisition of non-financial assets by 13.8 million kuna. The above data show that the appropriations were used rationally and in accordance with the Law, which also confirms the unconditional findings of the State Audit Office for 2012. A few words about the work of the professional service of the office. As part of the implementation of pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity, the Institute was submitted in 2012. 464 thousand and 667 requests, of these child allowance requirements were 261 thousand and 270, so over 50%. Along with the outstanding items from the previous period, in 2012 there were 514 thousand and 606 requests of which 462 thousand and 964 requests were resolved or almost 90%. These jobs were carried out by the office with 4.4% less employees than in 2011, at the end of 2011, at 3139, at the end of 2012. 130 less, 3009, and at the end of 2013, so, a month and a half ago, 2937. So, a continuous reduction in the number of employees. I must point out that the duration of the administrative procedure is particularly affected by the complex procedure of medical art and chronic deficiency and the heavy burden of the experts in the office as well as the departure from the institutions of the very professional people of those qualifications that work directly on the assessment of the work ability. According to the 2012 work programme, a number of projects related to the implementation of the rules governing pension insurance as well as those relating to the improvement and rationalisation of parts of the business process have been completed. As regards matters relating to the implementation of the rules governing the pension insurance system, under the provisions of the Law supplementing the Pensions Supplement Act and the Law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, it is possible to include an allowance to pension pensions for users who have been recognised before 01 January 2012. Other jobs that must certainly be mentioned are related to coordination in the organisation and manner of operations in order to apply the relevant EU rules. As a public institution, the Institute was obliged to train workers to apply EU rules in the field of coordination of pension insurance and child care systems and in the entirely new jobs for the Institute, the determination of the legislation of the Member State applying to migrant workers. Work was also continued on the project of replacing the work book in the Republic of Croatia by electronic means of data management contained in the workbook. Since the date of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, the working book in the previous form has been abolished, it was necessary to access and then ensure that the electronic data kept in the workbook has been electronically kept, and since the date of accession of the EU institution leads and ensures the exchange of data and the issue of a certificate based on the insurance status records. The introduction of an e-workbook actually fits into a already defined strategy of an office aimed at making better use of the potential of e-commerce through intensive promotion of already existing e-services, i.e. further development of new services whose introduction into business is planned through the next period as part of the project of building information communication infrastructure for the electronic operation of the Institute. Electronic business speeds up processes and reduces business costs and contributes to the satisfaction of users of services, and the potential of this business in Croatia is not used enough, especially in the field of public services. For a number of years, the Institute shall exchange data with a number of state and public institutions in order to make business processes more efficient and to reduce business costs. Trend increases in the number of data exchange institutions continued in 2012 so that the Institute is currently carrying out over 80 data exchanges with FINA, REGOS, Tax Administration, Employment Office, Health Insurance, Business Banks, etc. During 2012, a web service was developed with which the Institute became the first institution to enter the OIB system. In 2012, the Institute signed a protocol on business and technical cooperation with the Tax Administration and was interactively connected to the OIB service, which significantly speeds up the exchange of information between related institutions. And a few words about what's waiting for us in the future. In the last few years, the Institute’s restructuring projects have been funded by loans from the World Bank and state budget, aimed at improving certain processes and technologies of work, and a small part of changing the structure of employees through the World Bank’s stimulating severance and funds, but this has not completed the full restructuring of the institute. Therefore, in cooperation with the RES, a document has been drawn up in the Office, defining the objectives and established plan of activities for the implementation and completion of the overall operational and organisational restructuring period from 2013 to 2016. Also a big and important job ahead of us is the implementation of the new Pension Insurance Act, which entered into force on January 1st this year. This is about important procedures in our IT bases and organizational changes. There are also complex and demanding jobs related to the introduction of a JOPPD form with a centralized salary account as well as the tasks of updating our bases, by registering a personal identification number for those users for which it has not yet been obtained. According to the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act in the Institute, a medical skills centre is established which is the first step in the process of establishing and setting up a single body of art in Croatia for the purposes of all the systems in which it is implemented, and which will ultimately mean the separation of this activity, i.e. medical skills in the process of exercising the rights of the institution itself. As a public service to citizens as part of the eGovernment strategy, the Institute intends to turn fully to employers, insurance and users by identifying and adapting its business to their needs. In this area, a new legislative framework for the e-application for pension insurance is particularly important, under which e-applications have been received through a new system since 01 January 2014, and bonds with more than 3 insurance companies are obliged to submit their applications by electronic means. The Institute is also one of the first institutions to be implemented in the state system of NIAS, and the system of electronic document management during this year will be introduced into all the regional establishment units of the Institute which we believe will speed up and work on the processing of new solutions and increase the success of our work. In the context of a new public relations strategy, it is intensively working on setting up a customer service with an invitation, a permanent support centre for all users and all business processes that are exposed to direct contact and services aimed at insurance, employers and rights users. In the next period, our priorities are also also related to strengthening our capacities and education of our staff to implement EU rules in the area of determining competent legislation, family giving and pensions as our permanent task under the conditions of Croatia's membership in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70159	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And gentlemen of HZMO. I would ask, and based on the principle of solidarity that you were talking about, where did this report go from the items that were written and which were conducted under non-infringing pensions? And that item was from year to year from 100 million to 120 million kuna. So in this report, I don't find such an item, so I wonder if HZMO solved it by legal means and if it was solved through that move by some 50,000 that didn't send the OIB, etc. or what happened to non-retired pensions that HZMO, through the solidarity of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and contributions, paid to those whose pensions and children's allowances do not actually belong to some? Some died 10 years ago some 5 years ago but the pension was paid at about 100 to 120 million kunas a year for these 20 years of Croatian state existence. So you count 20 times 100 million kuna that's over 2 billion kuna. So here's a chance for you to tell me where I am right now, I've been reading this material I can't find that item anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70161	Reply to replica Srecko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70162	Well, thanks for asking. So as far as I can remember, I hope I'm not wrong, that number or that item wasn't part of a report earlier years, so it's not in this either. I think there was once an answer to the parliamentary question after, so we can do it this time after the parliamentary debate. There are no non-repayments missing, the problem of non-refundable payments due to the late determination of the fact of death is the problem that all countries know and most developed of Germany, Japan, so unfortunately it is also Croatia. Of course, that's not the answer. I have to say that indeed from year to year, that amount is shrinking, especially we affect it the moment we entered what I said in the OIB system where we are practically in real time getting a notice of death that we didn't have until then, but at a few days or months, even delays came to us about death if the party didn't report. However, the possibility is now reduced or cancelled practically is that all those in the OIB system are immediately notified to our system and are suspended from payment and are notified to the banks. That's why we suspended all those pensions in October 10th, so in November of last year, there are no OIBs. These were 2800 in the Republic of Croatia and 48 thousand abroad, so almost over a third actually we didn't have a personal number, we couldn't get it automatically through the OIB system, because these people generally didn't have a personal number assigned to the Republic of Croatia, we stopped those payments. Now the state is therefore in order to further sharpen the discipline in the system now is the state we have another 708 persons in Croatia who do not have an OIB at this time and for them have been continuously suspended payments from October to today. The list of persons suspected of misrepresenting residence and exploiting the Republic of Croatia or falsely receiving pensions was delivered to the Ministry and as far as I know, they're combing that list, and the number of those from abroad has been reduced to 19 thousand, so from 40 to 19, and here we've cut more than half. We have little problem with people here, Bosnia, Serbia who do not deliver proper documents to the IRS, so it does not open HZMO OIB, but the IRS. The documentation must be very precise under the IRS rule but we have opened all possible our numbers, emails for the parties that via us... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70163	Thank you very much. You have 2 minutes to respond, but you can contact your colleague Vukovic during the debate and then you have 5 minutes to answer those questions. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Director, in this part of the report, although that's what it is for 2012 and in the end it is at all question whether in these turbulent times when talking about pension funds in one different way makes sense to discuss this report and waste time, but here in the report it is visible that the value of the portfolio has been reduced by around 245 million compared to 31.12.2011. Well, I don't think that's very well explained here to see that reduction. It is the money of Croatian citizens, we all expect that we will get a pension, and we don't care if that money decreases instead of increasing, so one question is imposed. Is it possible that setting up political managers in a company where funds have their share resulted in this kind of loss of part of the money? It's 245 million kuna cuts, it's not a very small amount of money. So please one little clarification in that part further. And you also mentioned yourself what is waiting for us in the future period, so I think we are all interested in what is waiting for us in the future period, which are the creations of creative people who are now trying to make some spins with pension funds, money from Croatian citizens, so here's what you have to know about us a little bit and I'm saying, it's much better to discuss this than it was a year ago and a few days ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70165	Thank you very much, but that's not the agenda point. Replication response, Srecko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70166	Thank you very much. As for this section, which fell to the value of 245 million as stated in the report, this part of the portfolio of the office is managed by and lords by law at the time, so it was mastered by AUDIO, so the Agency for the Management and Management of Assets, so fully HZMO has no influence nor can it influence the law on the direct management of those shares. As for the part that remained, the small part but the valuable part that remained in the management not in the institution itself but in the Croatian Pension Investment Company in the form of a capital fund, that part in 2012, the value is therefore 1,016 billion kuna, the gross profit achieved is 16.34 million kuna, net 15.46 million, and the value of the fund's assets increased by 61.8 million or 6.5%. So in this part of which we have somehow managed, but which we must recognize are the best-quality shares that have been left, that part is growing profits. In this section, the question may need to be referred to AUDIO, or to its follower.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70167	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First we'll hear the representatives of the clubs. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Grubisic and Cain were reported. They're not present, they're losing the right to debate, the club is losing the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP club colleague Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70168	Dear vice president, director with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the 2012 Employment and Business Report of the Pension Insurance Institute. The subject of this report is compulsory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and the work of HZMO. In 2012, there was a continued trend in the growth of the number of pensioners and the decline of the number of insurance companies, so a million 217 million users and 1,432 million insurance companies were recorded in the office so that the ratio between the two groups was 1:1,18 which is the lowest recorded ratio of the number of pensioners and insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia. After a major drop in the number of insurance companies in the 1990s due to the reform of pension insurance Generational solidarity from January 1st 1999 and economic growth, the number of insurance companies continued to increase from 2001 to 2008. But the economic crisis in the second half of 2008 began to reduce the number of insurance companies. The exception is seasonal employment in the summer, and that trend has been present for the last four years. Despite the reform, the number of pensioners continued to increase after 1999, with an average of 1% to 2% a year, however somewhat slower than in the previous decade. The last two years have slowed down the number of pensioners. In 2012, a total of 47459 pensioners, 30805 old and early age, 3616 disabled and 13038 family pensions were made, down 5.94% compared to 2011. As a result of an increase in age for retirement and older lifespans of insurance workers, the number of disability pensions has gradually increased since 2000. The number is also affected by social reasons and unemployment, as well as the fact that disability pensions are more favourable than early retirement pensions. This trend was halted in 2009 when the inflow of disabled pensioners began to decrease, especially in 2012, when the number of new disabled pensioners was reduced to 3616. The 2007 example was 10987 new users, 2008. 13317 and 2012 3616. The average retirement pension rate is 32 years old, the beneficiary of an early retirement pension 35, the disabled pensioner of 23 years, family pensions 29 years, and the average retirement pension rate of all pensioners is 29. The proportion of pensioners with an completed 40-year retirement period and higher in the total number of pensioners increased slightly and stood at 12.36%. The total revenues of the institute amounted to €35,700 billion, with expenditures of €35,731 billion. From that 35,197 and some small billions of kuna were paid for pensions and pension incomes. The costs of the professional service business, which are expenses for employees and material expenditure, are in the planned frameworks. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2012 was reduced by taxes and taxes was 2184.15 kuna, while the share of the pension in the average net salary was 39.81%. But as we have heard, the retirement pension determined on the basis of a 40-year-old pension rate is an average of 3960.79 kuna, i.e. 69.72% of the average net salary. The Institute shall also carry out the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. In 2012, child allowance was used by an average of 206110 users for an average of 386516 thousand children. The child's allowance was an average of 368.41 kuna per child and a total of $1,709 billion was spent on financing it. There are 4.4% less employees in the Institute than in 2011. So, from 3139 to 3009. The number of employees was reduced due to the retirement workers' departure, and the contractual termination of the labour contract. Employment of new workers was approved only after all possibilities of redistributing jobs to the existing frame were exploited, so only 8 staff were employed. Since the total number of workers is much more employed than 51 years of life than those up to 30 years of age. This confirms the fact of the shift in age structure, professional service towards older age. 14.76% is between 45 and 50 years old. 18.94% between 50 and 55 years, 16.32% between 55 and 60 years, and 7.94% above 60 years of life. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, in collaboration with the Croatian Employment Service, launched the implementation of training measures for work without the establishment of a working relationship during 2012. The aim of that measure is to enable young, unemployed persons through one-year vocational training, thus obtaining a working experience or passing a state-run expert examination at the Ministry of Administration. In the Institute there were 83 students of the first and second levels of higher education. The demographic ageing of the population in the long term will have an adverse impact on the ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners and on the financial situation in pension insurance of intergenerational solidarity. In the coming years, a slowdown in expenditure growth is expected, given that by 2030, the conditions for age and early retirement for women and men are gradually balanced, and that the way in which pensions are determined encourages longer stay in the world of work and later retirement. The growth of expenditure is also slowed down by the gradual reduction in the number of beneficiaries of the rights granted under the rules no longer applicable under the Pension Insurance Act. Body damage caused by illness or injury, supplemental for other people's assistance and care, disability insurance benefits, minimum pensions and a retirement allowance or are realised as second on average with lower rights. The 2012 Work Programme of the Institute has planned activities related to the implementation of pension insurance and child allowances, the resolution of insurance rights, improvement of work and business of the Institute, legal affairs and normative activities, human resources and human resources, economic and financial management, management and management of assets, financial management and control, the information system, the public work and cooperation of the Institute with state administration bodies, institutions and other institutions. All key planned jobs have been done with the planned dynamics and set deadlines. Due to the above mentioned SDP club will be supported by the 2012 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70169	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70170	Yeah, here's a little bit. Well, I'd look back, you said there was a slow rise in the number of pensioners and you mentioned this latest index in the report, which is the number of insurance and pensioners. However, the latest data suggest that this ratio has deteriorated and is now 1.16. There has also been a slow rise in the number of pensioners, but on the other hand, the number of employees is still increasing, and in fact this relationship is getting worse over these years and compared to the data in the Report is even worse today than it was in the 2012 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70171	Replication response, Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70172	Thank you. My colleague, I know these figures, but this is the 2012 report, and so all the figures that I've been putting out refer to in 2012. When the 2013 Report is finished, we will talk about it, and in this part I can agree with you in part. Yes, as long as we don't raise the unemployment rate and the majority of employees, of course, and in this segment we won't be able to be fully satisfied. But let us not forget that, unfortunately, because of what happened in the 1990 ’ s, it is a sudden thing to do with our will, but not to our very part of the pensioners that has been significantly increased, and this is the day we are still suffering these consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70173	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70174	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, MPs and MPs. Yes, and this report as well as some other reports come in relatively late, but we also feel that we simply can't look back at the club. There could have been a 2011 Report here, but the problems of Croatian pensioners persist today in February 2014. The problems of the pension system are also present today 2014. People have received their last pension now in February for January 2014 and the accounts are also paying at this time for January 2014 and they don't care if we in the Croatian Parliament are going to discuss the 2012 report, 2011 or '99. The fact is that the problem of the pensioners today is one of the bigger problems that Croatian society faces and these same pensioners, it is the same Croatian society as they ask us to answer the question of how we will finally resolve the issue of increasing employment, opening jobs, leaving the economic recession and Croatian pensioners asking us for an answer in which way we will finally help Croatian pensioners that the conditions of actually life that are harder today than it was last year or before last year, a life that was more expensive than it was last year, in which way we as a Croatian Parliament, as a Croatian Government, as the Ministry of Pension Insurance, as the Ministry of Labour simply respond to their existent problems. That answer is either we have, or we don't, or we can agree on it or we can't agree. Certainly, that response significantly crosses the frameworks of this report today, and that is why I will, in part, talk about the width of this problem rather than just the statistical data provided in the report. However, the basic model, therefore the model on which our pension system rests, may be worth mentioning that it is difficult in the state budget for nearly 36 billion kuna and amounts to around 11% of the total Croatian GDP, the Croatian budget. The report also states that the average pension is moving at around 2200 kuna means about 40% of the average salary. I think that this relationship has not changed more significantly than in 2013, in early 2014, I think that the ratio has remained somewhere, so today the average pension is slightly less than 2200 kuna and is moving around 40% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia, if it still stands at around 5600 kuna today. When it comes to the ratio of pensioners, the number of employees and pensioners may be there and there is one structural problem actually which Croatian society has. So, the Croatian state was created or at the time of the Croatian state's formation in the Republic of Croatia we had employed about 2 million people. According to data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's website, we currently have a million and 400 thousand employees in the Republic of Croatia. At the time of the Croatian state's retirement, there were 655 thousand people if I didn't make mistakes in the 1990s. At this point, according to data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's website, there are millions and 200 thousand people. The index of the number of persons employed and retired who was 3.0 at the time of the Croatian state's creation is 1,166 today. When did this dramatic fall in the ratio of the number of employees and pensioners occur? Practically, the whole drama took place by the age of 99. So by the age of 99, the ratio of the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners in Croatia fell to 1.38. So, by the age of 99, the total Croatian economy, resulting from the war, resulting from privatisation, resulting from irresponsible state leadership, has collapsed, the Croatian pension system has de facto collapsed and since then, this index has still moved by 0.3 pardon 0.2. 0.2. 0.2. No government since that year 2000, until today 2014, has been ready to look these facts in the eye and try to design a realistic implementation of Croatia's social sustainable recovery plan. That development-oriented plan was only partially improved during the 2005-2008 conjuncture for several index points very low and then by coming back, but this was purely on the wings of practically general growth in the EU, high borrowing, road construction and favourable economic opportunities, and after that the coming recession continued to collapse. That collapse didn't stop today, and it lasts every minute of my speech today and the speeches of those who come after me. Therefore, not only the collapse of the Croatian economy but also the long-term collapse of the Croatian pension system. We are all aware that the continuation of this trend now 15-year trend will ultimately lead to this pension system being set very hard to be sustainable in the years to come. Of course, people who run the Pension Insurance Office can't answer that problem. They are trying the terms and conditions of the given finances and the conditions of those set standards that are maximumly correct to run that institution, i.e. free to say, pension fund. It's no institution, it's just a pension fund, as it was today, it's going to stay in the future. Therefore, a state pension fund which, based on clearly defined criteria, pays out pensions to individual categories of insurance undertakings. I've wondered before, and now I'm wondering what a brief recession is doing here, what he's doing, what he's doing today, and I really don't understand why this child's allowance is already somehow not actually taken out of the Pension Insurance Office, there's certainly a way that it would be quite different through some other institutions because the child's allowance and Croatian pensions really don't know exactly what they're doing. In the structure of that amount that is allocated to pensions, half goes to retirement pensions, and the other half goes to all these other pensions under special rules. I think there's that ratio somewhere. As for the retirement age, the retirement age according to these data that are here in the table shows has no longer changed for many years for any particular category of insurance. So it's going somewhere, so the old-age, that's the insurance internship, so the insurance internship goes about 32 years for retirement pensions, about 33, 34, 35 for premature, about 23 years, 24 for disabled, etc. Less or less at this point, everyone is unhappy with their pensions. Those who are in disability pensions, they think those pensions are too small. Why? Because it's very hard for these pensions to survive. Those who are in retirement feel that these pensions are unfair because they have done the whole working life, and cannot live with dignity at this time, or very hard to live. Those who are in family pensions feel that those who have received these family pensions have also done a fair job and that they, as holders of these family pensions, also find it difficult to survive. And probably everyone is right because Croatian workers today are very hard to survive. The establishment of the second pillar, which was part of the only real pension reform that was actually implemented in Croatia, is a good idea, it is a meaningful idea and certainly has a purpose in the long term. What is not clear to us is why we are looking at in some way in the long term given the unsustainability of this first pillar which will continue to become increasingly difficult and more difficult to deal with in the years to come, given that there is really no strategy or perspective of real economic recovery, why is it not thinking today and tomorrow about how to make this second pillar more functional, how to make it actually more useful for future pension users? We don't agree or agree as a club, nor will we agree in the future with those who call for the removal of the second pillar. Such a move would be long-term harmful to future customers of Croatian pensions, such a move would be a short-term charge and a relief to those who exercise power today, and in the long run would cause great and inconspicuous damage to future pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. A move relating to the possible allocation of part of the funds to those who have a benified post from the second pillar, if they agree, can be considered acceptable under these conditions in which the State is presently located. But what should certainly be done in this context should be considered the amounts of compensation that those who manage these societies in the second pillar. And it is interesting that no one referred even at the time of this economic crisis to the amounts of compensation incurred by users from the second pillar of society. This is very easy and possible to amend by law and we call for these changes to be made and for their revenues to be corrected in accordance with the economic opportunities in which Croatia is located, and also for HANFA to significantly increase the effectiveness of the supervision of the work of these pension societies in the second pillar. But to return to our structural..., also mentioning the establishment of a Center for Medical Engineering, there is a proposal to establish such a body. We are on a committee that spoke, which was discussed simply, we think that at this point it will not be feasible for the simple reason that the formation of such expert bodies in which they would be specialists of various professions with long-term experience in several regional centres, permanently employed by one such body, is not possible because simply these people today cannot get on the labour market to go to work in one such institution. There are no people on the labour market, and if someone doesn't believe me, they can look at the list of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia and see that none of them are currently on the market. And working in one such body is not competitive, it is neither professional nor personal challenge, wages are lower, so you simply have no one to gain in one such body. That's why there are various bodies, sometimes not the happiest, but the only possible thing that, where people work part-time at the Social Security Centres and so on or have worked on disabled commissions for wartime war people, etc., but simply these people could not have been obtained in a different way that they could not have been hired permanently at the Pension Insurance Office or by other bodies professionally skilled. And you'll see, you've recently announced a tender for professional warlocks with some standard and you'll see how many people are going to call you in that contest, it's certainly not as much as you're looking for in these competitions. So let me get this straight. Croatian citizens, Croatian pensioners are certainly not and cannot be satisfied with the current state of pension, but as far as this report is concerned, it is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70175	Replica, Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70176	You have also carefully and wisely analyzed the opportunities that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute currently has in solving this problem and its possibilities and inability and this very reasonable exposure may be lacking only one synthesis of the reasons for the cause that led to this situation. The peace funds in the former Yugoslavia were republican and were extremely rich. From these funds, money was borrowed from the economy, all retirement homes that exist in Croatia were made from these pension funds. Retirement at the time was 70% of the salary, people were happy to retire, pensioners lived well. Then HDZ came in, and in the first place he retired, sent a huge number of people, some because of their nationality, some because they didn't like them ideologically. They said they're commies and they have nothing more to be in a working relationship with them all retired. They put the pension fund on hold, the pensions started to fall. Then they took out a privatisation where companies failed, so these new owners bought only buildings and terrain, that's what they were interested in. They bought companies that immediately shut down, and that was the second wave of people's retirement. Third after the Homeland War. Instead of rehabilitating the defenders who returned from the war, they went from working to war, and when they returned, those companies were gone. They were robbed, robbed and shut down. Instead of trying to rehabilitate them, they sent a huge number into retirement. The relationship between the employees and the pensioners has been so disrupted that no HZMO administration can resolve it. The question of whether or not the government can solve it. He's trying to, by separating pensions by special regulations from those that come out of work, and that's the only way to do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70177	Thank you very much. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70178	In the good part of the debate, we agree with the fact that we still have to be correct, so the '90s came democracy, the transition came, the multiparty came and changed the social system. So similar problems were experienced by other societies that were not faced with war like Croatia. But when it comes to today and the people who are in disability pensions, they are now in a situation that these pensions are small and that they are prevented from being included in the labour market in any way. And that's why I think the answer would have to exist. So not or-or but also. We have a large resource of labour that will come in years to come if it starts again and has to start before or later a growing period that will be able to re-enter the labour market if we open up the possibility that the labour market can be included without losing their pensions, as they are today in a situation that is practically lost if they want to be included in a flexible labour market in some way. They are disabled in this today, and we will have to think about the flexibility of the labour market how to include some categories of pensioners in a way that is competitive in that labour market, without losing those revenues that they are making today, because these revenues are small and in the years that come they will be even lower than average wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70179	Thank you. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70180	Thank you very much. How I didn't have a replica, but good. Thank you very much for the intervention and for the opportunities you've given me. Col. Djurovic, you said already the vice president of the Parliament very constructively discussed and even made proposals, so the HDSSB not only criticises but also offers constructive suggestions let me say a slow exit from this situation in which this institution or fund is located, as you called it pension insurance. You've talked about the second pillar, even though it's not the subject of this debate, but it's connected to each other, so something can get out of it. About how there was an evening of the number of employees and the number of pensioners you spoke well. And what Mr. Stazic said at your debate was actually about that acceptance that was carried out by the year 2000, where the defenders came from the battlefields actually had no place to work because the tycoons who were supported by the political elite privatized companies and our warriors went relatively and mostly young in retirement, so they are the same bonds of this Mirovinski Fund. And since 2000, when the drama came we have little shifts between the number of employees, it stabilized at 1.2, 1.18 etc. The Center for Medical Engineering that you were talking about is true that it will be very difficult to find such experts as would be needed. But here's a moment ago you were talking about contracts on the work of a possibly retired, so maybe there's a chance that right at the Medical Arts Center might be doing that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70181	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70182	Thank you. So, I was just about to say that an act contract is an unfavourable form of employment, that's what we have today, or you're working on indefinitely, or you have an act contract. The contract of action is unfavourable. We need to find models within the framework of amendments to labour legislation that will happen safely in the years that come to enable the re-employment of a part of these people, so if you want it to go into their retirement period. But to keep their pension rights from being reduced. Therefore, they can truly be equal as they can not compete in part with this labour market today, because this system as we have today is making it more sustainable for years and years because of the fall in that ratio and it will not be maintained. It will still be years before some more serious pensions really begin from the second pillar. Thus, over this one transition period of the next 10, 15 years will take thinking of how in a smart sense these people simply engage. Many of them can work, they can give a lot but simply many of them also if they find a way to war then lose their pension if part of their pension is not worth working with. It's more worth starving at this point than trying to work somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70183	So we'll continue the debate at 15.00 hours. The first is the club of Croatian Labourists and colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70184	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70185	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear director of HZMO, colleagues and fellow MPs. A report on the work and business of HZMO, I agree with all those who said that a long time ago there should have been a debate on this report because six months had passed as it was referred to the parliamentary procedure, so here it is today. Although the Croatian Labourists do not see anything controversial in the report itself, they think the report is correct, it is abundant with a lot of very important data and Croatian Labourists will support this report, but we would like to warn of certain important developments in the status of pensioners, in the case of insurance companies and in the case of pension insurance and HZMO, which in some ways care for millions and 200 thousand pensioners and, somewhere, it is paid by millions and 400 insurance companies. And now that we compare the data and analyses that were made in the report, they're pretty good, but we're asking ourselves whether this system is even sustainable in the long term, whether knowing that to finance the pension system takes 35 billion what was said, a little bit more than that, that the contributions are being raised somewhere around 19 billion, while the budget needs to be further allocated 16 billion to finance pensions. Such a system with 15% contribution in the long term is unsustainable. Looking at around 120,000 insurance companies going to retire from 5 to 10 years somewhere, and if nothing important happens when it comes to employment, and hardly within that, there are a lot of black forecasts that there will be no significant employment growth then this system will be questioned too. Today, it was the same speech about the second pension pillar, and I can understand those who advocated that second pension column, and that these are personal assets and they are clear that they should not be touched, but we have to ask ourselves that in 2002, when the reform on the pension system was adopted and when that second pillar was introduced, that 5% was taken from the first pillar, and then they were completely different economic movements, different employment. And then maybe you could talk about sustainability, not entirely today, especially since our calculations that say that all those who have below average salary will not be helped from the second pillar and their incomes will be very low. Especially those with very small incomes will not have enough from the second pillar for bread and milk, as they will receive in one month. And that is why we as Croatian Labourists have clearly defined that this second pillar should be reformed and not in a way that is violently taken from individuals because it is their own personal means, but it allows them to decide whether through the transformation of the second pillar to turn it into a voluntary one, and the first pillar to return that rate of 20% because it can only as such be sustainable to finance pensions because I am afraid that long-term watching will come to a complete collapse when it comes to the payment of pensions or the possible budget will not be able to finance, and which will then be a clear blow to the reduction of the rights of the existing pensioners. And now that we look at the insurance companies, that from 2012 until the end of 2013 to combine certain data, then workers in private persons were reduced by 20,000 of them who were paying into funds. Workers in natural persons were reduced 5,000, craftsmen 3000 and independent activity 800, which means 32000 of those who paid in funds were reduced during that period. Today was the same speech, and here the director pointed out about the ratio of insurance and pensioners, and that's where the indicators are clear. This report shows that 1.18 insurance companies are opposite one pensioner while new data for 2013 say whether the number of insurance companies I had previously said for 32000 dropped, and they are somewhere at the end of last year a million and 400 thousand 630 insurance companies, while the pensioner is slightly less than a million and 200000. And that ratio fell from 1:1.18 to 1:17. But here we also have to consider the information that we were talking about today, and that somewhere 27 thousand pensioners who don't have their OIB, which when they deliver the OIB will probably get into this part of the statistical data. And if they were added up then there are much more significant and negative trends and then they would have a ratio of one pensioner to 1.15 insurance companies which I think is a very alarming situation and that something important should be done because these are data that clearly say that they will come under the question of the sustainability of pensions at all. What is mentioned in the report, which is also the resolution of the rights and conduct of the proceedings and in the report itself, is quite envious and it is seen that 91% of the cases were resolved in the first degree, in the second degree of 76% of the cases and that the overall efficiency is 90%, which means that at 514600 requests 463000 were resolved. Here I would also turn to one more piece of information, which is a matter of employment, and we see that through all these reports there is less employment in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, which is what the Director is today about and said that he currently has 2937 employees and has also indicated certain data that there are reduced and the costs of certain services and that they are significantly lower. I am on a round table that was held the other day and heard certain information about outsourcing because the Croatian Pension Insurance Office had already set off part of the service it had provided long ago, which is primarily cleaning from the service. And what I heard in some way also interested me to say today, because the companies that took over the cleaning obligation they imposed certain standards in a way that even by their own estimates to clean one room it takes two minutes, which means that those workers who work on cleaning, and mostly those workers should have the roachs to arrive in time to clean up. And there's this one observation that it's quite unquality to do that service. And it might be good to do one analysis and see what this total means when it comes to financial resources in a way that part of the workers who worked on cleaning in the pension fund was what their cost was, and how much today's cleaning services cost. Because I think that, that data would certainly be good for us to combine what's going to happen to us tomorrow in health care or somewhere else. There was talk here today about skill and that he's coming out of retirement, he's becoming a separate body, which can be good. But some also warned that a certain part of the problem might arise, but it also offered me the part to look back at a certain part of the currentity which was and which had quite significant public attention, which was the issue of reviewing disability pensions, physical damage. Minister Mrsic then bombed the public that the problem of illegality will be resolved very quickly. It was a top theme for a while. Well, I don't know, maybe it would be a good idea to say how much legal procedure has been initiated for determining the legality of false pensions. And something else when the minister boasted the same thing, which is a matter of physical damage to the employees themselves at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, so as far as it is covered and proved to have abused certain legal regulations and somehow obtained certain privileges, because I think the public is interested and that it would be good to say certain information to be heard and known and not only to talk about praises in public and ultimately the result when we need to sum up then he is none or then simply goes into oblivion. It is also a question of responsibility when we present to the public certain assessments and certain things that will happen, that, on the basis of these and the assessment and presentation of such information, feedback on what is the situation and what has been done is also given. Here's so much from the Croatian Labourists and finally I repeat that part we will support the report because the report is as very well-conceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70186	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director with an associate, colleague and colleague. And for this report, I have to say that we are working on it late, we are discussing it late and that we are absolutely important for the report, and an analysis of these reports is important for both the budget and, in particular, the adoption of the budget for each coming year, given the fact that we need to separate or find a significant part of it for pensions. So, I think that we should discuss such reports by mid-term at the latest. So it is my opinion that we should have discussed this report by the end of the summer session of the Croatian Parliament last year. Of course the data is still relevant today. But like yesterday, when we discussed a report on abuses, or a report that speaks about everything we do to reduce it to the least possible measure of drug abuse. And today it has to be repeatedly repeated that these data are out of date, so the trends have not changed drastically, but these are data that are definitely out of date. But back to the report, I suggest that we try to agree that all these important reports on such important areas of life come to us sooner, if necessary, we can change some laws and that such reports as this on the work of the Pension Insurance Office are the basis for the adoption of the state budget. The problems we are struggling with are the problems of many other countries and the economic ones stronger than Croatia, and we are absolutely certain that we will be spinning around in circles until the Croatian economy is strong, until the number of employees is larger from year to year. The ratio that all my colleagues, or colleagues, have talked about so far, is worrying. This is the ratio that shows that this system on glass legs and that at any moment one of these legs can be broken and that at any moment it can actually happen that this system comes into the area of complete collapse. And that is why it would be very important and he knows that this will unfortunately not happen, that at least around this system or about five steps that we should take in the next five years, we should achieve some kind of consensus, not so difficult in view of the fact that it is one large part of the electoral body, so I guess every party who wants to come to parliament after the next elections or participate in the formation of the government should be important to people who retire or who are going to retire tomorrow promise larger pensions. However, today it is actually in the area of the science of fiction so that unfortunately there will be no agreement. One government takes some steps, for example, to leave later to retire, the opposition says at the time when we come to power we'll put it all back to normal. And then that opposition comes to power, and then it takes even bigger steps, so that we're going to retire even later, and we're actually spinning in a vicious circle. It is interesting to observe, and I think it should be the focus of our attention to the ratio of employees and pensioners and how it has been shrinking here since 2008. 1:40 to 2011. 1:21 and now 1:1.18, so it's almost another step to being 1:1. No system can withstand that. Of course, it's important in that sense to see the ratios of 97, 98, it wasn't so far, almost 1:2, but the fact that since 2005-2008 we've recorded growth again, so we came to 1:1.40 and then at a time of crisis, of course it went down again. It is also important to observe the age structure of the pensioners. So, pensioners according to age groups here, as you have seen, we all have up to 24, of course, the most important thing is to observe these between 65, 69, 70, 74, that is also the largest group of pensioners when people are living frequently and absolutely below the limit of endurance in view of the ever longer and in good health. The average internship and these are the points around which this debate should be held, so the average internship and strive towards that higher average of 32 years. It is also interesting to see on page 9, so retirement according to the types of pensions, so that was the end of 2012. So more than 52% were old-age pension users, and the disabled amounted to more than 322 thousand. So this first one should increase from year to year, and this disabled one, therefore, does everything to make it possible for the disabled person to be from year to year as much as possible and thus to reach through a certain period of time balance. In particular, we need all the concerned information relating to those more than 322 thousand pensioners who have pensions of up to 1500 kuna, so that's the amount of pension I dare say not to live or die of. So, as many as 322 thousand of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens have a pension of up to 1500 kuna. The data that concerns me personally as a woman and as a politician is that more than 61% of these pensioners and pensioners who have only up to 1500 kuna make up women. Why? And as there is another debate before us about amendments to the Labour Act, I remind you, and that's the general place where we speak to women and their position on the labour market, so they have a whole life of mostly less wages for the same job, they are paid less regardless of their qualifications, and then here, consequently, they have fewer pensions. So more than 61% of women in this category up to 1500 kuna, extremely, extremely worrying. So when people who receive 1500 kunas or up to 1,500 kunas, which means less, they manage to pay for the directories, there's practically nothing left for them for life. And that is, it should be a policy business in general, it should be a job of politicians, it should be a job of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, how to get out of this circle. Now we should have data for 2013, and we should discuss them. Why? Because we have a budget rebalance before us, because we will talk again about the scissors we have entered with regard to deficits and about all the measures Croatia must take as a member of the EU and it would be time to compare ourselves in this area with EU members. Not with those old members because they too, although they have problems with the pension system, but with those who have become members of the EU before us, and I think the time is coming when and at that level, so Brussels will open a very comprehensive and comprehensive debate on this. The report is well-conceived, of course, the report only brings dry data that speak of often, life tragedies that are not described here, but we can read them, especially when compared, I return to these pensions up to 1500 kuna, when compared to pensions that the users have achieved under favourable conditions, or according to specific regulations when compared to pensions, this is whose average is 8870, so these are the pensions of government officials. I remind you that we have also reduced these pensions in the past, and in 2009 we have decreased by 10, and again by 10%, but the range between them remains large. I am not saying that, of course, people who retire under special regulations, many of those mentioned and in this table we talk about every year do not deserve such pensions, however, many of them primarily Croatian defenders deserve very much because, as you know in the Law on Croatian Defences back in 2005, we are sorry, we also introduced a provision on the lowest pension for Croatian defenders who reach the age of life, but do not have any other conditions under special regulations, so it is one recognition and respect that the state has shown to them. In the end, it seems to me that a colleague from the HDSSB has already mentioned or someone else from before me, the supplement, therefore the illogicalness of having a continuous spin and extra charge for children in this system. You should think about it, we've been trying to do something in that sense in previous years. What's good, what's seen in this report, so for an extra in 2012 billion and 700 million kunas, so they didn't cut those funds, they didn't change the regulations that we introduced here long ago, that each third and fourth children were also given so-called. the ultimate supplement of 500 kuna, so the third and fourth additions to the regular allowance, those in the system of surcharges. It's a good thing it hasn't changed and it hasn't changed. However, data also show that the number of children in the user's allowance is reduced. Why? Because it reduces the number of children in Croatia and it is also a data that should be served as one of the reference points in making decisions that are related to the most intelligent policy of the Republic of Croatia because if we are not there, then no one will have to work, and then, of course, those remaining pensioners will not receive pensions. I'm not going to end up so pessimistically, this is one of those times when you should start with ideas about what to do in this system, how to improve it, how to improve it, and how to stabilize it because these glass legs that it stands on are very fragile and the question is the day when it will break. Of course we support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70188	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. It's a turtle, Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kosor, I would like to clarify this group of pensioners up to 1500 kuna, of course, that this is not some pension that can practically live or pay for directing, but we need to know the structure of those pensioners that are in that group. We have about 140 thousand people ino pensions, these are people who worked in Croatia for an average of 11 years, and the rest have somewhere in Germany, Austria or in a foreign country. The average is about 720 kuna, perhaps the second part of the pension is 700 euros. Thus, they found themselves in the group and thus lower the overall average. The farmers are also in that group. We have farmers older who are retired until '98 and their average is about 900 kuna, but their average internship is 16 years. We also have new pensioners farmers with an internship of 20 who have 300 kunas higher, therefore they are all in the same group. It's about a very small and low internship and low pensions. There are also around 190 thousand users of the lowest pensions, and these are people who have had very low wages in their working life, whose pension today is about 980 kuna, and the difference as some kind of social supplement, it's like some kind of social security amounting to another 450 kuna, and so that's the average below 1500 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70190	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70191	Thank you very much. Mr. Schamper, of course I know I didn't speak of it specifically, I know what the structure of the pensioners is among those 322 thousand, so I know very well that these are actually three categories. But with all these explanations that you have now presented that I know of, of course, we are again coming to the same conclusion that from that, as not even from the average Croatian pension, we can actually live normally. So I haven't attacked anyone, I'm just talking about what the facts are, so while a man is working if he has some average salary hard to live on, but when he retires and with that average pension, and all of this you've been counting on when something else is added up, we come up with an average pension, and it can't be lived or can live very hard. People also survive because often children are also helped by family members. That's our common problem, so that's where we have to keep looking for solutions because when people retire, they can't live, they have to live. It's certainly a challenge for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70192	Thank you. The next replica of Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70193	Thank you very much. Dear President of our Parliament, dear colleague Kosor. I share your concern about the fact that more women or women have less pensions. That's part of it because they get 10% less than men their whole life for the same job, but part of it is because parental leave is used almost exclusively by women. Less than 2% of men decide that which, of course, also affects their pension when the time comes. So I think that we should seriously consider maybe, in a recent future, introducing a literal obligation for both mother and father to use parental leave during the same period of time. I think it's good for both fathers and mothers and their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70194	Thank you, too. Answer, here you go, Comrade Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70195	Yes, you mentioned what you mentioned, but unfortunately only MPs or women in politics say that women with the same qualifications in the same or higher education at the same workplace are generally less paid. Women work harder jobs, men are bosses, look at Croatian courts mostly where there are already very many women but the bosses are or are the main ones mostly men again. So in the administrations of all major companies, it's rare for women to get that first position. So we have the absurdity that women who have the most common and the family therefore work at least twice as much as men, if we include this job for the family, for children, for the home they have less wages than men. Then finally, of course, less pensions. I support your intensities that men use more of course because when the average is calculated then going to a woman on parental or maternity leave is also included and entering the average. However, I think that at some age of life, we would not have too much use for our wives and fathers to be with our children in order to perhaps choose words. Here I think of the first year of a child's life when it is advisable to breastfeed children and when it is extremely important to have that close relationship with mothers. But in other periods, I agree. I agree, for example, after a second year of life, if they were with a child for a year, it would enlighten many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70196	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70197	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, you've caused me quite a bit of debate. In fact, you are completely undemocratic, even though I expect you to be full of democracy, you would force men to be with children. So that's what you said, we need to get men to take maternity leave like they gave birth, not women. But what I wanted to say was not that but something, it's you in your replica, or in your reply to the replica. After all, the direct question is, are you less paid in this place than I am? We're both MPs. It's either Mile Horvat or a colleague of Novak's. Don't talk like that. So someone who's in the same workplace has the same pay, whether it's a man or a woman. It is true that in Croatia, the situation is such that in the textile industry, most women work in shops where there are low wages, and then pensions are actually small, which is a fact, unfortunately, a sad fact. I am not for it, on the contrary, for it is for women to have pensions in that sense equal to that. But I don't need you here to discuss this pension institution, the fund, now to express that I don't say the views feministally, extremely feministally. But I wanted to say something else, you were talking about the most intelligent policy in which you, as prime minister, had relative success right in your term of office when you were Prime Minister and I know about the measures that were taken. About 40,000 children are born in Croatia annually, about 50,000 people die by statistics. Every year, Croatia loses that way, so by natural outflows bigger than 10 thousand, it loses 10,000 people, so that's the problem. Not only are the measures of the most innovative policy this allowance for children now included in the pension fund, which is ridiculous, pension fund and child allowance included in the same bag of money. We also need to find new measures and new money just to fix the birth rate and get new results in Croatia's most intelligent policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70198	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70199	I'm pretty worried because a dear colleague happens more and more often that you don't understand me, you don't understand what I'm talking about, and now it's proven that you don't read the material we're discussing, and I'm going to read to you a dear colleague about the sex structure between pensions of up to 1500 kuna is relatively more women 61% than in the total number of pensioners, which is due to the fact that women achieve a lower salary average and a shorter pension internship. That's what my colleague König told you about, so she mentioned they were going to... etc. But this shows all the statistics and all the research that you, of course, don't do as a man, and I as a woman, yes, which shows that women are usually and most often and very often less paid for the same job. Here's a colleague who knows and approves, so it has nothing to do with feminism, it has to do with equality, it has to do with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which does not make a distinction between men and women, but says that we are all equal and that's what I'm talking about. And I didn't say that the extra is the best thing that will reverse the demographic image, I just mentioned that it's one measure and that it's a good thing that this government hasn't given up on it. So the allowance and the extras that are not small and innovative supplements for each third and fourth children, with a regular allowance, is 500+300, that's 800 kuna for each third and fourth children. And it's not right for you to rephrase to me what my colleague König brought to me, it's counter-business. There's so much about it for now. ... You don't speak now because you don't have a word but I do because I answer to your line. (Laughter) [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70200	Thank you. And the replica is the debate of colleague Kosor. On behalf of the HDZ club, Djuro Popiac and Ivan Shuker will discuss. Here you go, buddy Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70201	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today, so the debate on the 2012 HZMO Work and Business Report is under way, so we are not discussing last year's snow, but rather, in advance, although it was snowing in the west of the country this morning. This report is a smaller report on work and business, and it is actually a view of the difficult state of our pension system, which again represents one of the most complex topics of our overall and economic and social and social moment. In 2012, the ratio of the number of pensioners and insurance companies was 1:1,18 which was then the lowest historical ratio of those who paid in the pension system and those who received pensions. During the crisis, this ratio decreased from 1:1.4 in 2008 to 1:1.11 in 2011. Then we thought that the negative trends had finally stopped and held that the worst was behind us. In two quarters of 2011, we recorded economic growth and ended that year with so much now unattainable zero. But today, unfortunately, we are witnessing that the disastrous economic policy of this government has made the entire picture of the labour market critical and almost unsustainable. Today we record 382 thousand 380 registered unemployed, record low employment million and 400 thousand and a record number of pensioners. Let me remind you, at the end of 2011, we were welcomed by 305,000 registered unemployed, equally huge and unsustainable figures. Today, the ratio of insurance and users is far from the historical worst from 2012, so we have a new historical worst ratio of 1:1,16. And what's worse, obviously, is that no one else in this government does anything to stop this dramatic trend. Compared to 2011 today, 75,000 people pay less pension funds, so many people in Croatia have lost their jobs more over the past two years than they have received. And finally, what's the point of discussing 2012 figures now? What we should have here is certainly the government's plan to make this state change, which means that this pension system would not fall apart, what hope and existing and future pensioners this government can offer. These are of course not topics for directors of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute but for others. HZMO is the holder of compulsory pension insurance based on generation solidarity which operates as a public institution. And here is the year 2012 and we celebrated the 1990s anniversary of the draft HZMO. And he's always done his part in those 90 years of HZMO, so here's all these years. In the 2012 HZMO work plan, various objectives have been set, and one of them certainly was to improve the existing system of workers in order to make HZMO a modern, public institution that involves the implementation of permanent training of workers, the improvement of the judiciary for employment and organisational development, and the career development system. These were the plans that were in 2012. Today here in two years we'll probably be discussing whether they've been realised by 2014. Among other things, the plan also provides for the implementation of incentives for employment through vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship. We do not know, therefore, how many young people have passed through such a system in HZMO today, and we see that in 2012, the number of employees has been reduced by 130. So for these people through professional training without a working relationship was a place, for these 130 is not. They probably retired, so from one of the hollows to an empty stream. But I believe that this employment of young people through this vision has also been aimed at improving the statistics of so-called. Mrsic, Minister Mrsic of this action about pumping fictitious employment. Furthermore, a recently implemented procedure for the adoption of the new Pension System Act has been seen as an opportunity for this government to finally accept serious reforms. Although marketed by the minister as a reform of the pension system, unfortunately nothing important has happened. On the contrary, changes in the law further diminished the chances of making this pension system sustainable in the long term. I therefore believe that this analysis, or statistics, could primarily serve as the basis for a serious and dramaticly necessary procedure in the pension system. From year to year HZMO presents these figures, trends are seen, the structure of the pensioners is clear, but unfortunately we testify that there are no suggestions about what should be done in these reports. I understand that I don't even keep it necessary, because the HZMO profession and so no one asks anything, and it's quite clear that the current government actually decided to buy time and do nothing. The problems they leave behind will obviously be solved by someone else just so it's not too late. In addition, the continued release of information and problems of the second pension pillar and the latest move by the finance minister is when any source of money for the State budget's recovery is introduced in a panic demand for private pension savings by future pensioners, new uncertainty and new instability. Given everything we have seen in the last two years, what has been coming to our table, what this House has voted for, we have no expectations that any excessively sustainable and necessary reform procedure will be produced in this government. Most speakers before me have looked back at the figures presented, and there is no point in repeating it anymore, because there are no more people from the government here who should also say anything about doing anything in their mandate to stop this collapse of the future of the pension system. But it is quite clear as all economic indicators record negative trends, while every day companies continue to fail, and people lose their jobs and the fate of the pension system simply cannot be different. Now my colleague will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70202	Mr. President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Well, maybe in this report that has good data is the most symptomatic one sentence that simply guides us that when we talk about pensions, pension laws, we have to really look at what happened before. So on page five, there's a sentence that says, "The increase in the inflow of pensioners is influenced by the fact that the most numerous so-called "retirement" is increasing. A baby boom generation born in the first decade after World War II. So, it was 60 years ago and it is at this point the most significant blow to say on the pension system of the Republic of Croatia and on the increased inflow of those who retire. And if we had all analyzed together now by which we had discussed the pension system in general, the problem of Croatian pensioners, then I think that nobody in this House of Higher Education, or even colleagues from the Croatian party of pensioners, would simply not be able to say it because there is no such thing. And so this report is crawling with a lot of data that are useful. But I'm still missing one piece of information here, and until I get it, I'm going to talk about it all the time, and it's about this information about the benefits of a job, actually about those who went into retirement by special regulations, and there's 166,000 of them because they're always talking about these people wrongly. First of all, I think of defenders who didn't retire without a job job and who didn't retire that they didn't pay a part of their life in retirement insurance. So, the only thing guaranteeing them by this law is that they took part in the defence of the state, that their pension at the time of retirement if, on the salary they have paid so far, there is nothing else from that amount. And I don't see any reason why their pensions are called benefactors, to be treated like this but someone does not want to show the same as we recently had no chance to discuss the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act because it was offered as an amendment to the Government, and it's about the benefits of working hours and taking more than 5 billion kunas of private money from Croatian citizens who are going under special regulations and going into retirement without at the moment of retirement being paid into the second pillar of retirement nothing means the amount of pension, but at this point their money that's on their account and it's so prescribed, so at this point it might be a chance to talk about it because we didn't have a chance because the bill promoter didn't tell us that, but probably at the budget rebals will be explained again that this is the only way to save the failed economic and fiscal policy of this government's 700 billion dollars. However, the question arises as to what will happen with 2016 when these two billion and 800 million kunas are not and all projections of economic growth say there will be no new revenue based on positive economic and good macroeconomic indicators with which these funds would be alimated to say or compensate in 2016. However, when you take a closer look at this table on page 11, Table 8 then you will see that you do not have a clear definition of how many at this point were actually how many of these people who retired from the benefits of work. So they are mentioned in two places, first there are workers in certain jobs, internal affairs and justice, also active and military persons, police officers and authorized persons, so 28 thousand of them were 31.12.2012. and it would be very interesting to see how many 28 thousand people had agreed to pay the second pillar of the pension. how much she didn't pay them. So again, we're taking it easy to discuss one topic that I don't want you to get wrong now, it's not the pensioners' fault that such a gap is between what is being paid into the pension fund at this point and how much total pension payments under all the laws to understand each other, it's somewhere at this point about $17.5 billion. We will neither discuss this problem nor discuss it when the budget is brought except for some side discussion, nor do we have the opportunity to discuss it practically nor this report because when you look at this report, then you see nothing here because the Croatian Pension Office is not dealing with these revenues. That went over to someone else. However, it is a very interesting piece of information from a colleague and colleague who we are going through lightly and I think we should talk about it. In 2002. 1.7 HZMO and HZZO have moved to the tax administration with tax and tax control. Also, income from health contributions and contributions to pension insurance have entered the state budget. I see that the political nomenclature is only with other persons, now HZZO stands out and the treasury, but the number of employees who once controlled and collected and kept records of pension payments in 2002 is almost identical to the number of employees today. Now that you look at how much work has gone from HZMO to someone else, you have today a Regos that counts so many and so many hundred employees and you have the collection and control of income from the basis of a pension contribution to the tax administration. However, the question arises which was the purpose of then the separation of the HZMO team more than the transfer of the quality debt data data at that time, especially as regards craftsmen and farmers, which leads all the way to the capital fund story. It is really not clear to me, first of all, that the Croatian party of pensioners, so to speak, is no longer riding on the subject, because eventually they had most people on the board of directors, and this capital fund was part of companies that were still in debt from the time of the former state and in the 1990s for the payment of pension insurance, the assets of the capital fund were intended to increase the standards of Croatian pensioners. If I am not mistaken in the capital fodne, there were 25% of Pliva shares, so someone remembered that there was a debt to drug suppliers to pay 7% of the shares, and so Croatia lost any possibility of managing rights in Pliva because when you fell from 25 to 17% then you no longer had any ability to manage and logical thing to any later debate on this topic falls into the water. As you can see, this capital fund has come to a miserable 2 billion, it has been transferred to an audience and it has practically nothing to do with pensions anymore, with a pension fund and has nothing to do with pensioners. So this report is well done and good quality, as far as professionally concerned. However, if we read it more carefully, then we will see that it opens up a number of issues that this High House should discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70203	Thank you, too. We've got three replicas at the Đura Poichi debate. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow drinker on statistics presented in this report writes that in 1989 there were employees of 2 million and 32,000. And today there's a million and 430 thousand employees. If we were to add up and get jobs today, all 380 thousand would be employed by 1803 thousand people, so less for 200 thousand than in 1989. What does that mean? That means if we actually had an unemployment rate of 0 and then in 89, there was the same thing as the employment bureau and it was maybe 10% unemployment rate. So the number of citizens, mostly those of working age, simply decreased. It is the sadness of Croatia that is in action and in sight. So, we don't have the number of employees who were in '89. years smaller, we've got 200 grand smaller. Secondly, during your ruling party, there has been a conversion of all pensioners who have mostly or almost fully worked in BiH. I know when it was '98. years, so the nurse who worked in Brod for 5 years, and 35 years in Derventa or the Bosnian Ship went normally into Croatian retirement as if she had done an entire internship in, so it increased the number of pensioners in Croatia, I'm not talking about rights and the rest, but simply began to increase the abnormal number of pensioners. So there was an increase in the number of pensioners along the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70205	Thank you. A fellow drinker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70206	Thank you very much. My colleague, there are a number of reasons why Croatia has such a huge proportion of those who are users and those who pay the pension system, numerous reasons, some of which you mention, but you also mentioned in '89. a year and then numbers on both employees and pensioners. When it is mentioned, however, it should be understood that such a way and such an economic order or system have simply experienced a world break and a global collapse. If we had 2 million employees, the question is, of course, how much their productivity was, and if it was good, it wouldn't have all gone down and everywhere except for two countries that still exist in the world. So this model had an economic breakdown, and it was defeated by another economic model, and it fell apart everywhere it existed and let's not complain about that system because it was fake, hidden employment. This economy, this economy was uncompetitive and could only live under certain economic circumstances and circumstances. And that's why we wanted him, of course, and that's why we thanked him and changed him. The second question is 6, 7, 8 years of aggression, the second question is billions of war damage and total infrastructure destroyed, and I expected that you might look more at it, about these causes and the emergence of such proportions in the pension system. And of course, it may have been a shame and it was probably a mistake in all those times to find the exit by sending it into retirement, but regretting and crying about some failed system that assessed the whole world as a failure, so I think it should no longer be a subject but a topic should be how to start improving, how to reach more successful countries, and not those who still live in such a system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70207	Thank you. Next replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70208	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Popioč, your pension system-style statements are falling apart, into hollow pits, hiring without a working relationship. I know that here in the Croatian Parliament, of course we hear all kinds of statements and, of course, it is the right of every MP, but at least you could expect to be a little bit more rational about this, because the state of the pension system, you might say, could be able to be with when you were in power, but as far as starting a work relationship without employment, without starting a working relationship, you can't say that 15 thousand young people of whom there are certainly 50% of them left, proved themselves, in their work where they worked and remained to work, are not except for certain assets of 1600 kuna plus to 1000 kunas for transportation that they had the right to provide and the dignity of work which is primarily and important for young and the right chance and to learn and to do something that you call hollow hollow hollow hollow hollow hollow hollow hollows, I think that is below the level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70209	Thank you. A fellow drinker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70210	Thank you very much. My colleague, many speakers today have looked back on the dramatic state of our pension system and everyone sees it and those of course living in that system and those who should, who will live if there is one at all, only obviously you don't see it, that's the truth and that's the fact and we, unfortunately, and what is being brought here and under the parole of pension reform, here's the recent law that's been passed, then there was an opportunity and then we pointed out and said, and of course what the consequences and this law and these changes will bring into further collapse of that system. So, however we characterise that condition, it's not good and whatever it is I didn't say it was destroyed, but it's going to collapse unless something is done, it's quite safe because someone's going to have to deal with it, you or someone else, but obviously that you in these two years and now you're going to do nothing more important to make the situation more sustainable. And as for these, of course, people who have accepted and worked for 1600 kunas and made available to all those who took them, received to work under these conditions, for the state administration it was before, but I don't know if you know that nobody is actually receiving trainees or even banks anymore. And that banks are hiring, or taking these people for 1600 kunas, and then after a year possibly new for 1600 kunas and then eventually leaving some and working in some traineeship. That is, unfortunately, the absurdity of this measure, which is why we have held that measure only for the public sector, and it is not to be accepted or to be a rule of conduct in the private sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70211	Thank you. And the last replica, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70212	I don't know if I should have picked up the bat twice, but I think I should have answered the question. First, I'm very confused if it's all the time talking about laws talking about the pension system, and the topic on our agenda is the HZMO 2012 report, it's about a public institution that has to implement laws, which must operate according to the laws passed by this High House. I can agree that we must and can discuss the property that is being registered, which is owned by HZMO and which can go to the management of someone else, but the final word on the fate of that property will be passed by the Governing Council of HZMO. So I would invite all of us to talk about something else, and if you really want to talk about the pension system as chairman of the Labour Committee, the pension system and the social partnership, I accept every initiative that we have an all-day debate if you want in the Small Council on the sustainability of the system, the second pillar, the third pillar. But today we are talking about HZMO's 2012 report on how this large company of cca 3,000 people works and what services it gives to citizens, are we satisfied with these statistics whether they can be shown differently, can we say that all those who are shown there have a pension of up to 500 kuna, is it really real because besides 400 kunas from Croatia have maybe a German pension and we don't see it in the report. Can we talk about this one time? 'Cause look, otherwise I'm in an absurd situation. I stood up for the new Pension Insurance Act to discuss the report and give an amendment that was accepted, and we are discussing laws and systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70213	Thank you. You've announced the replica of your colleague, Pupijac, and he'll answer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What am I supposed to say now? We're discussing the 2012 report, so I've been thinking since then, what, 0 commas I don't know how many percentages worse and bad numbers than they were then. So today, what do we talk about about these figures and the Bureau? Well, we said here's one and the other we talked about that the Institute has done its job properly, properly and well within the framework of the law and within everything that's in his jurisdiction and it's been 90 years and now 92 years. And what else should be added to that? Maybe here, whether he was rationally spending this or that, but it's in 36 billion kuna how difficult our pension system budget is, the very cost of this is, of course, a pension system to some extent and a much bigger problem 20 billion that must be compensated from the state budget and all of those causes that have contributed or led to it. So the question arises on what occasions we have the opportunity to discuss all these topics that you're saying, if it's not now when the topic and the report is but also the pension system as a whole. There may be laws that we have talked about and that are announced as reform procedures in the pension system that are actually nothing but compromises, or here's what we have and then established maybe trade between coalition partners. The big problem exists in the pension system it is becoming more and more difficult, we see that the state budget has constant and constant aspirations to touch and capitalize on pension savings and all the topics we want to take advantage of and warn about the problem that we have on this table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70215	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected directors with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us a report on the work and business of HZMO and the state of the pension system based on generation solidarity for 2012. The report shows that in 2012 there was a continued trend in the reduction of the ratio between insurance and pensioners. While in the 1990s, the ratio was 3:1, '98, it halved to 1.5:1 in order to fall to the lowest 1,18:1 in 2012 and for this year something even lower. An unfavourable ratio of pensioners, demographic ageing of the population still existing injustices and restrictions in the pension insurance law and the multiannual crisis are the biggest problems of the Croatian pension system. Too many lost jobs because of privatisation, corruption, exchange rates and cancellations, and because of the gray economy and less paid by contributions to the pension system. Under the password, so-called. restructuring and today we are witnessing the layoff of workers in the overall fight for profits with too little feeling for people and disrespect for those who have installed a part of themselves in all these companies for decades. Social property has become state property, workers have once again paid through the shares what they themselves created, and the wrong concept of privatisation has destroyed the Croatian economy, especially our production. The exit from these problems is constantly sought in reforms and restrictions in the pension system, and the problems are indeed in the economic system and in the highest number of unemployed. There are always claims that there are too many pensioners in the Republic of Croatia to spend too much on pensions, and often pensions are placed in social giving, which they are at their own height but are still earned by payment of contributions. Therefore, we are all likely to agree that the disorder in the pension system still exists, that it should be cleaned up, but the solution to the problem of our pension system is first in employment and more collected contributions, investments in growth of the economy and GDP, and in changing attitudes that nothing is worth producing, but we can import everything. While in December 2011, the average pension according to the Pension Insurance Act amounted to 2151 kuna, which was the share of the average salary 39.17%, in December 2012 there was a small increase to 2184 kuna, which is a slight increase in the result of defrosted harmonisation and an increase in pensions of 2.05 in 2012. The share of pension expenditure due to pension cuts rose from 10.77% to 10.82% of GDP. For comparison, Slovenia, for example, has a total higher pension expenditure of 11.7 of their GDP. And another nice piece of information, a comparison with Slovenia. In Slovenia, salaries are only 26% higher than Croatian salaries and their pensions are 91% higher than Croatian salaries. This is another indicator of the poor wage ratio and pension in the Republic of Croatia. For the third year, total pension expenditure is between €35-36 billion, which retains pension expenditures at a level of 10.5% of GDP, which is lower than the EU average. Slowing pension expenditure growth also contributes to pension levels. The average pension of new pensioners is 19% lower than those retired in '98. years, so-called Dude. And there's Mr. Director my objection to this report because there's no particular reference to this big problem as well as to the previous years. At the end of 2012, we had 487 thousand so-called Old pensioners, retired under the old law until the end of '98. The year and 641 thousand new ones, according to the new law of 1 January '99. A year. The average pension rate of old pensioners on average was 44%, while in the new 36%. This difference stems from the fact that the initial actual value of Matešina's pension was determined by the Government on 1.1.'99. a year without fees and corrections due to an increase in pensions of old pensioners. Although these compensation increases have reduced the total debt to old pensioners, the damage to new pensioners is increasing each year, up to 3.6 billion kuna or more than 1% of Croatian GDP in 2012. This speaks enough of the contribution of this generation of pensioners, the stabilisation of the pension system, and this victim shows a low share of 36% of their pensions in the average salary and therefore it is unacceptable to even think about and talk about any cutting of such small miserable pensions. This report, as well as the analysis which can be specifically drawn from it, shows some significant differences and illogicality in pensions according to the training carried out in certain types of pensions. It was noted that early pensioners with the longest period of training, about 35 years had the lowest pensions per year and amounted to 64 kuna, while the users of disability pensions already discussed today, for the lowest period of 23 years had the highest pensions per year and amounted to 83 kuna, so almost 20 kuna is the difference. On page 5 of this report there is a significant drop in disabled pensioners after 2009 which somehow coincides with the time of the discovery of Dr Rubale's affair and his associates in the event of the discovery of the purchase of fake pensions in Croatia. While 13000 pensioners went into disability in 2008 and 2009, in 2012, only 3616. The report shows how much the Institute has improved communication with insurance companies with a range of opportunities for access to current information through info phones, website of institutions and written and electronic means. Thus, the Institute’s website visited approximately 1.5 million visitors or 19% more compared to 2011, and 16% more than 6 million and 400 million pages were reviewed. In 2012, the password requested 71 000 or 16% more to access the user pages, which were visited more than 260 000 times. These sites were mainly used by pensioners who were able to check their internship and salary in a very simple way to obtain an informative calculation of their future pension. In the monthly HZMO reports, we have objections from pensioners' associations, and they refer to a permanent statistical monthly report on the movement of average pensions. The application refers to the information on the average pension under the Pension Insurance Act, which has been published regularly on the Institute’s website so far. Now, according to the example of international publications, the average retirement pension of 40 and more years for 2012 is published at almost 4000 or 70%. That's a nice piece of information, but it only applies to 12% of pensioners. At the same time, the main website on the website disappeared data on the average pension of all pensioners under the Pension Insurance Act. The pensioners consider that this information should be primarily published in order to compete with all previous years, and this information for a smaller number of pensioners may be a contribution to the monthly report. They can personally commend the effort and all results of those who produce statistical information, who come out quarterly and provide very detailed information on insurance, especially on the movements in the pension system. The purpose of the pension system is economic and social security at age, and the aim of each reform is to ensure adequate pension income and long-term sustainability of the pension system. The biggest problem is how to achieve this balance between purpose and goal. Surely one thing is that stabilising the pension system will contribute to all that we all want and we know that new employment, investment and production, growth of the economy and gross social product will happen as soon as possible. But that's still a long way to go. At the same time, we need to clean up the pension system a little bit of everything that adds to it, which is false pensions, various benefits behind which no contributions are paid and to the detriment of all pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70217	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70218	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Director, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, of course, I would immediately say that we will support this report for 2012. Of course, I agree with my colleagues and colleagues that this debate on 2012 is generally about the fact that dynamics and lives and work and the economy and pensioners and complex economic situations are generally in the quotes and are on the one hand. However, on the other hand, I also agree with some colleagues who have clearly said that these figures are extremely good for analysis, that they are very good, that otherwise and cannot be put in place any measures necessary to address certain problems or problems related to generation solidarity, or the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is certainly not new from today. That's already said. It's been dragging around a long time. However, what I would like to point out on behalf of the HNS Club is that in any case it is commendable that the Office of State Audit in its 2012 audit gave unconditional opinion to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. In any case, it is one positive and clear fact that with all the problems that exist, and here it writes, given what from generation solidarity or work is paid to ensure pensions from the first pillar is not enough. But that's why the way the Institute works for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is almost impeccable. And that's clearly what all those pensioners and those who retire tomorrow must know. And that is something that is in continuity and that is something that is good, because often we here in the Croatian Parliament, even today when we are discussing both pensions and economic development and what part of what the state budget must pay some 16, 17 billion because it is not enough so-called. filling out of work to ensure the pensions that we are required, which people earned before they retired clearly should be said that the management and mode of work and stability of that pension system is absolutely stable and that there is no discussion, debate and question at all while this government is in order to address certain problems, default. In 2012, however, two times in the law made it clear that pension harmonisation was done, a harmonisation that was then based on the sum of the change in the average consumer price index in the previous half-year and the change in the average gross salary rates of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous half-year. In 2012, pensions were adjusted, for the first time by 0.85% since 1 January 2012 and the second time since July 2012 by 1.2%, and thus continued in 2013 and the 14th year, respectively. Therefore, when we talk about the stability of the first pillar pension system, regardless of what it is clear to all that it does not have enough funds to be paid out of contributions, it is not questionable and it is not questionable and I think that when we talk about the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, these are important things to be highlighted as a message to the public when we talk about pensions and that this harmonisation is absolutely monitored, that this is one of the priorities of the Croatian Government stability and the security of the pension system. Of course, the growth of the economy is certainly a prerequisite for all reforms. In order for the pension system not only to be stable, but also to be indexed and to increase and share the average pensions in the average salary to be greater, I would essentially achieve that basic goal, which is to make the standard and pensioners greater. So, the growth of the economy, and especially the part that is related to employees in the working part of the population who is very, very low below 50% in Croatia, and we are aware of that as the ruling coalition and all the measures that are being done, are doing just that in order to increase that share of employees in the working part of the population, so that we should, in part, touch that Labour Act that is currently in the preparation of the debate and which should ensure that they are as much more than the higher and more high-quality employment, indirectly of course and the filling of this part that is related to the pension system. It should also point out from this data certain facts that are not yet colleagues in their discussions, regardless of whether it is a position or opposition debated, that when we look at the number of pensioners on 1000 data insurance companies, then we can see the part that is related to the development of the Republic of Croatia, when I talk about the report of the Peace Institute, then we can also see from these data measures not only in terms of the situation and relations within the Mirovnica system or pensioners of relations but also where there is a greater development is less development, because so the data indicate that in Gospić, Požega, Slavonski Brod, or let's say that the number of pensions users of 1000 insurance companies is much higher than for example. in Zagreb, in Split, in Rijeka or Pula, which indicates that, in any case, and in that part of the development of this government, it should be taken into account that certain measures should be stepped up in this segment, the intensity that is related to development. Of course, this analysis also suggests that certain policies and policies have affected the growth of the number of pensioners but not in the natural order. So when we talk about family pensions that at the end of 2012 were 238,000, when we look at this analysis in 97th to date we see a normal natural sequence of growth of family pensions. However, when we look at old age pensions, then I won't say who was in power but it will quickly be seen how these policies reacted and increased the number of pensioners obviously not by natural order. So we have a sudden jump in retirement pensions from 97-99, and that's 40 grand, usually a 5-10 thousand. We have an early same sudden jump, it's somewhere in 2006-2011 early 60 grand. And it's part of the same policy of certain governments that put some pressure on that part of the population, shifted more pressure on the part that's tied to both the budget and the part that reduced the share of workers that fill this part that's tied to pensions. That's when we talk about policies, so these policies didn't work adequately to secure even 97-99th, and this is a little bit cooler in 2006-2011 to raise so many new jobs but they have provided one 60 thousand new pensioners. What is also important to point out that the number of disability pensions has increased sharply in the same year 97-99, and that this number has obviously fallen over the past year, which means that certain controls and certain controls and the way it has been done have been fully placed on other bases, much more realistic and much more high-quality. There have been discussions and so far related to the fact that we have some 300 thousand pensioners who have less than 1500 kuna, of course that the political everyone is trying to take a certain position on their part and move the ball as you from opposition to us and we logically to you in your way of working and resulting. However, the fact is that there are real and objective circumstances in this report which clearly indicate that there are unfortunately a number of pensioners with lower pensions, but it is clear that what we do not have is more detailed, but it indicates that part of these pensions are related to pensions from international contracts, which is unfortunately about around 150,000, so it is said that they probably also receive some other pensions or have some additional income here, or that those who are users of the lowest pensions because they have had a little internship and a small foundation, and that, of course, it is logical that they have the least salary and part of which is related to we know and agriculture where they have also paid small amounts, so that they were relatively small and therefore the truth works, but they are large numbers, but they are based on the real paid rather than because someone has made some political decision that they would have less because they originate or come from agriculture or some foreign pension. Of course, what should be praised once again is the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and what is crucial to all, which is that unconditional audit reports are safe when seen even though billions are concerned and debates about the financial expenditures of the Pension Insurance Institute. When we talk about the banking and payment services here from 2012 to 90 million kuna, there is a sign that from 2013 it has been built much more rationally, that certain services have been signed, that Internet banking has started to be used to reduce these services, 90 million kuna are not really small amounts that go for postal, banking services and regardless of the total budget of 36 billion. But this way of working and accessing the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obviously an example of other and institutions and agencies covering with the OIB, compliance, urgency in handling, extremely large number and cases that solve and very quickly and very fast is an up-to-date killing of indicators by other agencies in the public administration information equipment system, so that when they want and act in an appropriate and efficient way in the public administration they can be effective and therefore once again commended for their work in 2012 and, of course, on behalf of the HNS Club, I support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70219	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Gold shower. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70220	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Gjurkovic, I agree with you. In 2012, there was a two-time pension adjustment and it was done. But if we take the report and look at the pensions, then 570,000 pensioners receive a pension of up to 2 thousand kuna and 330,000 to 1500 kuna. I believe you will agree with me that these are amounts that are very difficult to secure some decent life in retirement. 570,000 pensioners with such small pensions in a very awkward situation are bound to settle their expenses, their diet and not to say a decent life in retirement. And probably if they don’t have children who will take care of their parents or if they don’t have one of their relatives that can hardly meet all obligations from the beginning to the end of the month. That's why this situation that we're warning is that there's more and more poor people out there, and there's more and more people digging through containers to survive at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70221	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70222	Dear colleagues cannot disagree with you which is something reasonable, logically we all know that these are not any more unfortunately new figures in some increase in the number of pensions that are up to 1500 kuna or 2000 kuna not to mention those up to 500 kuna. I think we're all aware and it should be made clear that the best social programme, the economic programme because the fact that someone has made a low pension because for a few years he worked, has he been paying for a agricultural pension, has he worked somewhere but also achieved a small part of the pension is something that results from certain work and real payments for his pension. In order for us to ensure a better quality of life, there are programs that are on a local level, but also state-level on social matters. But what is crucial in any case is that we, and I believe that you will support it when we discuss the Labour Act, to ensure that as many citizens as possible and even that part of the pensioner is involved in work processes. Because it's often heard, many have retired, and they have a lot of experience, knowledge, energy and will to work. These people need to be assured to help younger people with their experience and to contribute to themselves if work is not just work for existence. What we forget is often only about numbers, we discuss whether more or less salary or higher or less pension, doing something that is man's dignity and man's pleasure primarily regardless of whether he's young or old.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70223	Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70224	Thank you very much. A fellow Gjurkovic is an interesting situation, I worked as a doctor and general practice and as a surgeon how many people wanted through medical findings etc. Shorten your working life and retire. Today, colleague Tušak asks you and determines the number of those who have small pensions that are huge. But it's an interesting job to retire. And then when I sent to the commission, I worked in Bosnia on a disability commission in Sarajevo to assess the overall ability and disability and to get my patient back to Bosnian Nova and says doctors I retired. So how when you have we're broken teeth. She says I've been taken into retirement by a cow. I hope that's not the way we're going to go with that future center of medical expertise, but that's how it went. And there was a lot of pressure to retire in that country as well as in this independent, independent Croatian state. And now look, the employment ratio by pensioner ratio is the main ratio by which pensions are decided and pension quality etc. Look, today Ireland has a 1:3,6 ratio, Netherlands 1:3, Czech Republic 1:79, Germany 1:61, and Croatia 1:1,2 approximately. There are still Romania and Bulgaria in the system. As long as we're on our way to any of your strategic so-called. An investment that has not yet been announced for half a year, as long as we don't have the number of employees so full of pension funds that, through their pension payments, there's no happiness in full pension funds, so far we'll have 16, 17 help from the Treasury and maybe several billion kunas along with those contributions. The reduction in the collection of money from the state budget can only come from the Treasury if we increase the number of employees who will then be filling pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70225	Thank you. Answer, colleague Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70226	I agree with you fellow, that's what I was saying about increasing the number of employees. I also mentioned the Labour Act in a particular segment that must ensure that the number of people can work. But you mentioned in my reply replicas to my discussion of disability pension. You compared the number of workers compared to the number of pensioners of certain EU countries, and it would be interesting for a colleague, and I believe that you will agree with me that we see little about how many disability pensions are in Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands compared to old or family, so that perhaps we can see how much we are compared to them in plus or minus, how we have done it over the past 20 years and how we are essentially people who are well able to work. Because this report says the average internship, the number of years in the disability pension of our citizens, is 23. So they are in the best years on average, then they are in the working element to contribute to the development of Croatia and it would be interesting to see how these figures are compared to European countries or these transition countries that have entered the European Union. I'm guessing we don't have a game with numbers like that in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70227	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Silvano Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70228	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honoring the principal with his assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, here in this assembly, there is often a debate about the pension system, and especially the Generational solidarity system with financial sustainability positions, but something very important is forgotten. In fact, we're talking, today we have a report from an institution that exists in these premises for 92 years. Since the age of 92, this institution has built a lot of what we enjoy today, what we enjoyed and what was sold out. So there were times when eight security guards worked for one pensioner and HZMO was full of money like a boat. He could and could have worked and built up and resorts and homes of pensioners and health homes and protection workshops and given grants and loans with small interest rates to the economy and at that time which Mr. Popiac called inexplicable time, and I just remind myself that in the 1970s, our Croatia had the strongest engineering chamber in these areas and could take every job anywhere in the world. And we're just laughing, but we had it, and we blew it. It's our art, we're really talented to destroy. I stand in defense of this institution, this vital old man, this institution that is not a state institution but a public institution, this property that has still remained in HZMO which is not and cannot be state property, however much someone wanted to take it for a reason because it was paid by the contribution of the workers of Croatia, by the contribution of the workers, and the contribution of gentlemen, my personal contribution is not something else, it goes from my gross salary. Therefore, there is an important difference between state institutions and HZMO, which is a public institution. We love to talk and talk all the time about the consequences of the violation of a pension system. I am telling you that outside HZMO there are no experts, even among us who know the pension systems of Western Europe, to which we often refer and whom we like to see other systems. There are no people who know more about social agreements than they do, and the question is, would our system of generation solidarity look what it looks like right now to be respected by the word profession? I'm asking you to respect the word of the profession whether both military insurance and police officers and defenders would be in the same system and would it happen in one year an increase of 50,000 disability pensions, in particular I'm talking about 1999. Probably if you respected your waist, you wouldn't. We can't return time, but we can't blame for the current state of the pension system for those who have done it fairly for years, who have created their right, no matter how high or low, but the fact is that they've been paying contributions and building up this society and now we're coming to a situation where society in the budget has to do something and we have to pay it back, and we have to do it in a solid way. How do we stand it? It's nice that we've turned 5 billion into individual accounts, creating with younger citizens of Croatia an illusion that personal savings will improve their overall pension. This can happen for those who work 40 years above average pay. This can happen that their two - pillar pension will be bigger than one. But all of them, and there are more than 70% of the employees in the Republic of Croatia who have an average salary of less than the average gross salary, are very questionable that their pension from two and even three pillars will be higher than on the basis of generation solidarity. But 5 billion missing Minister Linic, 5 billion here are accused of generation solidarity of paying more from the budget, and 5 billion went to individual accounts. And we're not asking for the elimination of that second pillar, we at HSU just said that let's review the purpose of that savings. Let's not save that the result would be worse in the finals than from just one pillar of generation solidarity. No more than that. But 5 billion are missing from the system of generation solidarity, because in order for the pensions to pay off those 5 that we've directed at individual accounts, they need to be owed to pay for pensions. And so it's a closed circle. Second, or time comes to an end, and I have to say why we wrote this conclusion that came before you. I would like the Croatian Parliament to accept the conclusion that within about 60 days, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will prepare a single report on the state of their business premises. Although one part of the area where their seats look like they can be seen on the Internet, I'm terribly short of the data as it is and when it was last invested in those spaces because these spaces provide certain services to our citizens. I am very interested in whether these spaces are on the third floor without an elevator where older citizens and people with disabilities must climb up, or whether it is ground floor without architectural barriers so that citizens can simply come for specific advice, service or solve their problem. I certainly know that there are, therefore, our facilities, insurance facilities and pensioners of the Republic of Croatia in which nothing has been invested for years, where the roofs are missing and where the working conditions are very, very bad that I do not say impossible. I appreciate that my colleague Gjurkovic said that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has responded to everything that has been passed on to him by new legislation in the information sense, that he has responded to citizens' demands but know I have not seen in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for many years an item to strengthen the information system of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. For many years, this item has not been seen as one more serious item, and this system probably has its limitations. I'm sure when you go through with the calculation and statistical processing requirements along the way and across that it will come to an end because it's simply dimensioned in one way or another, I say again, it has its limitations. Of course, although this happened later at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and with a small number of workers and with office hours per field office, it provides service to citizens and I think it is worth commending. Because in the end we, and we consider ourselves even though we are elected officials, let us consider ourselves to be ordinary citizens and ordinary insurance companies, we must take care of our Croatian Pension Insurance Office, because I personally view it as our own, as part of my property. And it is our duty to take care of him, for he has in many ways entrusted the citizens of this land. We can put our heads in the sand, we can ignore a lot of facts, but elementary honesty requires that we in some way appreciate what the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has done for Croatian citizens, at the service it gives to Croatian pensioners. And in any case, the Croatian Party of Retirement and I will personally support this Report and, of course, help in every context of the Croatian Institute to advance its business and we will be their firm support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70229	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70230	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you when you talk about the quality of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. But it may not have occurred to anyone long ago to include it in the budget, perhaps today they would have seen a clear situation in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, Table 8 if I were not wrong on page 11 – pensions under special regulations that should generally be secured in the national budget and then have a clear picture that is paid on the basis of solidarity savings from pensions, which is paid by someone who has passed some regulation that belongs to someone. And then maybe someone who suggested some things that are unreasonable wouldn't have come forward to suggest it. However, it was of interest to someone to make this jumbus, so when this jumbus today is making a problem and pushing us to the extent of the excessive deficit, and here I am primarily thinking about health care and the Croatian Health Insurance Office, and now the jumbus after 11 years wants to fix it. Maybe even with retirement, regardless of what happened and the consequences of war and privatisation and everything that led us to a million and 200,000 pensioners wouldn't have happened if we had a clear picture on the one hand we're paying for it, and we have to pay it out of the budget because someone has passed such a regulation. And then you'd probably think differently, and then you'd agree with me that that sentence in the report that today we're feeling the consequences of baby boom from the '40s and '50s, something that's costing us today, that when it comes to pensions that we always have to think about what's going on and what happened years ago, and what's going on in those pensions. Therefore, if someone hadn’t forced something to show the budget to a slightly different one, it probably wouldn’t have been the way it is. As for informing the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, you cannot see it in the budget. You may have seen it in the financial plan, but only if Mr. Director managed to pardon the minister and give it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70231	Thank you. We have an answer from a colleague named Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70232	It's certainly been some of them innovating there in 2000 to move to the State Treasury, but before that, some of the huge assets of 25% of all companies also gave a lot of ease to people's management, and after that, big damages occurred. So, of course, I'm not amnesting any government. In doing so, it was only in walking that he sat down and cried that we understood each other. As far as you're concerned, you've pulled the parallel to HZZO at the same time, but you'll remember that HSU has suggested that HZO has its original incomes and that the insurance assembly is formed and that it manages HZO and that these conclusions are accepted in this House of Commons. So, I don't want to make this a lot of controversy about it because I say there were mistakes on one side and on the other, but of course what you said about this principal is also about the one before the principal, and the one before the principal, if he's had a crush on himself, then he's got some pin for reinforcements to express the information equipment, but I'm just appealing that it's an emergency, that it should be raised to a higher level because citizens deserve a better and better service. They really try as hard as they can, but the system still has its limitations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70233	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70234	Thank you very much. My colleague Hrelj, it is clear to me not only from this exhibition but in general from your actions and from your party's actions that you know the matter well. You're not about matter itself, we're in the debate today no one's like you said judging for this, no one said against the institution anything. We've been discussing what's written in this, about the possibilities, we've tried to be constructive, about the possibilities, the ways, the ways, and you've brought out one of the roads in relation to the second pillar and those 5 billion kunas, but we've been making suggestions, so no one's convicted here, I haven't, we can be all witnesses that no one has condemned the work of the Pension Insurance Institute system that you tell the 92-year-old who still exists, who's gonna stick to it, I hope so, and so do you. About the fact that in the budget of the Republic of Croatia almost every ministry, in every office, in every office, institution, the Institute has increased the amount of money to improve the information system, it is absolutely correct and we can see it in the 2014 budget only well that you noticed that in the Pension Insurance Office it is therefore not increased and it is very important that information in the pension insurance system is very important precisely for those reasons that I spoke about, not belonging to pensions, the finding of the OIB and all other data which can then be handled in order not to happen. I support your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70235	Thank you. My colleague Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70236	Thank you very much. I am extremely pleased that, sometimes by some topics and we agree, let's continue to discuss the topics in a healthy sense by looking into the facts in the eyes, we will come to a lot of concrete conclusions and better decisions and better laws because, as one political analyst here says, the place where emotions should be at the last stage and in the first place there should be arguments and arguments on the basis of the arguments discussed here in this High House in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70237	And the last replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70238	Thank you very much. You were talking about the second pension pillar, and now you've mentioned the arguments, the arguments not only that they should be in the debates, the arguments should be the most important in making a legal proposal. And what arguments were made in 2002 when so-called Retirement reform brings. It was more of a belief than an argument. Let's do it, so we believe it'll bring something good. It's been ten years and it turns out it didn't do any good. This means that there are no arguments missing and there is no long-term thinking, there is no analysis, there is no systematic approach and you have confirmed yourself that it was not a reform then because it did nothing good. And the law would have to be fair. I had this privilege that I could choose whether to enter another pension column or not, and I didn't sign it, I trust the state more than a private person in a situation like this. The state is still fairer to me than any privateer. I had this opportunity, but it was a possibility, and what if we were to talk about justice, that the separation of the second pension column should not necessarily be made into a private pension fund, but rather a savings in a business bank that should not be touched until retirement, and I would choose that because I would choose a lower risk and a lower contribution and I would avoid a high risk and possibly high yield, and here there was a high risk and a small contribution. That's what it showed. We experiment on the Croatian people. And that's inadmissible. And who has the risk? It has only a member of the fund, no risk, no compulsory pension fund or fund management company. For all the benefits, there's no investment in anything they don't ask anyone, what's their contribution not to ask, how much they've ruined money they're not responding to, what's going on? 5 billion invested in failed companies and nothing to anyone, at least to make Bajic work than he doesn't go to those companies there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70239	My colleague Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70240	Dear colleague Maric, I just have to remind you that the pension reform from 2002 was based on the Pension Insurance Act of 1998 when my colleague Tušak and I were still in the union and when we expected in the autumn a broad public debate on the new Pension Insurance Act, of course which was lagging behind in a good old manner of passing the law 15.7. at the last moment of 1998. So we know a lot about this system. So these are the tasks that one government and another government carried out, all of which is the World Bank's experiment, or World Bank's recipe. So I fully agree with you or in the greatest part of your exposure that are risks, which would rather be etc. But it's too late today. Today we can only say the underline, this is worth the system we cannot bring down because it is the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And taking it means nationalizing, means doing something that has already been done in a very bad way. We can only ask citizens to define themselves on the offer of rights and the choice of rights and ownership, and we have little room for manoeuvre. But you know you're studying the budget and everything else, and it's very interesting to say that other than the 5 billion that go, they don't come into generational solidarity, they go to individual accounts, when it spins over the bonds, you still pay 2.5 billion kuna a year. So the transition cost is not 4 billion because that money is used to service state spending there are additional 2.5 billion interest. Is that enough reason, and every year times 10 years, so count on how it gradually grows. Well, isn't that enough reason to react, but the way we said and agreed, the arguments. Math on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70241	Time. Thank you, too. And final address of the director of the office Srecko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70242	Thank you very much. I won't bother you much longer, it was really a comprehensive debate from about half one here now it's already been five hours so with a small interruption and it was very interesting. Not about the state of the system and about the system, I think it's a terrible lot of things said and a lot of it is good and most of it I could agree with as a director. As far as I'm concerned, maybe I should start with this last proposal and the conclusion that the Parliament should therefore be asked to vote, is related to our report on the state of our premises and our assets, of course I can support it and we'll do it within 60 days. My previous name was Mile, I don't know how he went by the former minister of Shucker's name, and I'm Lucky, so we'll see how we'll get through, yeah, we'll see what it looks like in the end. The fact is that we're talking about 2012 our expenditure on capital expenditure, so not financial assets are reduced from 17 million to 6 million kuna, so 30% are reduced. From that we rerouted 70% almost into information, considering it as a key and important development of information, and then you see how little there is left to invest in our facilities, and here I fully agree. I do not know how much we will be able to get in the context of cookies and rebalances in 2014 but that our premises in a number of regional offices and services are in a state that is not satisfactory for our users' access to services, and insurance and pensioners, and that our people agree very well, committed and professionally doing business in very inappropriate conditions should come into our premises and see how badly 4.5 people do in one room as much as they try and move on to information business, the problem remains space. Maybe just a few more sketches, a witch contest, we're repeating something we've been doing more successfully lately, but we're still missing almost a quarter of the experts in the office. If and when it is founded on 1.1.2015. most likely this unique body of art I hope that then there will be more happiness, here if happiness can be in that part at all something to talk about. Professional training, there were speeches, so in 2012 we prepared no people in 2013.We had people on vocational training, they showed excellent 70 people, some of them are still under way, this year we'll take others and prove to be a very good solution. We hope, of course, that the Government has made a decision on restrictive employment, and we hope that part of that staff can be preserved and kept in the Pension Insurance Office. So when it comes to pensioning and showing pensions on our website, that wheel spins and you can see all these data and of course there are data on classical statistical information and report. We tried to embarrass it. There have been speeches on the national council on this, and I believe that in the next debate that will be on the national council, we will define those statistical exits which the pensioners want to see and then all the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we have nothing against it. The statistics of the institute is that you see from this report really comprehensive and only if we fail at the next elections to change our mind, Mr. Schemper, I invite him to come to us as chief statistician in the office, is he really running fantastic statistics for years and many data, and then we pull back or we think about it the way he does it, so thank him very much. As far as child support is concerned, we agree and go in that direction although there have been a number of earlier attempts, so earlier years are going in that direction to move the allowance for children from the institution to another institution. What's about child care if we're already talking about it, and the report is the institution characteristic it's a system that needs to be changed as well. We run 250 thousand procedures every year, it is indeed within a few months very short time to make these solutions and there is a great burden in the work of the institute and I think the whole system should make it much more rational, more efficient and, of course, strengthen the controls in such a system of approval of these social rights. Mail payments. Since 1.1.2014 we have further reduced the price I talked about in the report, which was reduced from 2254 to 1092 in 2012, from 1.1.2014. this price is 20 kuna per leaflet, which should cut even more costs by mail. And maybe in the end I'll just say that my colleagues from these other institutions know how to say that you're a pessimist, you have to go to the Parliament every year, and we at the Employment Office, the Health Insurance Office, we don't have that, we deal with it with the government, and we're done. On the contrary, I think I'm very lucky, here's Happy and every director of the Institute that can present to you everything the Bureau does, get commendation from you as we have now received when we present this report, but also open up questions about the state of the pension system that is certainly a matter that I need a general consensus in the state that could be resolved at all. Thank you very much and until next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70243	Thank you, too, dear director of the Croatian Institute. We've got two lines reported. Dear Representative Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70244	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, so we at the SDSS Club will accept this report anyway, we think it was well done and we think that this institution should be kept very carefully. However, what I have to say is why I'm replicating you in some way and in this report and the previous reports of your predecessors, I believe those we're going to get, we'll never touch the subject of a group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia until '91. were pensioners, who regularly paid in the Mirovinski Fund funds as well as everyone and they were unilaterally at the Peace Institute in '91. Cancelled retirement until '97. A year. We can now have a debate here on legal grounds for payment or not, the fact is that 20 thousand such pensioners are looking for 81 demands. It is also the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said in its 2011-2015 plan, among other things, that it will take into account the problem of these citizens who, even though they regularly paid in pension funds, did not receive pensions for a certain period of time and in agreement with the damaged, will consider ways of compensation. So it's all a matter of more or less political will. The fact is, I repeat, that such a large number of people have been suspended for a certain period and certain acquired rights that they have according to all the positive regulations and international acts. Many have already died, that number has been significantly higher. I'm afraid as long as we show the political will to deal with it, these will die.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70245	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70246	Mr. Director, Mr. Vukovic. I'll only refer to your findings that you've done a rationalization in business. This is obvious, especially in the costs of the organisation of work, progress is visible and therefore should be congratulated. I'm only interested in the reason why the expenditure on financial expenditure has increased rapidly from planned 60 to 90 million kuna. I don't know what's behind that increase in financial expenses, so if you can explain it to me. And as far as you're concerned, you're talking about business terms, whoever ever stepped into the retirement office's rooms will see that these are the most modest conditions in which valuable and professional people work. It may be a shame for anyone who works at a state agency to go there and be ashamed of what conditions they sit in, and in which directors of certain unnecessary agencies work. And it's only enough to see a director's office that's the same for 20 years, 24 years, so there's no more modest office in the state institution, and it doesn't supply it with fruit, or vegetables, or new secretaries, always the same. And that's how it's supposed to work, that's an example of modesty. I've also seen here about solving demands, so I'd like to make one note. It is often the case that pension institutions are being sued for solutions. After accepting a complaint from the Administrative Court, the pension issue is again the same solution. I think after the decision of the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court, there is too much risk of being exposed to the pension institution by issuing the same solutions because it is subject to the possibility of new complaints, lawsuits and tightening interest, so I don't know what the reason for such treatment is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70247	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Time's up. Dear Marić, it would be convenient to hear what your office is like in the Croatian Parliament. ... Replication response, respected director of the office. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, dear Sredko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70248	Thank you for the modesty of space, I agree with you. As far as the High Court's verdict was concerned, there were cases of that kind, unfortunately. We can't have them, so we'll see what they're working on in any particular case. They should not take place under any legal responsibility and thus to the legal system in the country at all. So the first year of law school learns this, the judgment of the High Administrative Court is a law for... for the Pension Insurance Act. Even though it was, it won't be anymore. As for 60 and 90, so it came to terms with the rebalancing of the plan. First, the plan was at 60 million because it was planning to amend the Pension Insurance Act already at the time with a reduction in costs. So in those 90 million 85 or 85 million kunas are mail costs, and the rest are part of the bank. These mail costs were planned much lower since the amendments to the law had already been planned. So there's no payout for the new pensioners. What has now been passed since 1.1.2014 with the new Pension Insurance Act. It is already planned for 2000 and in 2012. Since it's not then the costs have been increased, the rebalancing has increased the plan from 60 to 90 million as much as they really are. Costs were a year earlier and higher. They seemed to me 104 million. So they've been reduced, or 108 million. They're down from 198 to 90. I've talked about this before as a reduction in the cost of financial services.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70249	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate and the replicas. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70250	Work and business report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2012 The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership as a parent working body, I give the following conclusion: "A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2012 is accepted". Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the lock was passed with 84 votes for and 28 abstentions. Work report, sorry. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to submit to the Croatian Assembly a report on the state of business of its offices, offices and offices within 60 days of the date of adoption of the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2012. The report should contain information on the working conditions of employees, on investment investment and maintenance, and on the adjustment of access to spaces for persons with disabilities and elderly persons." Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. We accepted this conclusion unanimously with 110 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70251	And now we are going to - Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2012 The Reporter is the Agency for Electronic Media based on Article 66, 67. The law on electronic media. You received the report by mail. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament – the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the motionary want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Mirjana Rakic, director of the Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You will be presented with a report on the work of the Agency for Electronic Media and the Council for the year 2012. The Council for Electronic Media as an independent and independent regulatory body in the field of electronic media was founded in 2003 on the principles and experience of European regulatory practice. The draft Council therefore seeks to implement the professional values arising from the basic Croatian and European legislative documents governing the space of electronic media. Electronic media within the responsibility of the Electronic Media Agency are divided into three groups. The first is traditional radio and television publishers who publish their programs via earth’s transmitters. In addition to HRT, 25 television publishers who publish 29 programs and 147 radio publishers who publish 149 programmes are active on the market. The second group is media service providers who publish their radio and television programs via the Internet, cable or satellite. It is 29 programmes or provide services at the request of 9 providers. The third group are electronic publications, editorially designed software content published daily or periodically via the Internet by electronic publications providers for the purpose of public information and education. That's what 112 are listed. The Agency has been a member of the European Association of National Regulators since 2005 with the aim of exchanging regulatory practice... The President is a member of the Council, the vice-president of this association is a member of our Council, Damir Hajduk, and since 2012 the Mediterranean network of regulatory authorities. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] The Agency shall be a member of the Information and Media Committee of the Council of the EU, and of the European Audio-visual Observatory. In accordance with the implementation of the Audio-visual Media Services Directive, the Council and the Agency are actively involved in the work of the European Commission General Administration in charge of audio-visual and media policy. In 2012, the Council held 67 sessions and processed more than 1000 different cases and decided for them. It has awarded one concession to carry out the activities of television and 6 concessions to carry out radio activities. It took away two concessions. It is the Capital Network and the National Network Kotoriba, while the non-profit radio OS Stjepan Cvrković from Mikanovac returned the concession. 38 new providers of electronic publications have been registered in the register and 11 permits have been given for the provision of media services via cable, internet, satellite and one service permit on request. The Council shall ensure supervision of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations, namely monitoring, which shall be carried out directly and indirectly. In 2012, a total of 163400 hours of radio and television programmes were recorded. Of which 93360 hours of television and 70080 hours of radio. 24 warnings, 10 infringements and 4 warnings were issued in 2012 following surveillance and infringements. 301 subject was processed, 145 based on complaints of citizens or legal persons individually top HRT 36, RTL and NOVA television of 20. In the process of analysis of ownership structures, the obligation to supply ownership data to the level of the natural person who entered into force in January 2013 was introduced. And with two radio publishers Croata d.o.o., National Radio and Family D.o.o., Antena was made a decision to coordinate the ownership structure. Special attention shall be paid to the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of media, radio and television programmes on which the right to participate in the competition shall be given to all broadcasters of television and radio at local and regional level, as well as audiovisual and radio programmes of non-profit television and radio broadcasters. Since state aid is involved in intensive communication with the Competition Protection Agency, which approves the Fund's programme, there have been ways to improve this support institute, for the production of audio and audio visual programmes. In 2012, the Council discussed 2 tenders for the allocation of funds to the Fund. The decisions on the allocation of funds in 2012 amounted to €36 million for a thousand 446 emissions. Of these, 19 million kuna TV publishers for 285 shows and radio publishers 16 million 407 thousand for a total of 1161 shows. I'm sorry if I made a mistake on TV 19 million not 19 grand. In the 2011 case-law process carried out in the 12th year, an external, financial audit was carried out by eight publishers who did not establish irregularities for the use of funds. In the process of justice, 466 thousand 759 kunas were returned for emissions that were not realised or not fully spent. In accordance with the Law on HRT, the Council on Electronic Media acted in the following cases during 2012. At the request of the HRT Supervisory Board, it issued a decision on the prior authorisation of the amount of the fee for 2012. It also approved the Programme Council and the HRT administration on a proposal for a Regulation on how to determine, content, text, programme obligations of the HRT and maintain a public debate of the HRT. It has reached a solution to grant approval to only the regulatory act, the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The control of the use of State aid charges will be possible through the introduction of accounting separation on HRT which, given the temporary nature of the HRT administration during the 12th year, is slowed down. And what I would like to add, and this is the Council for Electronic Media, with an annual work programme for 13 years, set further priorities for its work which will continuously contribute to the development of society, the protection of pluralism of electronic media and the diversity of content. Ensuring a level playing field for all media service providers and encouraging production and publication of public value content in such a way as to make it available to as many users in the Republic of Croatia as possible. Finally, co-operation will continue with the working groups of the European Commission, the Council of Europe and the UNESCO Group for the Monitoring of the Information Society and the Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70253	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Do representatives or presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We're going to the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Club and the respected representative of Sunny Glavak. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70254	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Director of Associates, colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the report of the Agency for Electronic Media, I would like to stress that the activities of the sublegal acts of the Agency for Electronic Media in 2012 have been intensified and strengthened. I would also like to refer to the fact that we have been discussing reports for almost two days for 2012, some agencies that no longer exist, we are discussing some bodies that have been abolished in the meantime and we have not discussed, for example, the 2011 HRT report, 12.itd. So, we're very current, so I think I said it all. As a result, when we return to the work of the Agency for Electronic Media or the Council, some publishers were dissatisfied, some were satisfied, some had not realised the funds of the Fund, some of the funds had to be returned and I immediately question whether they had done so, of course, to the presidents of the Council. On the other hand, this very treatment of the Council has affected the raising of the overall quality and quantity of the co-financed programme, which we know how to call, a programme of general interest. As we discuss the 2012 report, colleagues and colleagues must know that 25% of publishers are in serious difficulties, some TV and radio stations have already been shut down, some are in pre-profit deals and are reduced by 20% by introducing new users of the fund, so I will remind only non-profit media and electronic publications. In addition, some publishers and gave up the concession, a dozen of them probably all because of these inability to finance their employees and so on. The Council of Electronic Media will only return a little last year, have drafted and adopted a new Regulation on concession charges because it is extremely important that it has finally corrected the more annual injustice by which the publishers have twice paid the same right. Today, the current regulation contributes significantly to the preservation of jobs and equates publishers in Croatia with publishers in the environment. However, what is particularly to be pointed out is that the Council has done well by opposing the intentions of the Resolute Ministry of Culture, and I would particularly like to commend the council in which it is no longer in which it was Mr. Leftk at the head of the council, which is therefore the Ministry of Culture, is, by means of a regulation of the Pluralism and diversity of electronic media, insinuating the introduction of a provision whereby the independent regulator of electronic media would, therefore, adopt a regulation with the previous consent of the political regulator, that is, the Ministry of Culture. It's a good thing the council didn't agree to that because of this, of course, any independence of the council would be lost, and that would only be done at the request of the political body. One more thing, not least, would play the EU's or EU legislator's intention. Imagine what was wanted, therefore, that politics would decide what the council would be responsible for. As regards the election of members of the Council of Electronic Media and the prescribed restrictions, following this almost ten-year practice since the elections were held, the unique position is the Association of Televisions, so NUT and Hurin Radio Association, that in a small country such as Croatia, which still lacks a large enough base of those who would meet the limits, it may not be effective to change members of the Council for Electronic Media, because only when they succeed in getting into trouble or knowing what they are doing deeper into what their job is, but then they must leave. So that's something we leave to think about, of course, first of all to the legislator of the Ministry of Culture, not expecting much, because for years we have been expecting a media strategy that is constantly being promised and not coming. Similarly, since it is prescribed that members of the Electronic Media Council cannot have family or business ties in electronic media, the members of the Electronic Media Council from printed media or technical professions are consequently not the aim of the legislator when the law was passed. Perhaps the solution could be sought in accordance with existing councils at the Ministry of Culture, so members of cultural councils or something like that. We cannot ignore the fact that what the Ministry of Culture is systematically doing as a competent ministry, it is that we have strange staffing and so is the last appointment of the current director, Mrs. Rakic, who retired in January so that after that she would probably be credited to the head of the Council for Electronic Media, and I wonder if we could find some young and politically similar person, if you want a colleague of Dragovan, who would be the head of the council. As a particularly burning question, the amount of broadcasting fees is raised, and we believe that the Council for Electronic Media should be empowered and tasked with urgently finding a solution to the broadcasting fee. In the last 6 months, 2 TV stations have been shut down, 5 of them are in the pre-fashion settlement process, and the remaining ones still working owe to Transmitters and multi-month broadcasting bonds with the prospect of experiencing the fate of the aforementioned ones. The reason is always the same, non-payment and unreally high broadcasting fees to the state-owned company Transmitters and Connections. At the time of analogue broadcasting, local televisions owned their own transmitters and broadcast their own program. The introduction of digital broadcasting has brought an improvement to everyone except what we know to call them locals. Local TV stations from the former minimum share in broadcasting costs today should pay 7.5 million kunas and connections annually. Such a level of local TV costs are not able to settle and this is the main reason for today's alarming situation. The analysis of the reasons and solutions in the environment, for example, indicates the following, in Croatia the cost of broadcasting fees for national TV houses is about 2.5% to 3% in the total revenue generated. At the same time, up to 18% of regional and local TV houses contracted compensation, depending on the performance of certain TV stations, but on average it moves around 10%. It would be concluded that the problem is systemically and that it is not about the ability or incompetence of local TV stations. If we look only at the neighborhood, then we'll discover the illogicalities I mentioned. Only a brief crackdown, so in Italy regional and local TV stations had a 60-day deadline within which they declared whether they wanted to set up their own digital transmitters. Most have done so but the state has made a commitment that a part of the capacity remaining after the broadcast of its own TV program becomes the owner of a digital transmitter must give in to the searcher, the tenant or any other TV station. In doing so, the highest and lowest fee that the digital transmitter holder may charge for the TV set to which part of the capacity has been allocated is prescribed. So the illogicalities are numerous, for example in Slovenia three regional TV stations broadcast digitally earthly via transmitters in the state television system, and the remaining 6 TV stations could set up their own digital transmitters on state television facilities. So as most European countries, Slovenia and Croatia did not provide funding to regional television as a grant for the cost of switching to digital terrestrial broadcasting. It should have been because that transition we must be aware of didn't require television itself. The decision in that case in other countries in the environment was taken by the State. The transition in a new way of broadcasting also meant new costs, while at the same time increasing the number of media players on the advertiser market, revenues are getting smaller and new costs are being prescribed. Perhaps it would be a good model for Slovenia in both part of Slovenia and Croatia, the transmitters are the legacy of the former joint investment, and they are not newly built as in some EU countries. It might be a good idea to settle the bill or the cost of broadcasting at the expense of the State. Of the analogue frequencies used by locals, the state will be arriving within 10 years of about a billion kuna. 10% of that amount is enough to cover all local broadcasting costs for the next 10 years to its company, so senders and links, or at least to reduce the obligations to Transmitters and Links, i.e. Transmitters and links to HACOM or the State, and to create conditions for reducing the compensation for broadcasting to local or regional TV stations. It's a reminder of the amount of about 7.5 million kuna a year. The Council for Electronic Media, the Ministry of Culture, HACOM, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Transmitters and Connections themselves have also warned about the above for several months, and they are all in principle in agreement with the assessment that something needs to be changed systematically, but they are all declaring incompetent. So when we find the competent one by that time, maybe another radio or TV station in Croatia will be turned off. In financial terms, it is important to highlight with the shutting down of some stations a hundred people ended up at the employment office, lost salary or salary fees, and the compensation that the state will pay for the laid-offs, and after the digitisation of national TV stations still brought some savings of 20 million kuna per year under each programme, I remind ourselves that after the Ministry of Finance reduced, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia reduced VAT to the printed media, so many have helped us in the media space, so there are local radio and TV stations left, and we are wondering if we're just going to watch what's going on around them or we can also do something like that. I also remind you that it is important for everyone to have local television and radio stations operating in our city, in our county, and that we all need to and talk about our work on these radios or TV stations, so imagine that we are equally not responding when they need our help. The first opportunity for a solution might be to open up offers for a digital dividend on which the state budget will receive around 225 million kunas in concessions, sometimes using analogue frequencies, and according to some information currently in HACOM stands, of course conditionally speaking, 90 million kunas on the account, and I wonder why there may be no compensation for Transmitters and Liaisons and to consider the amount of compensation as soon as possible. We've already heard in the introduction that everything from the Pluralism Facility has been allocated and how much money, so over 36 million kuna. Monitoring was carried out over the program, but as every year we warn and look unsatisfactory at the fact that only 6 employees monitor or monitor around 670-680 hours of TV. Moreover, daily violations of the Law on Electronic Media have been seen, as we have also warned as representatives, from the report. And I'm only going to give you one example from last year that I hope will be found in the report or was monitored. Someone might say it's selfish of us to point ourselves out, but I'm going to give an example of where the MPs were when we were on the summer break, Mr. President, and we told you then, called it a cattle going on vacation. So we'll see if something's been done and what the sanctions really were. And two more details, in 2012, a new form was adopted to register the ownership structure of media service providers and insight into the ownership structure was much more detailed, but the problem had not been solved for a long time was to respect the law on electronic media that violates precisely those who should be an example of law enforcement or law enforcement. Therefore, according to the law, only a brief reminder, the authorities of the state administration and other beneficiaries of the budget are obliged to spend 15% of the annual amount intended for the promotion of their services or activities in broadcasting in radio or TV programmes of local publishers and to report to the Council. 26 users of course did not do so, each year there are several of them, including the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, foreign and European affairs, internal affairs, environmental and nature protection, and some state offices. I warn the council that there is no possibility of sanctions and it is inadmissible that out of more than 4 million kunas the authorities of the state administration spent on advertising, they did not spend in accordance with the law. And finally, I just want to praise the analysis of the TV market produced by the agency where all the parameters that point to trends in television industry, sustainability of the business models of financing and so on are shown. The HDZ Club will support the report, with all these remarks we have had and which we will hear in further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70255	We have club replicas at the club's point of view. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70256	Thank you very much, President. It's a personal replica, not a club. I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70257	I want you to make a deal at the club if she's a colleague on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70258	Yeah, yeah, just, thank you very much. So you mentioned colleagues nicely in your presentation regarding the reports of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT. In almost a month, the government is unable to give an opinion on one of the biggest public enterprises that has income only since the subscription of more than a billion kuna, over 3,000 employees, is extremely important for Croatian society. There's no government opinion. To conclude, the government does not think anything of it, either positively or negatively. As far as the media strategy is concerned, it is partially and fully realised in what we could read in the daily press as a media tax. It was then in the daily press when Honorable colleague Dragovan asked if the ministry had a ministry and I absolutely agree with it, when we could read on the cover of the daily newspaper that a new media tax was being introduced, and it was realised that it was in part and this process that the media pluralism fund would be financed by so-called "Pulalism Fund". non-profit media, whatever that means, which should have been linked to the production of content of public interest, not with profit and not profit. We talked about it a lot. Of course not yet, and it's been over two years, there's no media strategy and it won't be so soon, no matter what a special department is formed in the Ministry of Culture where new people are employed to whom it should be an exclusive job. When in this country we give more money for non-profit media, a million kunas more than for full archival activity...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70259	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Mesic's department at the Ministry of Culture works in secret, you probably didn't know that as in secret and so far everything has been done in secret, or it's said under cover and our minister who we can't see here in the Croatian Parliament when any law is proposed. The media strategy is also wrapped in very secret when God knows what will come of us. As far as opinion goes, it's just as unusual. We are constantly warning about this and on committees, on the Committee on Information, Information and Media. However, rather than becoming louder, somehow our voice becomes increasingly quieter, and apparently valuable courts worth media circles or the Ministry of Culture are not equal. Because on the one hand, the media scene is constantly making remarks and probably people aren't doing it out of the air, but simply because they feel they have a problem and what needs to be helped in the media. There was a workshop in the Parliament yesterday or yesterday, so I'm just going to paraphrasing whether we need to teach kids to the media or if we need to ban them from the media. So the media needs this society. They are, of course, our window into the world. They're also here to oversee our work, to report it. However, media must co-operate with a forward ministry or vice versa, and we are obviously in trouble because there is no two-way communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70261	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70262	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Glavak, I have listened very carefully to you and I must admit that most of what you said I fully support. You have made several very good proposals and I assume that Mrs Rakic will take all these proposals into account in further work. But while I mention Mrs. Rakic, I have to remind myself of your words on the board because in a rather unpleasant way you reacted, you showed what I'm sorry for, which is that HDZ is bothered by those people who call things a real name. Or to ease those who have different opinions from you about what happened in the '90s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70263	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70264	I don't know what you wanted to say to a colleague whether I'm bothered by me or by my colleagues at HDZ people who think otherwise. Namely, what I've heard, I'm going to do it again, not to think differently, but I don't know if you think that's how you think it is then that Mrs. Rakic said at the college meeting that it was for her. Francis Tudjman was a criminal or a war criminal. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70265	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70266	Thank you very much, President. Well, fellow Glavak, I wanted to ask you a question because this council is also dealing with the analysis of certain information emissions. I see that by the complaints, etc. Whether it is still measured in our media space is the representation of opposition and authorities in information emissions, our most important informative emissions because it was once a favorite sport. Do we have any relationship with this flow at all, two years? How was it in 2012? Because we remember those times too. This was the most important topic of how many people there were on information emissions. It feels like we're just looking at a position right now. When the prime minister wants an interview he has an interview, when any minister wants to say something everyone has one on one occasion, they are asked questions that are difficult to deal with, etc. Is that still measured? And I wanted to ask if this council could influence the return of some kind of show like Latina? Or that show is no longer needed, because she was dealing with very important issues at some time when she was popular, and suddenly she doesn't need the same Latina anymore. I don't know if you've noticed that many portals are already very skillfully ironing through their own capabilities, the ability to comment below the text. It used to be the same favorite sport. Today it must no longer be written almost under some texts that are very, very important or very much willing to comment on them. A lot of people complain I can't do that anymore. Why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70267	You will receive a reply to the replica of the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, my colleague, I think that according to your replica, you refer to what we see at the public service. So, first of all on HTV, this didn't apply to local TV stations or radio stations. I'm going to say the ratio is 8:1. It's true, research was done. 8:1 for example in favour of ruling and opposition. I'll tell you exactly, I can't find an exact analysis right now, but I'll let you take a look at it. But anyway, what we were talking about. So it is unacceptable that there is no longer two-way communication at the public service, no more shows where you could face political views, where you could hear different opinions. It is not good to speak or represent never in any political space, in any courteous democracy only one side in particular not on public service which, in addition to that, and in accordance with the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with these legal obligations, must do so. Just for illustration. As for the content displayed on HTV, one, so on the first programme, the share of the online policy was almost 19%, and that's the most. But on the other hand, politics is something that's in the field of public service. However, we wonder in what way. And on the other hand, when we look at it, if you see education or science or children or young people it's below 3% or 1% of nature, environmentals, and zero and something, 0.43% unemployment which should actually be the other way around because it's... is our burning topic in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70269	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the SDP club and the respected representative Damir Tomic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70270	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Rakic and members of the council, listen carefully. I'd like to start by reminding myself that we can be happy that it's been a while talking to the media with words with so little teeth. Now it can go harder. The Council for Electronic Media and Electronic Media agencies therefore submitted this report to the Croatian Parliament for 2012 which is detailed and gives an overview of the activities of the Council throughout the year. In some aspects, significant progress can be seen compared to 2011. In 2012, the Council opened a public tender seven times, giving a concession for broadcasting. Out of seven, 6 concessions refer to radio and one to television. In addition, the decision to grant a concession was published in the NN and the Council permanently took two concessions due to non-compliance with the rules and that capital of Net.d.o. as a television publisher and national network d.o.o. as a radio publisher. The Council also drawn up a draft proposal for a Regulation on the obligation, height and method of payment of compensation presented to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance and for the purpose of reducing concession fees. Due to the non-compliance with the rules of individual concessionaries in the public ownership of the council in 2012, 27 warnings were given to publishers, television and radio as a result of this council process adopted in 2012 a new form for the registration of the ownership structure, the media service provider which required them to report the ownership structure to natural persons. In 2012, the Council authorised the provision of audio and audiovisual media services on request pursuant to Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The law for as many as 11 companies. Compared to 2011, the number of media service providers on request and media service providers providing their services via satellite, cable, internet and other permitted transmission forms has increased significantly. In its preparatory actions for the opening of a public tender for the allocation of the Fund for 2012 through intensive contacts with the Competition Agency, the Council worked on the distribution programme of these funds, to promote of course pluralism and diversity of media. Finally, the Council opened two such invitations to tender and adopted a regulation on a fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media introduced by a newspaper in line with state aid requirements. The Council also dealt in 2012 with the programme content of the publishers in accordance with Article 23(5) of the Rules of Procedure on Electronic Media for the change or addition of a programme base relating to more than 10% of its content on the basis of which the concession, television or radio editor, is to obtain the prior consent of the Council for Electronic Media. In total, 23 such analyses related to the programming or programming scheme were made, of which eight were related to television and 15 radio publishers. The Council agreed on the basis of five requests from television and eight requests from radio publishers. For the purpose of monitoring the implementation of the programme principles and obligations provisions, a total of 163 400 hours of radio and television programmes were recorded, compared to 2011 which was 157 600 hours of the programme slightly higher and, at the same time, independent of continuous recording, 17 television programs and radio channels were recorded at different levels and programme orientations. Also in 2012 140 cases were processed on the basis of complaints from citizens or other institutions. 24 warnings, 4 warnings and 10 infringements were brought by the Council in 2012 following the surveillance and infringements carried out. The report also states that the Council also exercised control over the implementation of the HRT Act and, at the request of the HRT Supervisory Board, issued a decision on the prior authorisation of the amount of aid for the 2012 fee and gave approval to the Programme Council and Administration of the HRT that the proposal for a Regulation on the method of determining the content and text of the programme commitments of the HRT and the maintenance of the public debate of the HRT and adopted a decision on the granting of approval to the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report also cites good co-operation with public and state authorities of the Republic of Croatia and international co-operation as well as with previous years at international meetings, meetings and workshops such as a bilateral meeting of representatives of the Electronic Media Council with the Director-General of the BIH Communications Regulatory Agency. Finally, the report also includes a financial report by the Council on Electronic Media, which includes detailed accounts of the revenues and expenditure of the electronic media agency, the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media and digital television in Southeast Europe. And finally, there was a lot of talk here about public television and too little talk about local television and radio stations and local media where the influence of politics is far greater than in what we want to see now when it comes to HRT. I don't think the council has dealt with this problem enough, and I hope that in the coming years, he will particularly address this problem because many local media are under the direct control of local powers. Finally, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70271	Thank you too, dear colleague. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative of Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Tomic, you were actually talking about improving the council on electronic media and praising it in your report. It's obviously only you see it, but I'll tell you today's information from the portal. It's about media freedom indices of reporters without borders... for 2013, which says state broadcasting and HRT are under fire for lack of independence following reforms under the government of their centre, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The head of HRT, members of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council are now appointed by Parliament and this is very important, that the ruling party, political control over the content of the broadcast, is listed in the same report because 180 countries being monitored, for your information, Croatia is 65th in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70273	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70274	Thank you very much. At no point did I praise the situation on HRT, I just warned that we were not dealing with the situation on the local media where, by my free court, we are curding a worse situation than on HRT. I could name a few examples from Slavonia, but this isn't a topic, it's a council topic, so I'm gonna stop here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70275	I'd like to write that down, record what you're saying, and sign in, please, buddy. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, it's exactly what you said, it's all recorded what we said, just like my colleague Tomic, what I was saying, and I said, 90% of the debate was devoted to local media. I'm sorry if you were in a better environment so maybe you weren't following my debate, I wasn't talking about HRT that much. When you talk about the ownership structure that you say is in the hands of local powers, I would disagree with you, that is, you are simply denied here by owners, i.e. the ownership structure of all local media that is available to everyone and it has changed greatly, so for every television there is a ownership structure and for every radio station in the Republic there is a ownership structure. Well, if there's anything you need, we can discuss it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70277	Replicate reply, respected representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70278	Thank you very much. Thanks for the call. Fortunately, everything was written down, and I didn't say at any point that you weren't dealing with the problem of local media. Of course, you mentioned a lot of difficulties that they are facing and we are all aware of, and I was only talking about the influence of local leaders on this and let's not talk about ownership structure now. One is influence, one is ownership structure. We're all aware the party can't own the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70279	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70280	Dear counterpart Tomic, I would agree with what part of what my colleague Glavak said was clear about the ownership contracts. But if you're saying politics has a big impact on local radio and TV stations, imagine how much it has on non-profit media directly funded. Imagine, then, when you compare these two things, what kind of disparity is it in political influence? And then what are we talking about? And we introduced that very recently. We're talking on the one hand that it's not good to talk about HRT and that maybe we've given it too much time, I think too little because we haven't been able to discuss the 2011 report yet, let alone 2012 and '13. You say I'm not going to... that somewhere and there's an impact, but imagine when you compare it to something where you practically directly from the budget you finance something called a non-profit medium. Imagine then how much political influence there is. And then why did we do it like that? If we're talking about political influence so I guess it's a direct influence when someone directly finances you and keeps you, so to speak, on the leash carefully following what you're going to do or not doing because next year we'll see if it's going to be cash... Direct from the budget,...the ministry. And where can there be more political influence than that? By which criteria without the obligation to produce public content, the main thing is that you are non-profit or whatever that means is, it's pretty hard for me to figure out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70281	Thank you very much. Replica's reply, distinguished representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70282	We can really discuss the problem of non-profit media, and I'm sure we can determine that 100% of what you said is true, but I would ask you, unfortunately, you can't answer me now, what is your solution to non-profit media? Should we put them out? And now I'm just gonna pull one parallel, maybe it's not the smoothest one. When we send our athletes to the competition, when we pay for the Olympic committees, it's the same from the budget, we have no profit from it, and then when these football players participate in the campaign on the side of some political options, then it's the same direct influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70283	Thank you very much. We're continuing to discuss clubs. Please, fellow Shuker, it's not the first time. Comrade Shucker, you have enough experience arguing in the Parliament, don't be surprised, please. A colleague of Mile Horvat, on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70284	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome Mrs. Rakic and members of the Council for Electronic Media. I will, on behalf of our club, but at the same time I think I will say something and what the National Minority Club will agree to, try to analyse through this report a situation directly related to the position of minority media, i.e. the representation of minority issues in electronic media. Of course this report will be accepted because it is for 2012 and for us, there will be no reason not to accept it, for us it will be the subject of analysis, but I think it will be a much more interesting report for 2013. When reading this report, then in the opening part, we see that the Council for Electronic Media as an independent, independent, regulatory body in the field of electronic media primarily implements the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, which is perfectly normal and then here in the introductory section says that the Council for Electronic Media in 2012 has opened 2 tenders in which 36 was awarded around 36 million kuna for 1446 programmes. In 2012, the Council was therefore continuously established that in 2012 a total of 163 thousand 400 hours of radio and television programmes were continuously recorded. When we analyzed this, we asked one practical question, so we're talking about 164 thousand hours of TV programs, how many times were there to process certain minority themes and to find members of national minorities with their life problems within those hours. It's about a hundred hours a year, and when we compare it, it's about the representation of these topics in this class in some small percentages. So that's the thing we talk about year after year and that's the elemental problem of media representation of members of national minorities. In the end, the Alliance for National Minorities spoke many times and looked at this fact critically. The part concerning a public tender for concessions is said to refer to the Council in accordance with Article 72 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The e-media law conducts a concession shop. Of course, these preparatory actions to grant concessions should provide some justification for granting these concessions. Therefore, the criteria for granting concessions are laid down and there are many complaints about these criteria in practice. The profession and some interested people say that these criteria are not sufficiently realistic and that they are often different from the fact that they are spent in life. We smaller think that in these criteria that would be decided on in the award of a concession, and it would be said that this is a fact of justification should also be included in any case in terms of the mandatory percentage or participation of minority emissions as a condition for granting concessions. Later in the debate, we will see that it is not even without the basis of the objection. The section on the Pluralism Facility and the diversity of electronic media says that the amount of funding to the Pluralism Fund is, among other things, provided by certain legal provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, the amount of funding paid by the HRT in the amount of 3% of total funds collected on behalf of the tax. We, when we analyse previous data on the participation or representation of emissions in the total programme captain and emissions related to members of national minorities, so all the national minorities in the programme captains say so, so minorities regularly pay the monthly fee to HRT, even if you have a situation if you don't pay for the implementation of the pension, the account block, and we've already talked about it which is an additional inconvenience and topic to talk about. And then when we put it in some kind of correlation with what I said about representation in the programme, the question is, is that representation in the national minority programme is adequate for financial participation in the Pluralism Fund? We say that it is not, that it is in a great disproportionate manner between how many minorities participate in the participation to finance the fund and how many opportunities they have to consume media space. We also have a very interesting fact that the state has very well prescribed even the possibility of support, and it is said that for programmes aimed at the preservation of the language of members of national minorities support is prescribed up to 30% of the financial resources. What is important, therefore, is also not a stimulating part for certain publishers to include in their programmes emissions with a theme from the lives of national minorities. So even that support that gets at 30%, which isn't small, and that's not the stimulating part. One survey says that out of 160 radio stations in Croatia, only 17 have special emissions on national minorities financed by the Pluralism Facility. Also, some data say that a certain part of the radio station refuses to co-operate on the production of emissions intended for members of national minorities. That's what certain data says. I will only indicate here that there is some other experience from countries in the environment, let's say in the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina, every national minority has an evening daily in its own language and shows that deal with... thematics, so they have a evening diary in their own language, all the minorities there are. But there's something else to say here that I'd like to warn you about, a certain radio journalist and editor from Bjelovar, I have a name but it doesn't matter, reveals a methodology where local radio publishers are incorrectly, illegally using funds for the pluralism of electronic media. Journalists would sit in the studio, invent content and concept that corresponds to the name and description of the emissions for which the Electronic Media Council has received financial resources. None of these recorded shows were ever broadcast but served as a fictitious cover. So these are her words from the journalist and editors from Bjelovara, and now the question is how the agency, how does it control money flows that go on the basis of the Fund for pluralism of electronic media, which is not small money. We've got a lot of separations, and a little program minute in favor of members of the national minorities. In the funding section, we see that in 2012, TV publishers were allocated about a million and 400 thousand kunas to finance emissions in the languages of national minorities, radios, radio publishers somewhere around a million kunas. Whether these are sufficient funds, we minorities say, of course, that they are not and if it is put in line with the 36 million that was won in 2012 only for two competitions then we see how seriously this society thinks that we are the cultural content of this media space. Finally, what our constant conclusions are about these reports year by year, and these are also the conclusions of the National Minorities Council. We must say that there is ultimately insufficient representation of national minorities in programmes of 1.08% year-on-year, at national, regional and local level. No emissions have been realised in the languages of national minorities, we do not have the order of national minorities as it is in some other countries. Content and topic for national minorities do not present real life in media, while cultural and social topics are sub-represented. The lack of emissions that would treat topics of public interest, interesting and members of national minorities, but also of the majority people. Less are only represented in the Prism and Mozambique shows, so these are two emissions dealing with the problem of national minorities. Emissions are unfortunately mainly about folklore, tradition of cultural life, culinary, dancing, etc., and we think that topics should be strengthened with daily life problems that minorities face, with employment problems, with a problem of violating certain rights, so in terms of some education, not in terms of provocation, political participation, etc. There could be talk of a hate speech in the media, but that's one particular topic. Therefore, we believe that members of national minorities should receive more adequate and significant media space in order to better articulate the contents of their culture and traditions and their participations in the development of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70285	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70286	Dear President of the Parliament. Dear colleague, I agree completely with you that there is not enough representation of the minority programme, especially on the national HRT. I would like to remind you that the president of the government council for minorities Mr. Tolnauer protested and said he would call on minority members not to pay the subscription anymore because the situation is getting worse and worse. I am also sorry to tell you that there is also a way for non-profit media to be financed, which is to be done in the same way as... with the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has HRT, to clearly prescribe the obligation to produce public media content, and so it should also be linked to the position of non-profit media, and not to give something profitable or not profitable, but to produce content of public interest in the way signed contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 5 years. I do not know whether the contract and the specificity of the obligation to produce the programme is related to the needs of minorities in the Republic of Croatia, but in any case it should be that what Mr. Tolnauer said would really not happen and in fact threaten the director of television.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70287	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70288	I'm more than convinced that Mr. Tolnauer said that in one state of disappointment, so he didn't mean it seriously, he won't stop paying his obligations as he won't stop paying some other obligations. But the fact is that representation in the program with 1.0% is not a good thing, it is not a good message and of course the members of the national minorities cannot be satisfied with such a media treatment. Whether or not this will change in relations with the Government, etc. I can't say it now, I'd like it to be brought to the level of countries surrounding us, so if we get such a minute and such public treatment as they have national minorities in some of the countries in our environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70289	The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, it's hard to believe, but you probably have some information about some radio stations or television stations refusing to cooperate with national minorities because I'm going to remind you just that it's being poked especially, if I can call it, when applying for funds from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of media, for example, emissions dealing with national minorities. So I'm going to mention here are two TVs in Varazdin and Međimurska County, so Varazdin TV and Heart TV that are doing a show about national minorities, the Roma national minority. Equally, a whole series of radio stations are available to us and in the review of the funds they have made. And that's exactly what you said. There are indications, and there are now and as the representatives of the Council have told us, publishers who did not respect the funds they received. And my question was and I hope that Mrs. Rakic or one of the representatives of the Council will answer the question whether they returned the funds. Because according to the law, if they fail to fulfil their legal obligation, the means are due to be returned. So let's hope it doesn't happen again, and there's this key thing that I've said to them is that they really need more human resources to track it all down. And you know fellow Horvat, they say that actually, trust in the media and some indicator of social trust. Well, I'll just tell you what trust there is, for example, on a scale for political parties. We're all very bad for you here together. So, citizens trust you 1.73 and on this scale they trust the military, the church, the police, the government, television, the European Union and the Parliament most. Come on, we've been through something better, and then the press, the union and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70291	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70292	Thank you, colleague. So it was unacceptable for me when I received information from a serious organization, an NGO that has been practically engaged in this for a long time, where they said that certain numbers of radio stations have refused, so to include these topics in their programs. So these are two negative phenomena. Those who used the means to pluralize the media so they didn't use it the right way, so they cheated on the state that way. And those who won't even use it will not include you in their programs. It's a social problem and it's an alarming thing to be responded to by both the Agency and the Council. Of course, this lady I was quoting here in one part was bold to point to that negative phenomenon. We at the National Minorities Council have been talking about how these funds are being used for a few years, or we said that the funds are being used without the emissions being produced. That's what we pointed to before this lady. Regarding the party rating, therefore the fact is that politics and parties have a small rating but you said the same good part are probably the media's fault, so the question is who's to blame whether the low rating media or they produce such a rating to public policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70293	Dear Representative Vladimir Bilek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70294	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, colleague Horvat, I totally agree with your exposure. Above all, on programmes not only in the language of national minorities and programmes related to national minorities, but primarily in relation to non-emissioning of these emissions, where there is a truly fictitious interpretation. So, the shows are done, the data is sent, and you also mentioned Bjelovar. So there were certain instructions that such things happen. It's not just Belovar. That's our other county, that's our other media. And I think that there should certainly be more control, because let's say an example that some medium that doesn't even publish the emissions for which it has received the funds, gets the payment for them, and on the other hand the funds are being reduced to media that are doing very well and constantly these programs and projects. Let's say we mention Daruvar Radio, a Czech-language show that has been going on for almost 50 years in certain half-hours a day, which is a great tradition and one of the founding parts of the radio itself that are constantly reducing funds. Normally with the reduction of funds, the possibility of funding is falling slowly, but that funding is falling, and on the other hand we have media that are paying for something that's never been realised in reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70295	Dear Representative Ilija Filipovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's just a few words on this exhibit we heard from fellow Horvat. I am absolutely in favour of raising the level of consummated rights of national minorities. But then it should seem to me in a different way. Taking care of at least the possible reciprocity of the same rights enjoyed by Croats in neighbouring countries, for example in Serbia, as you mentioned. I don't think that it is necessary to elaborate in a special way now, which means for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia constitutional law, both in elections and in parliamentary elections and in presidential elections, and for this House of Commons. I ask you if you would be obliged to sign an agreement on the basis of reciprocity between Croatia's HRT and national minorities, and then to argue that the Croatians have the same thing as the national minority in the Republic of Serbia. That would seem like a fair play game to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70297	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70298	I thank you anyway. Not that it would be a fair play, but it's our duty. We are, obviously you're not in good faith telling me this, but you're not fully informed. We have had dozens of meetings in the last few years with representatives of the Croatian community in Subotica where we went to them, told them, told them our experiences and tried to talk with their political representatives about how they could come into a particular segment of public and social life to our level, to our level. But when we talk about reciprocity in this topic that we're talking about today's participation in public media, they're ahead of us. They're in that thing right in front of us. It can be documented. In other things, the Constitutional Law on the rights of national participation in political life and a number of other things is not ahead of us. So we're here to learn something from each other and to support each other, I'm talking about national minorities. And we do, we have regular meetings and good communication with their political representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70299	Thank you very much. We are going after the discussion by clubs, the HNS Club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70300	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mrs. Rakic and his associates. We are now looking forward to the 2012 report by the Council of Electronic Media Agency for Electronic Media, and we are now looking forward to the 2014 HNS report for 2013 and then the 2014 report where you will be Mrs Rakic responsible for this is not clear and thank you for coming to present this council at all, despite the fact that it has little to do with you. On 190 pages of this report, all the powers and activities of the councils and agencies are listed very closely in the list of media ownership structures, software content, editors, insurance against the implementation of provisions on programming principles and obligations, control of the implementation of the HRT law to the financial report and concrete allocations of funds to media service providers and radio from the fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. We at the HNS would like to point out something more important to the work of councils, agencies and funds and the importance of their existence and all control mechanisms that they have in their hands. In fact, the area of electronic technology is a specific area of electronic media, which is available to the public to the most developed area of human activity in the last 50 years and remains in an unprecedented rise in the world. The amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media of July of last year are once a part of Croatia opportunities are purely revolutionary, modernising thinking, attitudes, views and thus legal actions in relation to modern electronic media, and the law almost fully meets the current views and needs of all actors in electronic media. The law protects universal values, cultures, languages, specialities and diversity of minority groups and the various interests of many civil society participants. Something should be said and related to local radio and primarily TV stations in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that all televisions in Croatia, Croatia and its citizens are important for both those with national concessions and those with local concessions. Today, television is still the main source of information for most citizens, portable, cultural, scientifically popular, sports, educationally selected programmes. This is consumed by all citizens, citizens regardless of the degree of education, faith, sex, birth, age. Just as any other activity does not have only the income side and the TV production activity has a much wider role than the empty profit creation itself, whether profitable or non-profit. But when we think about making a profit, it's a general activity such as the media in this case, TV production, the responsibility of such companies and incomparably greater than the various other activities. Today's media is also or even more than a policy responsible for creating a social atmosphere. The media is responsible for the transfer of elementary information to categorization, qualification and evaluation of the value of almost all events in the community. The selection, positioning and evaluation of media directly influences attitudes and opinions and awareness of events. Because of the vast amount of information, because of the fast way of life, because of the overload of their own work and personal problems today, the average reader, listener or viewer simply leaves to the media to form his opinions and views on events and phenomena in society. There is simply no time or energy not to believe the media's messages, and because of this, the media's responsibility for society today is greater than ever. All profitable or commercial media in Croatia except HRT are private and they are all naturally turned to profit and many of them do not choose or very often choose the public incentive of the lowest passions to raise circulation, obedience or ratings or simply to survive in the market at all. News and electronic blasts and conditionally spoken journalistic and media pornography can be fought in various ways but primarily by showing the same opposition with an entirely opposite sign of quality and with the right values of content. Until today, free competitions are primarily important that the basic operating conditions of all media are the same. It's not good to, for example. television stations with a national concession under more favourable operating conditions than television stations at regional or local level. It is necessary to openly support the work of television stations at regional and local level because they are important, because they are closest to their citizens' problems, because they understand the problems of local communities and citizens in them best. And that is why it is particularly reasonable Article 33, because the Law on Electronic Media where public institutions and businesses are bound to advertise with 15% of the promotion budget on local TV stations. This at least mitigates the difference between promotional potential and becomes a national and regional local concession. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, On the website of the Council, a form for registration and a list of publishers of television, radio at regional and local levels was published and a reminder of the obligation prescribed by the Electronic Media Act was sent to 161 addresses. As 48 debtors failed to fulfil their obligation, they received an additional time-limited rush. Following the processing of the application, it has been established that of the 161 applicants referred to in Article 33. The electronic media law, the data didn't deliver 26. That's too bad. According to this report in 2012, the Council for Electronic Media issued 2 tenders for 1446 programmes, already Mrs Rakic said, and it was awarded 36 million 241 thousand 125 kuna, out of which 19 million 806 thousand 841 kuna for the year 2011, more for 7 million 113 thousand 682 kuna and radio publishers 16 million 407 thousand 273 kuna, i.e. almost the same amount as the day and for 2011, meaning nothing, no changes were made. It seems, at least to me, that we at the HNS, along with some other data, that the unused funds are being transferred from year to year, we seem to be large in the HNS, and it seems to us that they could probably have been deliberately distributed so that for 2012 the amount of about 28 million, not but about exactly 28 million 376 thousand 211 kuna, and otherwise the surplus of the council's income was in 2012 amounting to 4 million 269 thousand kuna. Electronic media is certainly an area that develops at random speeds. Just over 20 years have passed since the actual general use of personal computers in Croatia. The Internet has been presented practically the other day, and the most extensive social network Facebook records just over 5 years of existence and acclamation use around the world, including with us. Internet communication, e-mail is basic, almost the only kind of written communication. We, too, have made a number of amendments in the Assembly where in certain laws we set out electronic, or electronic archival records, and by the last amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we have made a rational decision that all documents of the representatives' proposals are received by electronic means. We're on the verge of official electronic signature and real electronic digital age. On the Internet we can track various cultural events, concerts, numerous art exhibitions, films, millions, billions of photos, buy goods and services via the Internet, solve daily administrative problems, pay bills. Soon we will receive all the permits and documents of the state administration from all levels exclusively by electronic means. Today, life as a whole is impossible without electronic communications and using computer technology. It's all on the Internet, all the data, almost all the knowledge of all mankind. Electronic media commercially, non-commercially slowly assumes the main role and in quick information about daily events. Some of Croatia's best press feathers have crossed from daily and weekly newspapers and write for more important so-called new portals. Some of our top intellectuals write articles and have their columns on various portals. Many also write their blogs. Anyone who wants, has the opportunity to express themselves, write, publish whatever they want, express their views, opinions, fears, imaginations, ideas. Many are objective and unobstructive critics of our daily life. We bear witness and read from ground floor prosaclysms to top scientific, political and social considerations, thesis and comments. The most spiritual depictions of cartoons, photo montages, movies, videos are on the Internet and all its other derivatives. The Internet provides absolutely random communication possibilities. The revolution... springs are organized and modernised via the Internet. There's a revolution in Ukraine right now. I was, yesterday I returned from Kiev and the actors themselves... the revolutions said that their full information was entirely, about Ukraine and also abroad gained direct transmission of revolutionary events through smart phones and iPads which was not the case during the orange revolution. Overall, the work of the Electronic Media Council, the Agency for Electronic Media and the media pluralism and diversity fund is unusually important, primarily in terms of market regulation. It is in vain that anyone participating in this particularly demanding market has the exact same conditions and the exact same limitations. No one, under any circumstances, shall be privileged or demoted. And secondly, we at the HNS seem to still find it unusually many subjects dealing with productions of electronic content in a black or gray zone, especially in terms of various Internet portals, some on purpose, and some simply because they are not the focus of regulators. Thus, a number of unfair competitions were created for all those who work in accordance with laws and regulations and pay fees and taxes. It seems to me that the council, especially the agency, still has a lot of work to do. Now one likely naive and innocent question, is there any condition or regulation that our television is doing? Would you mind commercializing her? Either that's not necessary or we don't fall under any regulation, and we know it's transmitted on both HTV and cable TV. But we in the HNS certainly believe that even more order, not control, will be introduced in the future and never censored in hyperproduction, both profitable and non-profit electronic media, and to the benefit of the only important final consumers, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The HNS, the liberal Democrats, will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70301	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Jasen Mesic, a respected representative, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70302	Dear colleague, as if I had listened to your repeated words from your speech when we had amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media. I can recognize the passports precisely because I listen very carefully to your presentations. I'm glad you said you were in Ukraine, which is why you are among the leading agents who travel the most and achieve the best results on this issue. As for the revolutionaryness you mentioned in your speech. That step is so revolutionary, it hasn't been recorded anywhere yet. There is no record of what you mentioned in your speech regarding non-profit media and amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. It is not yet such a system, and I doubt it is in line with European legislation, we will check it out. But I have to admit that I have to agree in part with your speech when you said that the principal came to present a report and for a period of which she was not in charge. Let alone the fact that it happened to us with HRT because the director can't get to discuss the period for which he wasn't in charge, although it is an ossus in the Croatian Parliament, and I would like it when we finally have the opportunity to discuss HRT reports to say the same and to apply the same principle that you have applied today which is perfectly correct for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70303	The esteemed colleague of the director represents a council legal person and is here for a reason and for a reason. Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Blažekovic, you were a little revolutionary and inspired in your address to your colleagues here in the assembly. You're talking about the Internet Revolution, but I have to tell you that still viewers in the Republic, I mean viewers, most believe television and not the Internet, and that "revolution" can still cause a picture with a tone, and that's still television. Equally the latest research, so the most relevant, the freshest 2013, say that Croats trust the new TV most, and then HRT and then, of course, the other TVs in a row, I will not now quote. But what particularly intrigued me, you repeated it twice, that it is very important that all have exactly the same conditions and the same limitations. That's never gonna happen. They'll all have limitations but they'll never have all the same conditions because at the beginning they never had all the same conditions. And unfortunately, some radio stations are caused by financial problems, because of the inability to finance, because of the inability to pay people, so everything we say money has to be shut down, but unfortunately we can't stop it. The Croatian TV market, only the TV market is worth around 740 million kuna. I think we all know it's serious money and that's why its influence is immeasurable to some other media at the moment. As far as equal terms are concerned, I am for it, but I repeat myself, it will never happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70305	Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70306	Thank you. The first thing about this revolutionary thing that I experienced in Ukraine was that it was both a tone and a picture because a direct transmission was made with cell phones and with an i-pod. And that's that revolutionary part that happened in Majdan himself, so it was live streaming transmitted on television. That's what I said in this context about the Majdan Revolution or the revolution in Ukraine. As far as the same conditions are concerned, I think what you said is that I don't want to stand behind it, I don't want to agree to it, and I'm here to make it impossible. I'm here to make it possible and try to make it possible for all of us to have the same starting conditions. It doesn't mean that everyone will develop in the same way, and that doesn't mean that they're all the same, and it doesn't mean that we're all the same, but we all have to have initial conditions if we're doing the same job. I stressed that all media of the same kind must initially have the same conditions. And I don't intend to give up as long as I walk, let alone as I'm a parliamentary representative or as a politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70307	Thank you too, dear colleague. The Croatian Labour Club is their turn in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70308	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished directors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before I start the way I intended to, I must comment on my fellow Mesic's statement, and I absolutely support yours, and I took this as a commendation to the principal for coming here to defend the report two years ago. until the director of HTV so that under no circumstances can it be obtained to come Yes, but it's my freedom here to bring them out, and as much as I can say quite confidently that I'm expressing the impressions of the Croatian Labour Club and not of my own. [[Intruder Leko: The impressions are a deceptive thing to a colleague.]] The fact is that even I am experiencing myself as an expert on electronic media and in general media, I was struck by this role, but it does not mean that I cannot have my own position on this, or I cannot state the position of the Croatian Labour Club. And here, honestly, I haven't read any of this. I've had a chance to hear a lot of things. The first thing I'd start with is when I started reading this report, the first thing that came into my eye was this guyefeller with some weird number that the principal in the opening part explained, or she said what number, so we know that 36 million is and if I'm not wrong, 240,000, that's the first detail that got into my eye, so it ruined my impression of what I'm going to find here, so I'm more committed to hearing from colleagues that I still think are more professional and far away than I am. The time to discuss this, I don't mean the captain now, but we're discussing something that's for 2012 and for every such report, I'm going to point out that it's really not the Council's remark, it's us, but every time it happens the same thing. We are constantly discussing these reports when the dust has fallen on them, when they are essentially irrelevant except that we do this formality and we can say that we have discussed them. I made some notes out of my colleague Glavak's exposure, even from other colleagues, but she was the first one, so I left her. Well, we're expecting a media strategy. We're not coming. Well, I have to admit, I respect your point of view, but I can't understand your surprise. So we're waiting for a culture strategy, that's tomorrow if I'm not wrong about theatre discussions, traffic strategies. Is there even a strategy we're not waiting for and that we can't wait for? So I'm not surprised there's no strategy, but I'm surprised at you colleagues who have had enough experience in this industry to be surprised by you. The report itself, I don't know if it makes any sense to discuss further since the principal didn't even, defends something that wasn't the fruit of her work. But the question is, six people follow 670 hours of program if I wrote it right. In what way do you learn whether you are ready and able to change something in that it really is not the case that your colleague mentioned from Bjelovar, he listed for Bjelovar, whether or not another city and whether it even happened there, but obviously there is this room maneuverically where people can get to the finances without them belonging to them. My colleague Glavak mentioned the mass of those who have fallen into troubles, who have even broken up with work, and on the other hand we have those who do not have work and who regularly exercise the right, conditionally speaking, or make income, which is if we are to truly clean crime. There's something else in this debate that's just been left in my ear, incompetence. So then says the dissent was declared by the Council for Electronic Media, Ministry of Culture, HACOM, Ministry of Finance, Transmitters and Connections. So I'd like to remind myself of yesterday's report when we had one agency that had seven cases, and in five, it turned out to be incompetent, and two of them didn't have time to solve it. Well, looks like it's become a trend not to say "incompetentness." Those who have not declared themselves incompetent I think they are the most in that trend, and this is the complete government so far shown by its work. There is also information on the representation of political parties or evenness. Someone, I don't know who, mentioned that the ratio was 8:1. If that's the exact information, frankly, it really freaked me out, but if that's the right information, so it's really then, I don't know what a man would say, but then it's public television put into operation basically one political option or their satellites. I don't think it's for us to worry about the opposition, I think it's primarily those who have the potential to influence that they first have to worry about it. Because, look, it's not a situation anymore I'm ordering, it's going to be, it's becoming a self-censorship. No, I just have to follow up on who, take care of character and action. When I mentioned character and action, someone also mentioned local media and how local media are controlled by local politicians and there are no exceptions, no matter what political option we are talking about, but really local media, especially, my colleague looks at me carefully what I'm about to say, we come from the same environment, so we know very well how local media can track the character and the work of a person. And all the media that's in that middle, in that... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70309	Let your colleague talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70310	And all the media is not to say 24 hours dedicated to the character and work of one person. You know, it reminds people of that, I'm not going to name who said with pâté, and in all the local media you have the same situation with a local politician who cheers and dresses, and on the way to all the homes through these media. Control of that program, if you can do it, if you're ready, I won't ask if you're capable because as soon as you've accepted that function, you probably consider yourself capable, and whether it has enough technical and human capabilities to really control it. To me, this is a fragrant piece of information that six people control 670 hours of program. So I think if, every honor, they obviously have such opportunities and it's nice, the only consequences of that are that some are charged without achieving concrete results. Property structure. Well, I have to admit, I didn't find anything detailed about what would get my attention here in this material. I don't want to talk about the names of fellow Mesic, but life experience from the environment we come from, so we all know this doesn't drink water. That those who are listed as owners are mostly just pro forms, that there are some labels that the real owner would hide behind who knows maybe I read on the portal today that they even suspect that one has 40 different radio stations but is not the owner of paper all those 40. Is it possible to put an end to it and how? I believe that you will give yourself the effort to find some solution to bring this down let's say in the least possible measure because I believe that completely eradicate this is not possible. And I have another note. Since you're the director of the Electronic Media Council, and now a colleague had a little before the discussion where revolutionary methods mentioned such things. I would ask for the influence of all who can help in something truly revolutionary, so that we in this House can finally get the ability to vote electronically, to free fellow Maric from the paranoia of balconies and Fridays and counting. Thank you very much. I hope I didn't get too far away from the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70311	Dear colleague, first of all from the President's desk. I agree with criticism and warnings that it is very important to have reports on time in the Croatian Parliament, but there are also objective reasons and we will try to be reports immediately next year after one year. In other words, we should have worked these reports last year. I agree, and the warning's good. However, I want to say for the sake of the Croatian public. And this report, which you declare useless, unnecessary, late, has brought very good attention to the clubs of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, for the sake of the Croatian public. Five clubs spoke and one representative applied for 19 replicas and 17 replies to the replica. This is the important attention of the Croatian Parliament. And now we're going to the replicas. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70312	Dear colleague, the impression doesn't fool you at all, no matter what the impression may be. But that wasn't the case with you. Imagine that only when the 2011 reports for Croatia are in order for the Croatian Radio Television will they create the attention of the Croatian Parliament, how many replicas there will be and how many debates there will be in the Croatian Parliament. As for that, and here I really commended Mrs. Director for coming. You remember that last week we had a break for the club that we protested because reports on Croatian broadcasting were downloaded. Croatian broadcasting has not dedicated any single note to it, on radio or on television. I'm going back to what you respected fellows started talking about censorship. It's censorship. When opposition clubs in the Croatian Parliament seek club breaks and protest that the report has been removed from the agenda, i.e. to try to fusion the 2011 reports, 12th and 13th with the only reason that the director would not have to come here one, two or three times and listen to what opposition representatives have to tell him as representatives elected by citizens, then it is worse than censorship. Because since we already have censorship, at least they'll give us a chance to tell them it's censorship. But it's not a fellow opinion of us from HDZ or us from the opposition. Well, that report came out today to warn you of the direct possibility of political control. And just as the principal came today for a report for a period for which she was not competent and responsible, so could Mr. Director and we could have let him do so if it wasn't for the first time that it was taken off the agenda after taking more than a year and a half on the agenda under the 1960s, one of the largest public companies in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70313	The answer to the line Mladen Novak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70314	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Mesic, I'll start from the beginning. The importance of this topic is that I don't know five clubs, 19 debates, I don't know how many replicas. And I didn't mention that the report was unnecessary or pointless. I said that the debate on this is pointless with such a time-out when in fact it can no longer contribute to the development of the next year when that year and that year have passed long ago. As for auto-censorship and censorship, I used the term auto-censorship. I'll do that a little bit of yours, your example I'll expand it a little bit, or I'll set another example. We had a State's Attorney's Office report prepared, discussed, all done and prepared for Friday's vote. The report was not voted, nor did we get any explanation for what it was. Not only did we not get an explanation, but three MPs asked the question neatly but what conditions did not come to pass. And there's no answer. But what is the greatest absurdity behind what the media did? Constantize what was in the section believe it or not, or with a grain of coffee, so it happened. Well, in every normal state, it would be four pages, five pages would be just about that. Look out, it's not anybody. So when selectors change football teams we have five pages of text on it and everyone has their own opinion, they change the main, or the State's Attorney General's report, nothing, peace of God, everyone satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70315	Time. Thank you. The next line will be presented by a respected colleague of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you were talking about a colleague that maybe this topic isn't as close to you as you normally talk about the railroad, for example, but your problems are similar, maybe not as obvious as in HZ, HZ-Cargo. But there are problems both when we talk about local media. Of course I've ironicd what you looked at my surprise, for example. It'll look like this. We will establish a commission that will work to establish a commission that will be responsible for building a strategy and will then start working on a media strategy. So we already know that, when we don't know what we're going to start a commission. Data, ratio 8:1 so I found relevant data relating to the ten months last year following the central diary but this time I will only talk about public service, so on HTV, 38 guesting members of the Kukuriku coalition, 6 independent or apolitical, 2 HDZ. The third journal, therefore relevant measurement or monitoring of guesting from 26 August to October Kukuriku 19 guesting, HDz 3 and other 67.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70317	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70318	Thank you very much. Well, my colleagues, I realized, I'm not that naive. But I also pointed out what was happening in other sectors. Let's say yesterday that phenomenal report, I think it should be forwarded to all the world agencies to announce this news that we have a state agency that has seven cases in a year for five has been declared incompetent and two has not arrived to resolve. Well, I think it's for the Guinness Book of Records, you should commend people, give them a reward, it really needs to be imaginative, so get out with a report like that. I think it's better that they didn't make any reports so they can change them because they don't have a report but write something like that. But when you mentioned about this representation in the media, but it's also you know statistics is very misleading. So let's say that when some serious issue comes out, the situation in the economy, I don't know the problems with the franc, the credits, then the Kukuriku coalition will get its space in real time. And then in order to get the ratio somehow as much covered, then they release a contribution where two Labourists outside a press conference in a joke talk about whether Mr. Cacic paints or not and now the minute is covered, the announcements are covered and everything is fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70319	Respected replica, Honored Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70320	and Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you do whatever you say you're not in the subject, but of course you get into the subject, and then I have to admit sometimes, that's your real political right here, all of us, you get into some flat-rates anyway, right? You're saying I didn't read anything and I had something to hear and then you say this is a pointless debate. In order not to read and listen only to portals and various debates about the Council for Electronic Media, this is why this debate is needed, and that is why these materials and official documents are needed, because then from them and knowledge of the very way the Council for Electronic Media works in possible criticism of certain work, because we criticise all those who work and strive to do as well as welcome that this debate which is late but is necessary and of course the Director will also know tomorrow in which direction, in which way better to do and correct what is corrected backwards cannot, of course, be corrected. And just one comment in your comment that six people follow 670 hours. If they knew how concessions are obtained and what content, what criteria, which tasks, how, for example, those who receive concessions that they must satisfy, which they must give as a proposal for the programme, then it is quite clear that this programme that they are implementing with other conditions is easy to monitor with 6 people, they do not have to watch all possible television and listen to all the radios, because it is impossible, it is nowhere to work, but they are giving the program, the software content which from domestic production to all other content that they need to satisfy at all to get the concession much easier to follow and as regards counting who it was, it is constantly counting, unfortunately because there is obviously no other topic than counting who was more in the media, probably one who was more interesting and more interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70321	The line will be answered by the esteemed Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70322	Thank you. My colleague, it's always a rule. It doesn't matter what I say, but it's important that you comment on what you want to comment on, so you put something in my mouth that I didn't say, but there's no connection and it's good. As far as the software content and our specific observations are concerned, that is, with such a layman’s population, without professional expressions, I said something about it, but it was directed to people who listened rather than to you. As for this next one, I'm going to remind you of yesterday's debate when it came to the drug report, and then we've come to a conclusion, and then we've realized something that caused some people to be disgusted even though they're aware of where they live and they're aware of the truth and they're aware that's normal and that it's happening. That's the same thing that happens here. There we talked about that in drug dealing, drug trafficking is always involved, and some individuals from the police, police circles, and then he reports when he's got all the information and he reports when there's going to be a raid, when something's going to be done, it's nothing new, everybody knows that, but yesterday we've been experiencing that people are disgusting her from where we got that. I'm not saying that this Council of Electronic Media is also informing some medium, watching her this week or month we're going to control you, but it's clear that there is such a possibility, and since something like that was happening, not like that, but that the case that my colleague mentioned from Bjelovar, I'm clearly warning that this method created room for doubt and this other. It's not my idea to claim that it was and that it's the result, but I'm just warning you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70323	Thank you. A respected representative, Goran Maric, has applied for an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70324	Thank you very much. The Council for Electronic Media, we may be underestimating a little of it in importance, and it is extremely important. This council plays a crucial role in forming the truth offered to the Croatian people. My colleague Novak said he wasn't an expert in this area. I read and listened. I think your debate was extremely useful and this is proof that it doesn't need to be a cook to know whether soup is salt, it can also know who's not a cook and your debate has been extremely useful and opened up many replicas and debates. A few would, why is it important, first? Well, guys, they say it survives on three things. In peace, in law and in truth. Most of all, we have peace, we have laws, although quite vague and bad, but we lack the truth most, the most we miss, and it is crucial for the future of society, and in the formation of truth, there is an essential role of the Council for Electronic Media. Their work depends on how all electronic media works. Only a few, I would take advantage of this occasion, and I would refer to several items in the report and several phenomena. When we talk about changing the ownership structure, one suggestion, on page 12, would be good except for those legal persons to indicate which changes occurred. It was the old one, and it's the new one. That would be complete information, not much, not asking... with the setting... of space, but good information and real information. On the following page you are saying that, a form has been published on the website for registration and a list of publishers of television and radio at regional and local levels and a reminder of the obligation prescribed by law and addressed to 161 addresses. Of those 161 who are late, 26 of them are deafening your request again. Here I warn of a lack of legal provisions and even stronger penalties for such behaviour. I don't think it's a good idea to legally allow someone who is legally prescribed to disregard the obligation, let alone not respect it even when it is given a warning, that there should be a stronger punishment for those who don't respect it, and even more twice as much if they don't respect it after the warning. And there it is, you can see that the vacuum is in legal application. The amounts allocated to the advertising of the authorities of the state administration and of which the media and how much, I think it should be the same, because it's about the authorities of the state administration, exactly what media and how much advertising they paid for, then we should be able to draw conclusions. Here you have stated that you draw attention that some did not want to supply data, and these are institutions or agencies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Even one, you quote what kind of agency it is, answers, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in its reply states among other things: "The Agency is a legal person, in accordance with Article 27(2), however, this does not fall under the notion of a legal person in the majority of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, since the Republic of Croatia is exclusively the founder of the Agency and not the owner of the Agency". Which impertinent excuse, which haughtiness, which I must say perversion, which an ugly excuse for not missing data. Imagine we are not owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is our founder and we do not want to provide you with the information. This is about the Personal Data Protection Agency. Highlighting as an example of inappropriate behaviour towards the regulatory body, according to the Council for Electronic Media. On page 27, you state which legal entities did not use funds and you gave them orders to return funds, you list 8 companies, but there is no record of whether they returned them. But it's not in the report, it's just that he was given a warrant to come back. Then you go to the list of what you noticed about the irregularities and complaints of the citizens where you explained why someone committed the offence. Well, most people are aware that there are often abuses of media space, inappropriate advertising. So you're saying that it's in the culinary contribution to certain brands that I'm not now advertised and that nowhere clear says that it's about sponsorship, and it's actually shown as sponsorship. What may not have been noticed, and I have spoken several times, so I would like the board of electronic media to notice that often on HTV when calling guests, and here you have written how to interview a guest with a T-shirt where there was a commercial and that this is inappropriate and that this is why the offence is being brought. However, when we have a guest under whom it says that he owns a private company and that, that he is an analyst of a bank and so on, it's also a covert advertising and that I finally ask you to stop by, please. I've been begging for five years from this House. Well, let him be a famous analyst, but don't let him write, let him write a bank analyst, but not which banks he's been hosting for five minutes, in the Central Journal, they keep doing it. It's been happening lately with private schools too. Well, be the guest, I have nothing, the dean of the private university, but let the dean of the university be written, but not by any university. It can't be written on HTV, and it happens very often. There are shows that you've seen well as a wild party that says that RTL Exclusive can endanger the physical, mental or moral development of minors. Well, I can't mention just one show that I have to admit that as soon as I see it, I'm switching right now, but I just know about it because it's enough to see two seconds that it can be classified not to include that it's just endangering the physical, mental and moral development of minors, but it's insulting reason and human dignity and man, and it's called Blood is not water. Well, who can watch that, I really don't know. Please note that, too, if it's been spotted by a wild party. It's full of swearing every day of the afternoon when kids come from school learn to swear. That's inconspicuous. I think that in this report of yours, you should evaluate the situation that is even more detailed and bring to the conclusion all the problems you are facing and all the proposals that we need to solve even legally because there is a legal framework that exists for manipulation. The least you can do is manipulate the media. And one more thing you would mention by the way is that it is unnatural, unlively, and I don't know how to explain it yet, that HTV is charging a satellite programme to Croats outside Croatia while other countries like Serbia or others around the world can watch a free programme. The persistent HTV requests a subscription for Croats outside Croatia and cannot watch the program of their homeland. It is also inappropriate, and I would be extremely pleased if it were the Council's remark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70325	A series of interesting suggestions. Perhaps we should suggest that when the MPs sign, they sign only a parliamentary representative without a party to which the parliamentary representative belongs. The replica was reported by the esteemed Sunhead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Marić has touched a number of problems and we have shown better words about what should be improved or improved, but of course I will point to the problem once again, which is monitoring because the amendments to the law you know that electronic publications have also come under council monitoring. I don't know if the council can once again say it all follows if it has the capacity. It is true what you say every day especially in electronic publications because the virtual world tolerates anything or allows anything regardless of those remarks that always say to you below that you must not insult, that you must not use harsh words in accordance with the law. Sometimes it's as if administrators don't want, don't see or perhaps deliberately leave it so that we're faced with violations of the law, violations of children's rights, discrimination, hate speech, insult and so forth. I don't know, the law has been passed, but since it's going to end, I'm afraid it's hard because you've only mentioned some of the monitored publishers who have made mistakes so far. But I say it will become more and more difficult to control.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70327	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70328	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, I may be a little bit idealizing sometimes, and sometimes I admit I have cynicism. And you know why? Idealism precedes experience, and cynicism follows experience so it makes sense that there are both. But idealism still prevails, so I think everything can end. There's nothing you can't handle. It's just a question of whether it's gonna end. But I would take advantage of the opportunity, so I'd like to answer the vice president a little bit, that private interests on public television represent private interests of general interest should be distinguished. I was merely stressing that public television should not allow advertising of private interests, promoting private interests. If it's a t-shirt then it's a signature, if it's behind the company's inscription that writes in several places, the company's logo is visible, then we shouldn't even write it ourselves. That's what this is about. I don't mind if he doesn't write under a parliamentary representative who's a party. Some people don't need it because now they've formed shows on both radio and television where they only host ministers themselves and don't write at all. ... There is now a new show Time for Government, it would be good to have time for MPs, if there was time for bishops, time for Catholics. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We've got new shows where only the minister is coming in and an hour on public television is talking, then we don't have to sign. But if it's six guests from six different political parties, then it's logical to have a signature from which someone's party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70329	Time's up. Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Ante Babic. Next time, call me back a little early. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70330	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your performance, you said that it is unimaginable for Croats outside the country to charge a subscription until other countries in the environment do, however, encourage television to watch it for free. That is true, however, I must stress that there are certain problems in these subscriptions that are actually coming from HRT, but we also may not have had enough time to say what is not good, that HRT in this year has abolished two very important correspondence in BiH, in Sarajevo and Mostar, while let's say other televisions, for example. Republika Srpska or Al Jazeera are strengthening. That doesn't make sense after the BiH census for the 560,000 Croats living in the area, so I think the HRT had to either give its pain to it. There's so much, I'm just going to lean on your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70331	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70332	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, you have rightly pointed to this problem even the subscription, but I find it incomprehensible and unacceptable and I will never make peace that Croatia prohibits Croatians from watching the Croatian program. I can't deal with that at all. Imagine, Croats in Germany can and are good at watching as many programs as possible, but they are watching the Serbian programme and they cannot watch the Croatian programme. It's inexplicable to all possible explanations. Incomprehensible. I don't know what has to be in HTV's heads to make that decision. But they're not just, I have other examples. I don't even know that the Voice of the Council can't be read online. It's incomprehensible. So that they may be interested in reading the press of the Catholics or not to read it. Obviously, they'd like to not read and lock it up. I can also not believe that Croats are forbidden to watch, and no one longs for Croatia so much, no one longs for the Croatian word, no one longs for their country as much as they do for Argentina, Germany or Canada, Australia and cannot look at the decision of one individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70333	The closing word belongs to the Director of the Agency and the Presidents of the Council for Electronic Media Mrs Mirjana Rakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much for this truly quality debate, for the exhibitions that will be for us in the Council and above all at the Electronic Media Agency very important in our further work of course. I think you're the one with that goal and you spoke here in this honorable home. The second thing I want to warn you is 2012 on the 2012 report. I know that when it comes to the media it's very difficult to just talk about something that's been put on paper here, the debate is always spreading, especially television, the HRT that I've been working on recently, and maybe it's this date that some things have had to be said, but I'm not fortunate or unfortunately the director of HRT, but recently less than a week of the President of the Council for Electronic Media and the Director of the Agency. So thank you for everything you've said, it's extremely interesting and I think it'll be a quality basis for further work. What I can promise right now is that you're going to be the next report for '13. a year to be obtained within the time limit that might be better discussed. I would also like to emphasise the basis of what I have asked within the council and the agency, the material has been delivered but how it must go, it was delivered in the summer of 2013, but all materials such have to pass a certain procedure and we have ended up where we are and with me who am here to present this report to you. What has been asked and what is important to say, which is whether the funds recovered from the fund that have not been used have not been realised by the programmes for which certain publishers competed. Yeah, they're all back, and that's the height, that's how big that material is, so they go through those numbers, and it's full of numbers. 466 000 kunas have been returned to the fund. That's what's important to say. As for monitoring, I know it's very difficult to figure out how to monitor it. Digitally recorded according to the obligation of those being recorded for 24 hours, the second according to the contracts in which it is recorded. We also respond to complaints from citizens and, of course, to the knowledge of the councilors themselves, and based on obligations, the programme obligations of the individual publisher. Six people can do it in quality by now. If it were not small or full, we have stuck to too much, we have adhered to rules within the European Union, the Member States determine according to their market in some way and the number of those who will monitor, i.e. being constantly employed in this extremely important business. As far as the question of national minorities is concerned, the plan is, I am already talking about 2014 and it will be very soon in realisation, which is the opening of a set of workshops on media literacy. These today have been very often talked about, although not speaking publicly, it is thought about, and that is our understanding in the media. One of the first of these workshops will be about national minorities. I think it will be a quality debate and knowledge that will be available there will be applied to the future. As far as HRT is concerned, if there is something to be said and relations to minorities, HRT has a contract with the Government and there is also a number of emissions, a quantity of minutes, or already as it is put on paper in particular. The very assembly television seemed strange to you or not a medium according to the Law on Electronic Media. It's so-called. A closed-circuit television that may have, for example, any major company if you have the opportunity to transmit, say, some choirs of working people. I know that on HRT we had it transferred, because not all employees can be at that moment and listen to the presentations of certain top people in the house, and the topics were important. And another thing, which is the obligation of the body part, I was well not a lapus because only part of the government body responds to those funds that should be paid annually. The members of the Council claim to have sent requests, haste and that is what it is. In 2012, it was just over 4 million. As far as I know in 2010, two years ago, it was somewhere around 19 million. So you see how different that is. I know we're in a difficult economic situation, but some legal obligations should be respected, not that there's a constant rush and the Council's threats can only be sent by haste, let's not say otherwise. The case mentioned here by Bjelovar, the Council knows about it and the Council has initiated proceedings with the state authorities because it is a crime and the police are dealing with it. That's all I'd like to say. And what seems very important to me in this place since I am here for the first time we will meet if not more often then always on those annual reports where you will be able to ask me everything you think is relevant and what I have to answer. But what I think is important to me at this point because this is a very high home, and Mr. Maric said that truth is terribly important in life, especially in the development of a society. So I just want to say one thing about me here is one big lie. I don't even want to say it again, but I'm warning you something. When untruth is repeated, it becomes a habit and is treated as truth. I wouldn't want this respectable home to get something like that in the future. And one more thing. I know how old I am and I'm proud of my age. Maybe they could have chosen a younger person, why not. I stuck to the public call criteria. Why they chose me is what the people who chose me know. I didn't choose myself. If they put in a public tender to look for a person who's young by characterizing it and being asked for car shows believe me honestly tell you I wouldn't answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70335	I thank the respected Mirjana Rakic. We have a single replica reported. Representative Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70336	Thank you. I would agree with most of what Mrs. Director has concluded, regardless of how little she came out of the topic we're discussing today, but we've been coming out of it in our discussions, so we respect that. But as far as this High House and the election are concerned. If this House had respected the argument, respected the political consensus that we had in a series of appointments from Croatian broadcasters, from HINA, that conflicts of interest had been avoided which they had not, that it had been different for the past two years then perhaps the opposition representatives would have looked differently at the things that come and the currents. But unfortunately, it wasn't like that, and we don't have anything to believe that it's going to be different by now. The future will show it. And as you said, we will meet, we will be pleased, as we did today, and we welcomed that you have come to submit a report and for a period for which you are not responsible. As far as everything else is concerned, each of us has its own worldview. Many of us are also told lies on public television that are perceived and repeated and that we deal with every day on the streets of this city. I'm talking in person now. It's been mentioned many times and I can understand you from that side. But you have to understand us, too, because I assure you that there has been repeated over and over again something that wasn't true. In that sense, I still have an apology, in that sense I think it was also necessary to say it in this House of Commons, and the future will show whether we were rightly concerned or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70337	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. I thank the respected Mirjana Rakic. We're crossing, we're gonna skip one point. It's the Law of Theatres. Namely, the Committee has not discussed the proposal to amend the law. He'll do it tomorrow at 1:00, and we'll discuss that point tomorrow afternoon. Report on the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2012. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2012 is hereby adopted." Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. The conclusion was accepted with 108 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is a report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2012 which shows that business with state stock in the reporting year takes place in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act prescribed for the budget and budget users and the decisions and records of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law states that strategic stockpiles are created to secure basic supplies during a time of war or direct threat, independence, uniqueness and survival of the Republic of Croatia and in the case of major natural disasters and technical and technological environmental disasters. Stock supplies can be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in the event of disaster, humanitarian aid and in the event of the participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad and goods supplies cannot be used to stop disturbed stability on the market itself. In accordance with the legal provisions, a regular annual list of strategic stock stocks was published as of 31.12.2012. A total of 84 locations were published, at 83 locations were prescribed commissions, warehouses were also attended by representatives of the State Inspectorate or authorised employees of the supply office. Directors were present at 69 locations and state inspectors at 14 locations. Furthermore, the report shows that in the structure of the strategic stock stocks in 2012 the highest value is 15 product types and that euro diesel fuel with 25, tent and bags, Polish beds and blankets and sheets 14, meat 10. The wheat 9th, lube 7%, meat and fish and other cans 6% and a whole day's dry meal about 58%. It is also evident that a complete balance has been made on the strategic supply of goods worth 33.3 million kuna and 85 tonnes of meat cans, 151 tonnes of milk powder, 6 200 tonnes of wheat, etc. What is mentioned here, the directorship spends every year in accordance with Article 16. The Strategic Stocks Act on the acquisition of the strategic stocks itself and the report found that in 2012 a number of activities were carried out and basic business characteristics were regular and exceptional control of the state of supply, 38 supervisions were carried out, further respect of contracted persons, the obligation of warehouses, the purchase of strategic supplies was carried out as I said in the amount of HRK 33 million. In addition, the revenues generated by the State supply operations have been paid to the single account of the state budget. The costs and storage and renewal of the strategic stock are maximumly rationalised and the stocking of stocks is continuously implemented and in line with the financial opportunities or availability of State budget funds and funds from regular operations with strategic commodity stocks, without prejudice to the functionality of the strategic stocks. The emphasis in further business should primarily be placed on the provision of funds for the supply of goods and the fill-in of balances and strategic stocks in order to be able to react to the Law on Predicted Situations, the revision of the existing balance sheet and the adjustment of the same current economic situation, the further modernisation of its own storage space and the continued gradual introduction of the purpose of the devasted storage space in areas of special state care so that it can be leased or reach financial resources for the operation of the stockpiles changes to the legal provisions which would contribute to the greater legal protection of strategic supply supplies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70341	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will speak the esteemed Dragutin Glava, please welcome the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70342	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a report on the state and management of strategic stock supplies for 2012 with financial indicators from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As far as stockpiles are concerned, from creation, renewal, provision of space for their accommodation and storage, to the rights and duties of state and other bodies in the management of commodity supplies, is governed by the Strategic Stocks Act. The law also defines the needs for which they are created. This is what the Deputy Minister was now talking about, to repeat what is most important, is the era of war, of threat, of state survival, of natural disasters, of technical and ecological disasters, and also when it can be sent as an emergency aid to other countries. What should be pointed out is that the Stock Stocks Act excludes their use to eliminate disturbances and instability on the market except in previous cases that I have quoted and refer to the law. When we talk about the rights and duties of the state authorities, the Law also states in the report that administrative, professional and economic transactions in the supply business are carried out by the State Department of Stocks, which continues its business as an administrative organisation in the composition of the Ministry of Economy. It used to be the Ministry of Economy, crafts and a small economy. For 2012, the Directorate drawn up basic financial reports and submitted them on the prescribed forms to the competent ministry, the financial agency and the State Audit Office. Only the report, as we can see, consists of eight reporting parts that each of them speaks for itself about each segment of activity from a financial picture of the state of supply, their financing, to the role of stockpiles which may be too limited in the regulation of the situation as compared to when there is a disturbance in some economic flows and caused by natural disasters or some kind of disaster. Stock supplies must be so qualified to intervene in such cases as soon as possible. The business of all those involved in the operations of stockpiles, suppliers, warehouses to the recipient of their goods requires financial discipline and control because precisely irresponsible business without control in the most part contributed to the amount of outstanding claims on the stock. It is therefore interesting to see this claim structure table, as well as to review the claim on 31 December 2012 by companies that are larger than 1 million kuna, as well as the review of registered claims in 2012. The total amount was registered at a total of 37 million 437 thousand kuna related to claims from 1991 to 2000. It is a pity that the report does not state how many of these 379 million and 955,000 kunas were registered in last 2013 or how much is planned to be entered in this 2014 and perhaps later years. It would also be interesting to know what year these claims were made. From 2000 to 2011 and in '12, respectively. Because they're huge amounts. The value of the claim at the end of 2012 is 383 million and the stock value of 333 million and the value of its own warehouses 114 million, i.e. the total value of the assets of 427 million and the value of most contaminated claims 308.3 million. It is positive that the amount of the claim was reduced by the end of 2012 compared to 2011, as well as an increase in the value of the stock stocks to agricultural products. As for the business of the directorship itself, it is evident that the lack of income in 2012 is covered by the surplus income of previous years, and the non-exhaustive portion will also be spent in 2013. Finally, the report sets out a review of the state of supply, the number and results of controls on the implementation of agreements in the storage and use of goods of strategic stock, which states that a better choice of warehouses is made by selecting better quality companies, that measures are taken to protect and quality goods, and only operations of goods of strategic stock are carried out with quality insurance instruments. The Directorate also carried out other operations from the sale and purchase of supplies, goods relocations to the realization of decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report lists all government decisions, from the decision to grant aid, to the renewal of strategic supplies to the sale of supplies by public tender. My colleagues and colleagues in this report may conclude that the work of the Directorate in 2012 was correct, and I will not repeat it. The HNS Club will support this 2012 State and Management Report with financial indicators. Since there's still plenty of time, here's a question I'd like to ask. Since I come from the area where 3 lakes are located, the hydro-accumulation plant Varazdin, Čakovec and Dubrava, that these are large-scale lakes, our Peručko is the largest artificial lake in Croatia, but I must say that there is also a high probability of hamaria, i.e. the possibility Yes, there is. [[/Intruder Stazic: Does this have anything to do with stockpiles?]] There's also an accident, I'm asking, since I haven't seen the possibility anywhere in the equipment by 2012, or equipment that would be available for intervention in such cases, is it possible that in 2014 certain means of supply of such equipment are foreseen? [[Come on, then go on.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70343	Thank you. We will be introduced to the positions of the HDZ Club by our esteemed colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So we could say in obvious terms one technical report, but the technical report that we can basically divide into 3 parts and that it says, maybe every part speaks for itself, but maybe the most interesting part is this last part and given what's been hitting us these last two days, which is floods, which is that the strategic supplies have never been filled up enough since the wartime, and we can always say the same thing that never enough funds to the supply directory to fill those warehouses. But what I'd like to say is, the one who doesn't deal with material financial bookkeeping, very hard to follow this report because we haven't done much well and I want to say that here at the beginning, then I'll explain some things for the simple reason when you report that you have a financial material report, then it's clearly defined how it's done. And if you look at it here, it jumps off the stock list, and then it's about the annual billing, and then you have text revenues, and then the text expenditures come to us, then you have a list of claims and liabilities and an integral part of the inventory. So, the logical thing would be that this report... with some introductory explanation for the simple reason to be able to track it by those less understanding certain things, to display a table of receipts and expenditure on the income table if you have income from the previous year, then you have to indicate the revenues of the previous year. Because here anyone looking at this report if you look at the income table and if you look at this initial text section anywhere you have no indication that you have a previous year's income transfer of 26 million, only at the end when you have expenditures and when you explain the expenditure then you're just saying that you're part of the expenditure that's bigger than the income compared to 2012. So it's in this part. After that, it would be a logical thing to do a complete inventory review that should be divided into several segments. One of these 83 controls was carried out at the warehouse, so to speak, where the state or the directory stored the stock and that this report shows the exact state of these supplies here if you notice only at the end of somewhere you have a sign in the signature of those supplies that one or two warehouses with a storage of lush oil have identified shortages of some 500 and a few thousand livable oils and have been found to have far more water than lush oil. But it should be an integral part of what's being said about inventory. And after that should go the table in which there is talk of obligations that are not charged, this table is made of quality and there is nothing to object to. But what's crucial is looking at the years when these commitments were made is one part of war or war years and the question is given in the text part I've seen but it's somewhere much later it's not next to these tables so I say it's hard to connect and monitor it all, and that's let's say that NAMA owes 129 million kuna. And now I'm asking if those 129 million in these 300 and some more million claims or if they're any extra claims. But since US has a high value of assets, these buildings are because the state has claims with NAMA on the basis of taxes, since the state-owned company Croatia insurance also had large claims with NAMA regarding certain obligations, then the logical thing is that the 139 million now also raises the question of whether the total state claim on NAMA is these 139 million or whether these are any additional claims. Therefore, it would be good to systemically table these tables and then who reads it all together is clearly a logical thing if you do a review of the claim on 31st December 2012 to list all of them together or maybe put that table to specifically indicate companies that are in bankruptcy, and US has been bankrupt for decades and more and then whoever reads these tables is far more transparent and has a clear situation. This is how one who is a little less involved in finance, and this part is very difficult to manage because you cross 4, 5, 6, 7 pages then you get back the information that is related to what you read on the first page. And a very complex topic therefore very difficult to follow in such a way is a suggestion for a future time because I repeat you are returning from the topic on the subject and then finally you have a proposal to commit. And then when you look at the explanation for these obligations this text section on page 17, believe me, I've read it several times but I couldn't understand it. It's about this wheat buy-in loan then you say that this wheat was sold 100 million more expensive than the wheat was bought, that the storage of the wheat was 76 million means by that logic there were some 24.25 million kuna, and there is still a word saying that whoever raised that loan for the purchase of that wheat had reached 24 million surpluses remained in debt and was waiting for a reply from the Ministry of Finance. So one very, very strange concept of report and it's very difficult to follow. So that's what you're talking about in this point 4.2. Review of the obligation, loan commitments and foreign loans, you're talking about a loan of 213 million. At the same time in the text section, you say that the loan-based obligation of 213 million kuna, which was the 2004 foundation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 2005 and the sixth floor, the principaly carried out the sale of the bought-out wheat and made the revenues of 303 million from that income, was made to pay the costs of storage, etc. Out of 76 million, the directorate made a repayment of 226 million credits. Now, if there's a loan refund, then what are these 213 million loans to? So because here... 213,21 and here it is said that income has been achieved and that from the basis of the loan these are the means of interest and principal return of 226 million. [[/The speaker talks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] Well, according to that, if it's returned, then it can't be reviewed. So I'm telling you that these tables have to be systematically complicated and then how you read them answers are being imposed on you because I haven't been able to read this myself since it's the exact same amount. On the one hand, he says that such an amount is in charge on the other hand that it has been returned, on the third hand, that the Ministry of Finance needs to approve something. I don't understand what needs to be approved if the one who kept that wheat was sold by the government's decision at a far higher price than he paid and covered the storage costs. So I don't see what other obligations he has. Now, if we declare this report, this last sentence will remain in force, during 2013 in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, it will seek to make a solution regarding the stated commitment. Now, the logical thing would be, given that 2013 was over, and since the Deputy Minister submitted the report, that he told us whether something was agreed with the Ministry of Finance under that provision... I say by agreeing these figures, it is not clear what should have been agreed, so I am asking you nicely, Mr Deputy, that you may pay attention to that because probably next year, when we discuss, actually this year's report 2014, that we don't have the same table, in fact, in 2013 that we don't have the same table. And then we end up selling, buying, that's something that's, uh, re-location of goods. To tell you the truth, I don't understand what it means under the relocation of the goods, what you wanted to do with it. A large relocation was made from the producer's warehouse in the stock directory, the realisation of the Government of Croatia's decision on a one-time trade aid to Caritas. If it's one-time help, it means that the goods went to Caritas and that she no longer exists at the warehouse and that there's no way to talk about re-location of the goods. The relocation of the goods is when you move it from the warehouse to the warehouse. I think I'm asking you to take a good look at some things. And says the Directorship of Stocks has made a re-location of oil for 3 % S storage in order to restore it in accordance with the rules on the quality of oil derivatives. For this reason, from the warehouse of the Directorship Oil for depositing is re-located to new locations where it will gradually... for oil for depositing with 1% S in accordance with the regulation. Look, it's two things and we can't talk about re-location. We can talk about the relocation of the same goods, but if we say that in stock stores we have to have a pot of oil with 3% S and a lot of oil with 1% S then we have to have that amount. So we can transfer one type of goods from one location to another, but we can't say that one type of goods was transferred to another warehouse because we're going to replace it with this. Then we need to change our decision on the strategic stock. Then this whole front story doesn't work for you. So I'm telling you that the simple report wasn't well done because if it was done according to the rules of the profession then this just couldn't happen. Because when you look here, look up at the table, look here you're talking about 3 S and 1 S, and you have only a kilo and 5 million 788 thousand oil in the table. So you don't have two types of oil to lay down. So that's about the report. And another thing, Mr. Deputy Minister, so all government decisions if you want to indicate who the government gave the goods to, from Caritas and beyond, should be a special head in the warehouse. Why, because these goods are no longer in storage and in order to justify the exit from the warehouse, the Government must make a decision to give those goods to someone or to give them back to someone, but to return them. Or let's say what was well done, what the government started to do, and these were those famous water tanks that were lying on the supply supply, no one used them, and at the same time voluntary fire departments and in the northern part of Croatia, without speaking in Dalmatia, they didn't have such vehicles, and these vehicles fell into stock for 10-15 years, they weren't used. That's an extremely good move. And perhaps in the future, given that today and Croatia both look much different than it looked 5-6 years ago and given the different trading network, their supplies, since we have some producers and at home, and given the HANDA and some other agencies that have to provide strategic supplies regarding fuel, perhaps we should consider that this Ministry of Stocks and Stocks should look a little different. And maybe we've done a report like this saying that they're laying down the rules of the profession, and then maybe we'd just be referring to it, but here I'm just warning you, Mr. Deputy Minister, that this page 21 and 22 will read and you'll see that there's a little discrepancies and I can tell you completely that with all these objections that I said at the outset about the report itself and about its inconsistencies, but I can say that what's been given in the closing notes has gone wrong again and the pears and apples and again we're mixing something that just isn't. The conclusion should include what we find to be our situation with the goods supply and what we need to make these supplies adequate for Croatia's needs in some natural disasters or other disasters, and when we hit other countries and when we move on, it should be the conclusions. And look at what it says here in its conclusions, that there has been a lack of revenue of 17 million kuna and it is covered by a transferable surplus of income and income from earlier years. This should have been established in the first table in the first chapter where income and expenditure is talked about and it cannot possibly be in the conclusions because it is not any conclusion, it is simply a mathematical accounting operation where we have summed up the left and right sides and we have found that. But in any case, what you said, we support that, if this is possible in any way, although it will be very difficult in view of the budgetary situation, provide additional funds for the purchase and restoration of strategic supplies, although I say given the different situation in Croatia as regards both trade chains and goods and all and any private storage, in particular, as regards wheat. Perhaps the problem of some supply supplies can be solved differently, but in any case I would recommend that this report be done as standard one material-financial and accounting report and then anyone interested in the Assembly will be able to read and be able to see because also colleague Glavin on behalf of the HNS Club is talking about some things. We have a number of things here, but it's also evident that 90% of these claims will unfortunately not be charged. Why, because it was created 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or... years ago...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70345	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70346	Okay, thank you very much. And so we will be restrained about this report because it is simply not technically well done and offers no solution to make it better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70347	Thank you. I now call for the pay phone of respected Igor Radenovic to present the SDP club's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this report. Since it shows and shows that in the reporting period, therefore, in the period 2012 operations with strategic stockpiles took place in accordance with the rules applicable to the budget and budget users in accordance with the law adopted in 2002, and with the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I also say in that opening statement why I say it's in accordance with the regulations. Some previous years it has not been so and must make you happy that things in this year...... We talked about some previous years of fellow Shuker about Đakovština, we discussed it before. [[You can't hear it.]] It's not my intention to go back to that history. But I also support those things that you said that this report is possible to fix. This report is a major step forward compared to the report adopted by this House in previous years. They were much shrubs, much more vague, not going into history. So, people from the Department of Stocking, the Ministry of Economy, have taken a significant step forward. Whether he's enough is obviously not and I agree with you here. Together with some colleagues, counterpart Mandic and fellow Milosevic, I am sitting in the Committee on Stocks and we are practically daily adopting, daily at sessions three months by adopting quarterly reports and half-yearly reports we give certain suggestions. The people of the Department of Stocks accept them, so we're moving forward in this regard. Even with the very name here, I was warned by some people who are much better at understanding it. We missed it somewhere in the title, so this report this letter "s" that as a report on stock stock management for 2012 with financial indicators. We don't need that. It stands on the very sides of the Parliament, so it stands in stock and that would be a far happier solution for the future. Somewhere in the government, this letter appeared, and it caused confusion and we copied it. It still stands well on the sides of the Parliament, so here is clear for both the record and the future to mention it. Therefore, funds for the financing of commodity stocks are provided in the state budget, primarily in the state budget, and from the lease of the warehouse and the sale of stockpiles, the creation, renewal, distribution, use and use of supplies, and the provision of storage space and storage of supply were carried out in accordance with the balance sheet, which determines the types, quantities of goods and their territorial distribution. The criteria were established, therefore, by the methodology of assessing the number of inhabitants, the time needed to address the nutritional needs. Well, let's just remember, that's been a long time, though, over the past year, around those pâtés a lot. What's their name? Chicken pate, so there were a lot of funny writings about it, and it was right through this principle of nutritional needs for the structure of the population, by age and sex, of all religious groups, etc. , etc., per sustainability, time period and technology of distribution, certain risks, and geographical, climate and economic specificities. But that I would not repeat all of this by estimating your time simply to mention that goods stocks are said in this report in the last three years have also been used for international humanitarian aid for the Republic of Turkey, for the Republic of Afghanistan, for the Russian Federation, for the Republic of Bulgaria, for Romania and Albania and that the value of these funds has been slightly more than 7 million kuna and also for the aid and strategic goods supplies I say for that period of three years in the total amount of 37 million, almost 38 million kuna in the Republic of Croatia and as a rule to the Red Cross, the Caritas, Merhamet, etc. etc. Not to list those who are interested in it in detail is shown. My predecessors mentioned the basic value of this report, i.e. The basic characteristics of the business are that the increase in the income of the business itself and the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets is a reduction of short-term claims and obligations with a slight increase in long-term demand and reduced and short-term claims for revenues are paid into the budget as well as claims from customers. The total deficit achieved here agrees with Mr. Shucker could be better shown, but in the end it is visible. However, it requires a little more energy, so 17 million kuna shortfall has been achieved, covered with surpluses from previous years so that now the surplus that has remained stands with 9 million 138 thousand kuna. Of course they're accounting values. Filling in the supply supply is also necessary in these difficult times. As a result of the very and elemental disasters that are very often and increasingly evident, let us remember the snow in Split two, three years ago. Let's remember this recent situation today, the recent situation in Gorski Kotar. Obviously, we all need to consider together that strategic stock supplies must redefine their position. In fact, we in the Croatian Parliament, our honorary predecessors brought, the balance of the strategic stock was brought, in fact, the government brought further distances in 2004 along with the law. But as I said, the time that stands before us creates new challenges, and it is evident that out of the existing practice and the very functioning of the supply supply supply, but also from these words, the recent climate and all other changes are necessary and to define the goods themselves. Therefore, in the work of the Council, I say in which the colleagues both Mandić and Milosevic and two other experts from the ranks are involved, so the experts selected on our body, so on the basis of the public tender in the Croatian Assembly, are suggested and I must say accepted by the manager, the Director of the stockpiles and by the Minister himself, that a new balance of strategic commodity stocks is proposed within a reasonable period of time, and this is also in quantitative and qualitative form. Some of the guidelines showed that. You know that this is also a particular, not specific but real secret, and according to Article 9 of the Law, the type, name, quantity and basic territorial distribution is determined by the Government. And as far as I'm concerned, that proposal to the government will come in relatively soon. But it is already a whole other topic, and we will likely discuss it in future times, i.e. in the course of this year, which is ahead of us, i.e. Which we are in, 2014 Since I'm just saying there are certain shortcomings in the report, but it is a significant step forward, the SDP Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70349	Thank you. We have a single line reported, Your Honor Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70350	Well, colleague Radjenovic, I'm glad you've made up your mind later on about this business in 2011. You see, as an opposition representative, I did not want to use the pâté case even though it refers to 2011. Why? Because it is an extremely important debate and how important this debate was best felt by the residents of Gorski Kotar a week ago and how important this topic has been since yesterday evening for the residents and Karlovac, unfortunately both Zagreb and my Velika Gorica. Because if we had recorded all the aggregates in the Republic of Croatia and how many private companies there are and how many of them there are in civil protection or this in voluntary fire companies, we were able to connect Gorski Kotar within 24 hours with the aggregates and we could solve the problem of electricity. And since it's an extraordinary situation, it means that it can be practically, sometimes it's said to mobilize property, it's taken that someone doesn't need something right now because it's a state of emergency and they come back normally right when they need it. But unfortunately, I don't have that kind of record. That's why I said it's a good thing that certain fire tanks from the stock went where they were supposed to and where they were used all the time instead of standing on this because these accidents unfortunately don't happen. However, with the floods in Zagreb and the surrounding area, so, Velika Gorica and Karlovac, I'm just asking myself a question I'm going to talk about more when we discuss the Croatian Waters report or something because they've had government decisions since 2010 after the big flood when the Sava rash broke and now the question is whether these state-owned companies have implemented those decisions and whether certain floods would happen today. The second thing is, they spend a lot of money a year, hundreds of millions on channel cleaning, Velika Gorica, Zagreb is flooded just because the canals are not cleaned, and it also belongs to the rest of this because it is likely that part of the supply will have to go to the ground to help these people who are threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70351	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we need to edit in many fields and one is the letters of law and the other are unfortunately practices that work, how much laws are respected and then when it writes a question as much and how, but it's already a matter of executive authority. We here have to try to improve the legal regulations ourselves and then, yes, through the reports, see if they're doing it right. I don't know what you heard. In previous years, I said, I meant Đakovština, what was happening in 2008, 2009 etc. Unfortunately, here we are over these children’s diseases that have been happening. At least I hope we won't be able to reverse some manipulations of any maputt manipulation, etc., all of these are the times behind us, which are what they are and about which we pay many things today. What is final and I'm glad that we agree on that is that I should say we should define the obvious and positions as I said both quantitatively and qualitatively, some quantities, let's say we have a lot of vegetarians and nutrients, etc. Now that I'm not saying what all of that stuff contains, some of it just ate time. Simply today life goes differently, what was the needs of 2004 today are not, climate change has changed and I am glad that there is understanding on that side. I say, in my debate, I wanted to also commend and constructive approach by colleagues from so-called HNS fellow Mandic and fellow Milosevic who therefore made an active contribution to their proposals. The position of the stockpiles advice that you have all appointed us to is such that, as I would say, accelerates processes within the Ministry itself and, therefore, the Directorate for Stocks and the Government makes final decisions. We have done everything on behalf of all of you on our behalf to speed up this procedure and to process the Ministry of Economy as soon as possible before this proposed balance of strategic stock. That's obviously what this country needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70353	Thank you. With the views of the Croatian Labour Club – the parties of work will introduce us to the esteemed colleague Nancy Tyrelli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I agree with what's been said that given all the weather we've been having here, we have to be extremely sensitive to the supply and take care of them if anything else is due to such situations. However, by reading this report, what intrigued me most, and what I can say in one sentence is that I read that antifreeze, fish cans and lye oil have disappeared from the stock reserves. So, that's what concerns me personally because I always ask questions about how if we follow something, if we focus on it, if we worry about it, it might happen to us that about 500 or some tons of oil or a lot of oil is more precisely gone, which must happen in the system that we simply don't see or ultimately allow them, but here's the 2012 State Audit report on the Ministry of Economy has identified certain irregularities which, in their opinion, are, in part, due to the unsatisfactory functioning of the internal control system and, as such, have affected the expression and conditional opinion of the state audit, and certainly these deficits in the goods strategic stocks are one of the work. As far as the report itself is concerned, the report is what it is for 2012 with all its facts and with all the shortcomings it has as such, but I would really like, given that the Deputy Minister is here today, with an explanation of what goods are and why we use them to try to answer a few questions, or I'm interested in those 37.5 million registered claims from stock stores, and now that we're looking at the report as we see it, or it says in the report that these claims are mostly controversial from there somewhere in 2003, we're here in 2014. I won't really go by these tables which are companies, amounts are extremely large, but I would like to get an answer and I won't be longer bound by this report because more or less everything about it has been said. I would really like to get an answer to the question tonight as to how it is possible for companies that reported the lack of goods against which the criminal application was filed in 2000, the state failed to do anything to collect their claims, given that the vast majority of these 24 companies were deleted from the court register in 2012. So we've had 12 or 14 years to settle our claims, and I'm just perhaps naively asking why this hasn't happened in the last 14 years, and has anyone at the Ministry of Economy or in the Directorate ever been responsible for these failures, specifically for the 37.5 million kunas we've written down? Namely, when companies are deleted from the court register, they can do so for several reasons, or with several grounds. It is either the liquidation or the bankruptcy or the 2 years in a row that have not submitted annual financial reports, and I would even say that it may not be questionable that those who have ceased to exist as business entities in these 12 or 14 years, but I am more concerned by the very employees of the state administration who have not provided the claims in time and in such a way, given what they are doing in the matter of the protection of state property, have protected that same state property. We are now reading here that, say, a lot of oil is missing, that a solution has been issued to return that lot of oil to the warehouse, but that didn't happen, no one returned the oil, a criminal application was launched and a financial burden was issued at market prices. It was in 2012 and if we continue this way and we take up this state property management policy, responsibility for this state property, then in 10 years we will be reading a similar report on strategic stock reserves again some information that some items or some millions are simply registered. And I'm asking here a question, since 2000, 2001, 2002 or 2003, why did the State Attorney's Office, together with the Ministry of Economy, which has been initiated by these 24 entities, 13 criminal applications, not put in some kind of note, or in some way, provided with the assets of those companies that were simply charged by an acceptive order, and that, after that, it seems that in a full 12 or 14 years, no one really bothered to see what was going on and how we protected our state claims and that we were able to from these vast 24 companies that went into bankruptcy in the meantime to collect something, did these companies really have any property or were business partners again state, and without having any property? So these are the questions I'd like to get an answer to tonight. And of these 13 criminal charges that have been filed if I can, here are the Deputy Minister of Economy, since the Ministry of Economy is responsible for the stock reserves, I, all of us here, and probably the Croatian public. Did these 13 criminal charges produce any fruit, and did any of these 13 reported persons answer for 37.5 million kuna? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70355	Thank you. We have an individual discussion. Dear colleague Nadica Jelash has signed up, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70356	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd say this report in that conceptual sense was quite solidly done, so especially from earlier years. We know what reports we've received before, what I am absolutely more concerned about is the content of this report. So there are a lot of bad numbers in this report, and I have to say that these bad numbers date back to the last few years. So I'm going to say something first about the inventory on December 31st, 2012. Namely, the strategic stock as we read from this report is stored at 68 warehouses and they are all covered by inventory in the state of the last days of 2012. The comparison of the situation established by the list with the situation recorded in the trade bookkeeping of the Department of Stocks, established inventory deficits, i.e. primarily on supplies of anti-freeze, fish cans and oil lodges. What is not good, therefore, is not mentioned anywhere how valuable these deficits are, although here from this search of the claim on 31 December 2012 it is possible to see some of these gaps, but only where the basics of the debt are shortfalls. Where several grounds of debt have been expressed, there is no longer any indication of the size of the deficit. It is also seen from the report that some of the misdemeanor and criminal proceedings are being initiated, but since there is no indication of where the deficits occurred, I think it would be very good in the future to show exactly where these deficiencies were identified in view of the very bad experiences we have from previous years, so I will remind you of the Đakovština case. It would be very good for warehouses where these inventory deficits are definitely and forever deleted from the records of potential or potential warehouses. Therefore, those who have sinned in the manipulation or availability of goods are no longer warehouses. And now a few sentences about the financial outcome itself. Therefore, revenues were made at an amount of €28.5 million, expenditure of €45 million. Compared to 2011, expenditure increased as much as 3.3 times. But that is, to the most extent, as we can see, the consequences of the fact that the cost of purchasing strategic supplies has increased more than 10 times. So in 2012, in a literal sense, the word was a year of a more significant renewal of the strategic stock. This fact of these major delays in the strategic stocks has significantly affected the financial outcome of the business, so we see that the financial result is negative, i.e. the loss of 17.2 million kuna. However, in the previous year 2011, the excess income over expenditure is this deficit in 2012 covered by the 26 million kuna transferred surplus so that the final result in 2012 is positive and amounts to 9 million kuna. What is most intriguing to me and has already been drawn to this by my predecessors in the debates is the data on claims and data on supply obligations as the most important forms of property and resources. Unfortunately, there are no data in the report on the total assets and total liabilities, so we don't know what the share of these claims and liabilities are in the total assets and total sources. So on the 31st of December 2012, requests amounted to over 383 million kuna, as many as 30% of total claims were claims from customers by not knowing which ones had arrived, which is not because there are also French claims, and another 30% and that is what is very bad about interest you account for customers because of the untimely settlement of debts to stock stocks. Therefore, these two figures, in particular this information on the amount of tight interest, indicate how irresponsibly they managed the goods stocks, that they did not take measures at all for the timely payment of the claim. This finding further strengthens the information on the commitments which states that the total liabilities of the stock stocks on the last day of December 2012 amounted to 214 million kuna, thus almost the total amount of loans taken from foreign banks. So stock reserves are in charge of stock financing, loans are taken, and their claims fail to be charged. So we have huge outstanding claims. Obviously, therefore, we can conclude that the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia actually paid twice the stock. From the company search, we see that most of these claims are over 10 years old, so let's say we have NAMA that's absolutely the largest amount of 123 million kuna he dates back to 1999, so we have a class from New Gradiška 64 million kuna from the '97-2000 period, or let's say Bednja Ludbreg 23 million from 2000.itd, etc. So we have a full checkup. The largest number of these companies is in bankruptcy. And the billability of these claims is very questionable I would say if we knew what our bankruptcy experiences are, so the chargeability is zero. And the man wonders, were those goods actually self-services for certain companies and certain individuals of course? That it thus confirms that the stockpiles are based on the judgment of the court, by closing bankruptcy and by deleting from the court or trade register in 2012 they wrote down claims in total amounting to more than 37 million kuna. So it's mostly about the claims from 1991 to 2000. So what's the fact it's forever lost money 37 million kuna. And I'm going to conclude in the end, the state and the taxpayers, so I'm putting an accent on the taxpayers right here, they've lost huge money through the supply system, and I want to believe that the directorship in this next period in this segment, so a segment of supply will introduce more order mostly for two reasons. So the first reason is the strategic importance of stock reserves, and the second reason is that they are financed by public money, so taxpayers' money. I think it gives one need for a huge responsibility to be made available, or to be in a supply business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70357	A respected counterpart, Igor Radinovic, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, given the late hour, I often say that to some colleagues if we pull out a single ton excerpt that's 10 seconds short so it doesn't get all wrong, here's another undertone and we don't actually have to kill the messenger. You yourself said you have far more experience than I have in this House that the reports of previous years have not been so detailed and virtually did not include all this review of the claim and one historical aspect. So it is also clear from the figure when we show this in more detail that the attention of a good master obviously did not take place in full form all previous years, as well as the collection of claims, etc. What is good and what the directorship has done on one side has drawn the line, so this is also visible through this report. Although I agree with my colleague Schucker's debate in front of HDZ that this could have been done even better, even more transparently, that these figures could have been more legible, but we have taken a significant step forward. And that for the future and that's why I'm saying I hope we're over these children's diseases and that we're now seeing where we are, which is how we are, the question is how many, fellow Tyrelli has mentioned companies that are practically deleted from the court register because they don't exist for more than 15 years, and on that side they've stayed here in these balance sheets. It's important that we draw the line here, but it's important that we take that step further, so that the Director's Department of Stocks and that's what I believe should come out as a lesson from this debate, to make one... that would say, balances and strategic stockpiles that as soon as possible before it proposes to the government. And these things that are managed in strategic stockpiles by a good master, I think that by coming to the Kukuriku coalition, the coalition becomes standard and will remain standard for future times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70359	The replica matches the esteemed Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70360	My colleague Rajenović, I fully agree with this one of yours, I'll say "a lesson". So it's a huge claim that's left unpaid, so it's got to be one historic mortgage, something behind us, and we're going to look, we're going to watch it every year according to the management's reports whether it's really going forward. We believe the report will get better every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70361	The closing word belongs to Deputy Minister of Economy Alan Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70362	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's just maybe a few comments about today's debate. ... /The noise in the hall./... The esteemed representative of Glava asked about...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70363	Excuse me. My colleagues and colleagues, I know it's late, but get serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70364	The esteemed representative Glavina asked about the northern Croatian area, or the possibility of flooding. In most parts, we have power plants, etc. and what has now happened in the rest of Croatia. The Ministry of Economy or the Directorate for Stocks this year will hold a tender for the purchase of ships or boats that will allow for the transfer of people and property when there is a elemental disaster such as flood or God forbid a major disaster. I would also like to thank you for this debate today and for the proposals to improve this report, as well as for the 2013 report, which will soon be on the trail of this debate today and better quality, i.e. will be made, going towards being more readable and that all figures that are inside will be well discussed. Thank you very much. Just that, the question of the distinguished representative Tyrelli, you saw from the table of the Ministry of Economy or the Administration used all possible instruments available for the problems that have arisen, or this part of the table, the claims that we have in 2012, or you saw that criminal charges have been raised and I think that's enough to talk about the seriousness to collect the claims we have, whether through criminal charges or any other instruments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70365	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2012 with financial indicators. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, forgive me, in line with the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2012 with financial indicators is accepted." Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. The conclusion was accepted by 107 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We always choose a great term for reports from the national media houses, it's always about eight hours later when everyone is deeply focused on how much we care enough, and the number of people reported for the debate is as I see it, and according to the standards of the esteemed President of the Parliament is a completely irrelevant topic since the President of the Parliament counts normally how many discussions and replicas there are on a particular topic, so this seems to be a completely uninteresting topic. We have a 2012 report ahead of us, and I will stick to it so that it could really be a platform for future work, and to reveal something to us in the period before this report. In July 2011, the Croatian Parliament, today it may seem amazing, unanimously chose the Administrative Council of HINA. Afterwards, parliamentary elections followed, won the Kukuriku coalition and replaced the Council, which it had voted on a few months before. Based on the required addition of the reports, these were preceded by very professional statements by colleagues from the HNS who did not even apply for the hearing today. After we replaced the Governing Council, the new Administrative Council came, the Director was replaced, among other things, by Mrs Simonovic's member of the Administrative Council in an ecluent conflict of interest because, at the same time, as a member of the Administrative Council of HINA, she was appointed to the Council for Electronic Media, in the composition of an independent regulator who should also control HINA. The Committee for Conflict of Interest has brought its opinion on the matter and nothing to anyone. And the lady has been in conflict for months. Awesome media policy. So why do we need a real media strategy when neither the Committee for Conflict of Interest and their opinion that we voted here in the Croatian Parliament and whose report we accepted does not mean anything. Is there still somewhere in Europe that the person sitting in the Governing Council is at the same time in an independent regulator? And if there's anything else in Europe that the Committee of Conflict of Interest still finds out nothing. Let someone give me an example like that. Among other things in 2011 before this report, the Council worked with 4 members. I have to complete here because the then composition of the Ministry of Culture, in agreement with the unions in HINAA, asked the employees to conduct the elections and elect their representative in the Governing Council. And that was done, elections where everyone had the right to vote in which the ministry did not interfere in 2011. What is mentioned here in this Report is that in April 2012, the Council adopted a restructuring programme, that a reorganisation of the administration and information office was envisaged, that a Regulation on the internal organisation and mode of work was adopted, that the mandate of the editor-in-chief was extended, that 11 meetings were held. Among other things, it says in the Council that HINA has built a serious media image over the years. Among other things, it is said that a significant effort was made in 2012 by journalists and editors, which is absolutely correct in order to better position and maintain HINA on the media market. That's what this 2012 report says. If that is true, then what could be the reason for the Board's shift after a few months of the same unanimous vote in the Croatian Parliament. Well, just to get a replacement director and set up a new director and we know from whose party quotas. If this is all true colleagues and colleagues, now reports are usually used to make them better in the future. My colleagues and colleagues, in this House a new budget has been voted in which HINA in 2014 and 2015, may the President of the Council correct me if it is not true, HINA no longer exists in the budget, it is not. Which means that we succeeded in this House by voting such a budget to cut off the second leg of the independence of the media service. One leg of independence of the media service and always the choice of leading people, and the other leg is always financial independence. What is this message from the government that proposed a budget that lacks the resources of the National News Agency? What is this message to editors and journalists for whom the report says that they have made an effort to consolidate and survive in 2012 on the media market. When we asked the Deputy Minister of Culture, then he said something from this pay phone which is so illegal that I don't think the Deputy Minister himself is aware of it. Namely, he said that HINA will continue to be financed from the Croatian Radio Television subscription treated as state aid and must only be financed from it by what is stated in the contract, in the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian Radio Television. What an easy explanation! So that someone reads in Brussels that state aid can fall. First, you will be sued by commercial television, which will then receive a billion kuna for Croatian broadcasting if it falls. Such diletinism, such ignorance, such a ease of negative treatment for everything that has been created for decades is amazing. Such an ease of selling fog and lemonade in the sense that we will finally see a media strategy after more than two years, such an easy salting mind to anyone who wants to show the arguments that this is not going anywhere is amazing. When a man looks at this report on the work of the Governing Council with this, everything I've said with most of it can be agreed. But if we're discussing reports here in this House so they know what we're going to do in the future, and in the future HINA, there's no budget for what the hell we're even discussing. And what is the message of media freedom, the same ones that we read to you today from the portal that the correspondents are without borders, how they assessed the effect of national broadcasting and legal solutions to this action. What message is that to HINA employees? Very clear. For non-profit media that receive money directly from the budget without any criteria, without any prescribed criteria that have secured money in the budget there is no problem with them, and for HINA there is no problem for HINA employees. So if someone said then look there will be funds in the budget, you need to do a reorganisation, you need to do some rationalization, you need some new development plan, and accordingly these are your funding options. I believe that both journalists and editors on HINI would fit in and know how to get over this situation. Is this the end of the Croatian news agency? Is that a message from this one? Is there after that, will we ever discuss these reports again? If this is all true, then why has the principal been removed, then why has the administrative council voted unanimously here after seven months, after bringing all these documents that were listed here been brought in. After elections were held for staff representatives in the board of directors. My colleagues and colleagues, I know this may not bother you so much, but you know all of this always comes with some reaction, it comes sooner or later. It goes through the election in two years or six or ten, which comes later, it's a more severe reaction. The more the slaughter goes to one side, the more it goes back to the other, and that's not good. Who today or tomorrow will ever more in this House be able to claim that a better law according to the model of political consensus or who will ever more be able to say that we have chosen the administrative council unanimously, that it is a better system, that it is better for both this assembly and that institution, very difficult once you derogate it, very difficult. From the HDZ Club we hope and believe that there will be a way to ensure HINA financing in the future, that there will be preserved jobs for editors and journalists in HINA, that HINA will continue to fight for its place under the media sun, that it will continue to deliver news without editorial and journalistic comments from which we sometimes get hair on our heads on HRT rather than news, precise news that I can say in recent times that HINA did anyway. In that sense, colleagues and colleagues, see this report that in the budget you voted for, the HINAs are gone, it doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70369	Thank you. A respected colleague named Sunchana Glavak appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Mesic, speaking of the finances that should be monitored by HINA, the government has also violated the HINA Act, since we have not changed it, although even in the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament, it has been said that the HINA Act should be completed, that it needs to be refreshed, more specifically, that it may need to be changed. Not by putting HINA in budgets or projections for 2015 and 2016 The government broke the law. That's one thing. Secondly, what was explained that HINA should find new alternative funding ways because as such rules are in the EU, it is simply not true. So France is also a member of the EU and France press is their national agency being financed equally from the state budget and I don't think that someone is simply telling us the truth. We warned that we wouldn't want HINA to be hit by the fate of the Vesnik, 50 people were said to get fired, then they told us to make up, not to tell the truth, got them a little less, but that's a lot, 25 people in HINA got fired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70371	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70372	My colleague Glavak, I think what you need more than that, we have said here in the Croatian Parliament, we will vote unanimously and unanimously for the appointment of the administrative board of HINA and the appointment of the Council of Electronic Media if only a person comes out of conflict of interest. It wasn't even accepted. After that, the Committee for Conflicts of Interest adopts an opinion, nor is it accepted, and you are surprised that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not respect the law. Well, it's common practice, it's common practice. The contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia between HRT and the Government has not yet been seen. We'll see at all how the minorities there are represented by what colleagues and colleagues have been saying. Media strategy, media freedom after HDZ darkness, that's a joke, that's a joke. What we have managed to do from public services in two years, we have ten amendments from the media strategy and the addition of the laws that come from the same ministry that formed a special department that without a competition hires a media advisor and then after a small affair happens in the paper, presupposes him to head of the competition department or no competition, what do you think? Who will solve this later, that ballast, and in two years, we get only the changes and additions of media laws without any strategy, without any debate where the deputy minister from the pay phone tells us that she will finance HINA and their work and survival of those people there from the subscription in HRT. The alphabet of knowledge that can be financed from the subscription, the basic alphabet, of course wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70373	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, the respected Mladen Novak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70374	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. To be honest, I'm sorry there are no colleagues in Vuksic, not because I don't know what you think about this, but this was more than convincing, but I think this is an extremely dangerous situation. Whether I want to admit it or not, look at it like this in the late hours with such a shamefully empty maidship being done, so I can't say, I can't find any other adequate expression of crime against the media. I'm not a media man, and I'm not, I don't think I'm significantly different from most average Croats, but in the idea of how important the media is to, in general, democracy, freedom of society. You know, I dropped it now that my colleague Mesic was just talking to me, and when he mentioned it, it was dark, in the freedom of the media. Look at some criteria, we can say that there is democracy in North Korea. There was Dennis Rodman, so that man came freely there, stayed there, I don't know, they took pictures of him all, so there's freedom, if someone like that can walk there, be admitted from, we can also call it. Well, I'm afraid what we're doing is going so slowly in the direction of such democracies. A moment ago, it was about the representation of political parties in the media, so someone mentioned that on the Internet we were on media freedoms, where we are, what we are, and how we are. This if it really turns into destroying HINA through budget cuts for 2015 and '16, I don't know, I can't just find the right expressions as much as I think it is that we as a society are going back. Something that was created once we destroyed is impossible to bring back or very, very hard, and I'm going to read some of what I've marked myself here, I think about my notion is HINA a little bit more than that clean agency, and unfortunately when I remember what kind of agencies we have and how everything works, if something needs to be preserved then it's definitely HINA. At a time of widespread estradisation and tabloidisation of the media scene, HINA should insist on strengthening its position of public media acting on the principles of independent, impartial and professional agency journalism. Well, if something's true, then that's true. Despite the ups and downs, HINA has built an image of a serious media that has been in deep crisis in recent years. And because he's in crisis, he needs to be shut down? Unbelievable. We need to find a way that, okay, we need to adjust the time, find some, eventually there's a lot of suggestions as far as I've seen, but if the solution is to shut down HINA, then it's really sad. HINA is obliged to develop a network of its correspondence. So let's remember and HRT now has no debts, which he did, and the rebellion was from all the county regardless of whose mayors. What's really going to be, one day the diary will start with the words "Good Morning, President" and "The President was doing this today, what" and I don't know what, everything else will be irrelevant, and the rest will be Turkish, Mexican and I don't know what kind of soap operas. So I believe that would suit you, given what you're doing as a government, this comment "what better you do" from the Kukuriku coalition is really in place because it would be better if the whole people were watching Turkish and I don't know whose everything is not soapy than being forced to watch and live what you're giving us. And he stuck me with another detail that my colleague didn't mention. The founder is repeatedly distracted that HINA is the only public media paying VAT at full tax rate. I don't know if it's still like that since this is a 2012 report, but everything, in my opinion, it's more than just some portal, some newspaper, some television that is today from one another, tomorrow from another, this is something more and this is the news that, what my colleague said, goes without comment from the editor or the owner behind the editor. This should be really objective information and if we're destroying it, then we really are, really good-bye to reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70375	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70376	My colleague, look, maybe it's not bad to be on the program of what you said, namely it's going to be much more fun than Turkish soap opera, if it's just contributions to the Prime Minister, namely it's going to be such a show, a respected colleague, that people, if anything, will at least be able to laugh and cry. But look at what is on page 10 of this report, which says without the development of new services and financial investment in development, HINA will not be able to make the necessary step on which its future position and role in the media market depends. The EU media market this time because we have entered the EU in the meantime. So a completely new environment of action from that role when HINA was founded at the beginning of Croatia's modern statehood, when it was necessary for Croatia to have its own information agency in order to oppose Tanjug and some other media power centres. I would like to know how colleagues and colleagues who so advocate Turkish soap operas will vote on this report will vote against it, given that this sentence is directly contrary to what they voted in the proposed budget and its projections. So accept this report is actually in complete contrast to the budget or its projections for next year. And this sentence is correct. This is exactly how HINA should be prepared and financially helped to prepare for completely different circumstances of action, with new technologies, new work programmes and all that one nation or one country of 4.5 million inhabitants needs when it enters the integration of 500 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70377	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70378	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague and I tend to be a little ironic sometimes, and I don't know everything, but I'm not sure this is the right subject for irony. This is honestly real to me that I'm not from that brand, but this is me, I was really horrified when I heard it, and I saw everything going the way HINA shuts down. The difference between this and the times before, I don't know those block divisions is just that we're going to have a bunch of other media that's going to be buried with some yellow, soap, and possibly reports from party groups of normal 8.1 ratios.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70379	A new replica of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70380	Thank you. Well, you told counterpart Novak to shut down HINA that it's a backdrop, that it's the twilight of democracy, but I think it's far more than that. Today, the alphabet and national security and at all the development of a country is that it has a national information strategy because information today is the basic instrument of national power more important than both the military and the economy. What not only do we not have this national information strategy but we have done everything to ensure that the HINA as one of the basic institutions that can provide relevant and objective information simply shut down. The paradox is that even in this already held view that HINA pays 25% of VAT and foreign agencies that place their work information operations, media operations is today how to ensure prestige both in the economy and in politics and in international relations, those who carry out such operations with us are paying for it because... 5 or possibly 10%. Therefore, it is not only that misunderstanding is just a relationship to HIN but it is a misunderstanding of the world in which we live and how we can defend ourselves or how we can have an agency that will not on commercial grounds but at a public service be able to present true and true information so that we can function as a normal society. It is therefore far more and far more difficult than just the principle of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70381	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70382	Thank you very much. Well, I couldn't agree more on what you said about me admitting that I simply didn't remember this part of what you mentioned. I don't think I'm smart enough that someone could really come up with such a crazy idea of going to end HINA. I mean, I still can't believe it. I hope what I know maybe we don't really see a solution that's right in front of our eyes. I believe my colleague Mesic is not from that branch, I believe that the solution that the deputy minister allegedly said is really legally impossible, but given the frequent crack in the changes to the laws that adapt to daily needs, there may be a change of law, so we will have a new law or an existing law simply through him regulate some new form of funding because I hope this is not the end of this agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70383	We're moving on to individual debates. The first in line is a respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, there is yet another report ahead of us, but what we can notice is that we are talking about the 2012 reports and most of them are talking about them, or in this case people who know very little about them don't know about them because they wouldn't know anything about this job but simply because they are new in this business, which means that all those who were in that post in 2012 have been replaced. So that's the fact about the report we're discussing. Another precedent when we were talking about HINA, so as in the case of HRT, we said that HINA is not going a good way that HINA needs to be changed, that HINA needs to be restructured, and then the culprit, the principal and the board of directors were found, and the Board of Directors changed and the principal changed because they were not doing well, because HINA was being led to ruin. That was the argument. And after that you are the same people who have been said to be not doing well and who have been replaced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for their report gives a positive opinion. This is a real precedent, I don't know what I should go on maybe or shouldn't talk about. You know, we'd be wondering who's crazy about that. So these people were removed, the entire Board of Directors and Directors because they didn't work well, said colleagues from the ruling coalition, the government said and then the government sent these same people a positive opinion and said that, you did well. Now, what's actually going on, what's the situation we're going to see when we have a new report ahead of us, but the facts are that the HINA continues to reduce revenues. This was also discussed by the Working Council, which found that they were most concerned by the further decline in market revenues by about half a million kuna, which caused its share in total revenues to fall to only 31, slightly higher, the lowest in HINA's history. So from the announcement of major projects, new services that would draw HINA with new leadership out of the crisis only happened that more than 25 people had been fired, that the only development project of Media Monitoring to be given a chance in my opinion, which should have been developed and should have been left on the market because it was something new that HINA had offered and that, as established by the Working Council, the revenues from the market had fallen again. In this year, HINA again plans to cut revenue by 5%, of which almost 7% are lower revenues from commercial users where the programmes are therefore to position HINA on the market or at least remain on the same income as we see in the 2012 report. For the first nine months, the decline in income is large, and so it will be for the whole year, and it was about 6.6 million kuna. That's almost a 1/3 reduction. What's the trend regarding HINA? Trend is very obvious, it is obvious that the reduction in the number of people and income and information, when it was explained how the restructuring process would be done then it was said that the pearl that HINA took over, which was Vesnik's documentation that was also to be put into operation, simply removed it from HINA, did not know what to do with it, and they said they would take care of those people, that they would be taken over by the Croatian State Archives who took over Vjesnik's documentation. However, they only took over 6 out of 14 people from the former Vesnik file. The functioning or dysfunction of the Governing Council and the conflict of interest has already been discussed by counterpart Mesic. So I ask what is actually happening in HINA, what are the intentions of the Governing Council, what are the intentions of those who chose them there, what will happen with HINA in the future and whether Croatia wants to keep its news agency or maybe news from Croatia will follow some of the agencies in the environment, such as Tanjug. Speaking to me here at 9:00 or noon, I think it doesn't matter because we almost never get the answers to our questions. And finally, for these 25 people who no longer work in HINA, no matter what positions they are in, and there were editorial positions, HINA took a loan for their severances and spent about 200,000 euros long-term stockpile of armed funds. So it's a fine one process of restructuring, saving, so fire people, giving them good severances, spending the supplies we had, getting rid of Vjesnik's files, abolished Media Monitoring instead of developing it. So that's the current position of our news agency. And I can't say again, imagine the situation that HDZ is in power with its coalition partners or that it is in the power of the HSS and that at that moment spokeswoman of the ruling party or of one of the ruling parties becomes head of the national agency. He'd be a mess on the other side of the assembly just like that. So the former spokeswoman, member of the Kukuriku coalition, is director of HINA. Do not slow down her newspaper qualities, but of course wondering how many biases or impartialities there were, you will conclude for yourself. When we talk about the media, it's obvious that something is wrong, when we talk about humanizing, I think it's clear to all of us, and I find it really unusual that otherwise the biggest advocates of media issues, colleagues from the club next to us, are not here today either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70385	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First enlisted by the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glavak, I am glad that you mentioned this Vesnik newspaper documentation here, or whether it was actually one of the basic funds where HINA could develop and one of the development potentials is every news agency, and with it abolishing the simple quality of the media in all of Croatia falls because you no longer have that feedback, the documentation of what happened before and then you can only have the yellowness and interpretation of what is happening in recent times. If we're just going to look at how the other agencies are, the news agencies are working on their role, size, and strength are just depending on the documentation that I have. Going to move it somewhere else, I don't have time to talk about how I can make very profitable companies out of the archives with modern means, but on the side now that. So don't take care of that paperwork, not in mind. It means that there is no idea at all what the role of a national agency like this is and what its place is in the National Information Strategy. It's just another piece of evidence, unfortunately, that all of this leads to one end and damage that simply won't be able to fix so quickly. It is paradoxical that this will mean that we will actually go into one colonisation as well as national cultures, and even worse information one media positioning of Croatia. Because Croatian politics even when it will make good moves He won't be able to, he won't have any way and what to do with it. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70387	The replica corresponds to the respected Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dr. Tudjman, you're right, of course. Vesnik's documentation is part of the history or part of Croatia's treasure. Not only could the press use it. It could, of course, be used in a thousand ways, available to those who will explore that history, to be available to journalists at the very end. Journalists who could do what agencies actually do. We've talked a lot about why we can't talk about HINA as a list of conditional terms dealing with yellow. Because you know exactly how to do agency news and what agencies do. And so, you know what agencies are for. No sensationalism, they must be accurate quotes, and of course it would be quality texts for someone to start using them or to make added value out of that archive, or from that journal's file. Of course he needs funds for that. It's clear to everyone and nobody thought it would happen overnight. You should have given it a chance. And it's a shame, those people who moved from the Vesniks along with valuable documentation they started working on it, on digitization. Of course the project isn't finished. In the end, the entire history of Croatia has not yet been digitised on Croatian broadcasting. No one expects it to happen overnight, but Boja did not expect anyone to leave HINA, to go to the State Archives, or that HINA would remain from zero kuna in 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70389	The replica also brings up the respected Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70390	Dear colleagues, I must disappoint you. The means of digitisation are reductions, so we gave up the project or at least we don't see anything being done on the project of a new central archive storage facility in Kerestinco that should have been the holder of precisely and built and arranged in the best way, the ideal possibility of applying to EU funds. You can defend that you need this to strengthen administrative capacity, you can defend the archive. Not all cultural projects can defend themselves as well for EU funds as the archive can advocate. It's an ideal opportunity, it's all there. The land obtained from the former military station, the project paid for, it just needs to be opened somehow. It's been two years, nothing. But, pals, maybe there's a real media strategy. You change the law on HRT, you put your director, he changes 40 editors, disband 11 correspondents, that's the one that's not close to my house, so get it done, call a quasi-new contest where he'll name whoever he wants. Change the HINA Act, cancel their budget item, and you've solved HINA as well. At the same time make appointments at the Council for Electronic Media that you have made, you have under control a network of local radio and TV stations and put in the budget of HINA and the needs of its financial development but put something called non-profit media which you then finance directly with your decision. Fantastic! Awesome media strategy! I can't believe how simple, but effective. And what you need to further explain to your esteemed colleagues. What doesn't make that strategy clear to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70391	And the last one for discussion came from the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70392	Thank you very much. I don't find it particularly controversial that at this time we are even discussing 15 of such an important report. Because sometimes there's not much more of us in the morning. There's 16 of us. But a few things are worth pointing out. HINA is one of the most important state institutions. I've heard a lot of remarks here, I agree with everyone, but I would dare say that a state that doesn't have a National News Agency is not a state, and the report is not a report unless it contains basic professional standards and the most necessary professionality of compiling reports. Some of these things are missing. But even I'd get over it, but there are some things that just can't get over it. No President of the Governing Council. The report of the Governing Council shall be discussed, most importantly, one of the most important state institutions. There is no argument from the Governing Council on the lack of a justification of the Governing Council on the work of its report. I'm sorry, sir. You shouldn't have come to the Assembly. If there's no need to explain the report, such an important report. Why isn't there a principal? The principal's missing, and she shouldn't have been the principal. Why wasn't it supposed to be? Because there is a conflict of interest and there is a solution to the commission that it is in conflict of interest because it cannot be a director at the same time and a professional member of the Council for Electronic Media, and it should not be a member of the Council of Electronic Media, because the taxpayer of the Republic of Croatia and the published taxpayer with 450 thousand kuna. Em is a taxpayer but is also in conflict of interest and we do not say that we are told by the Committee on Conflict of Interest. Months passed the commission gave its opinion but the principal does not give up, he will not resign. How long are we gonna be like that? It is likely that HINA will be extinguished before the mandate expires, all points to that. 5 million kunas of reduced budgets for HINA, and in the 2015 and 2016 projection there are no items for HINA in the 2015 budget projection for 2016 there are no items for HINA. Why? Because it doesn't count on the National News Agency anymore. The private press has VAT 5%, the National News Agency 25% of VAT. It has to have a VAT rate, but it doesn't have to have 25%. It is said to be financed from other revenues, to be financed from not only the mentioned TV subscriptions but even from EU funds. So they do not know the laws that regulate how and from which HINA can be financed and how EU funds can be used. To solve Vesnik's files, and I will stress because it is important, it is not about the documents of the Vesnik list, it is about the documentation of the once NISPRO Vesnik edition. This documentation is a wealth of mine and so easy to get rid of ore wealth is not surprising. If we recall how a similar attack on the Vesnik's documentation had already been carried out, once upon a time in communism when Borovo started a shoe factory and the director came to the meeting of NišPRO Vesnik and complained that there was nothing on the shoelaces of that plastic on top that there was no repromation for it, then one communist official from Vjesnik quickly offered and solved the problem in a way that all the movies of Vjesnik's documents had been translated into plastics for ties. This was the way we used to treat Vesnik's documentation today. So it turns out that everything that's national needs to be shut down. Shut down such an important strategically important institution and send a number of professionals and top journalists to the Employment Service. With all these thoughtful remarks, they can only call it a political crime, so they treat the National News Agency. The crime is directed against strategic national interests, which is directed against strategic national interests then turns out that we cannot have national interests. The budget cuts, the shutting down of Vjesnik's documentation, such a high VAT rate, the lack of funds in projections for 2015 and 2016 is nothing more than an indication of the conclusion of HINA for lipsticks prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70393	We have a signed replica of the respected Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70394	Dear colleague, you spoke well of what was a lapus that we corrected, but my colleague and I lost your throat in this assembly talking about the state of the media and the voice. I only remember when the Vesnik was shut down, among other things, now that this is happening with HINA and those colleagues and colleagues who assured us that everything would be great how it would be when we changed the HINA Act and convinced that it was all going better that things would be much better now, we couldn't hear on this subject that nobody from the SDP club or the HNS club said. We here from the opposition ranks have all said more or less from our angle colleagues Glavak as former journalist and media workers, me from the aspect of culture, you as an economist etc. But here's what we don't know is what the party's position is in the ruling Kukuriku coalition which in some way led to both this budget and these things you said, moving the Vesnik file that I agree is a resource couple of excellence. I agree that the resource is a couple of excellents. To see how archives do it, say in France, how they have specialized websites and buildings... and such a newspaper, you are not at all searching for more by listing, but by clicking on the mouse, each click is particularly charged, but of course their newspaper articles look different than they do in our daily presses because there are certain references that are the bases of each superfluous text. Here, we don't know what they're going to do about HINA's report and how they're going to vote by colleagues from SDP and HNS, maybe they haven't gotten the conditions to vote yet, or maybe it's not all...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70395	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70396	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, no wonder for the lapus at 9:30, after so much discussion and reporting, but you said there was no other voice on this report. So who wouldn't be embarrassed to talk about the principal who's a taxpayer of 450 thousand kuna? Posted, click on the Internet, you'll see. Yes, a member of the council. Well, you see the taxpayer and the conflict of interest. So how can you not keep your mouth shut, so who should not be silent? If she was my sister, I'd keep my mouth shut, I'd get out of the assembly, ask her to change. But you said I speak here as an economist, not just as an economist. I spent 10 years as a director at the Vjesnik skyscraper, from 90 to 2000, and in 2000, I had to get out of there practically. But otherwise I have to admit, I'm not in the mood for rudeness, so I'm gonna interrupt the answer. [[Please, come on, don't throw it away, come on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70397	Final minutes belong to the President of the Governing Council of HINA, Mr. Joseph Webber, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70398	Honorable MPs and MPs. So, as shown at the beginning of this report, the report is for a period when it was previously, as Mr Mesic noted, the previous meeting of the Governing Council and was presented as such. Therefore, for a certain period from 2011 to December 2012, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this This Administrative Council in the 5th meeting was established only in early November and all the efforts and work of the Governing Council, because this is a report in the work of the Governing Council, not about the Director or someone else is for the previous, and for our meeting, for the 5th Assembly of the Governing Council, I hope that all representatives will be and I will be very happy to present if I am still President of the Governing Council, next year, so in the 2013 report. HINA is, why joyfully? Because HINA is in the restructuring process and the reports I received are very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-12-0.u70399	Thank you. That concludes this item of the agenda and interrupts the session. We will continue tomorrow on 16th, this is the report on the use of EU pre-accession programmes for the period from 01 January to 30 June 2013. Thank you all and good night. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2012. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA for 2012 is hereby adopted". Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by 106 votes for and 2 abstentions.
