ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78932	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just going to briefly make this final proposal, and then I'm just going to go through the differences that are relative to the original text. So the fundamental goal we want to achieve by this law is, on the one hand, the optimal satisfaction of the public but also the private interest of investors, on the one hand, on the other hand, of citizens who own real estate. Unfortunately, the situation now is that they are dissatisfied with each other. If you are talking to any investor, you will hear how long the procedure has been going on and how long there is actually an obstacle to it, but at the same time, citizens whose real estate is being managed unfortunately have examples that 10 or more years of people can't get paid for their real estate and it's already in another function. So the current system is not satisfactory. So there are several groups of measures that, I will now pass quickly through them. So on the one hand, in order to protect the interests of the owner of the property and to achieve a more efficient process, we are installing a whole series of elements that are aimed at encouraging an agreed solution. It's first and foremost. Exclusion is too often seen as something that is understood. It must be an exceptional measure if we want to and constitutionally categorize it. So in some ideal amount, the ratio we have to go towards solving 95% or more of the cases in agreement, so that people agree that the owner of the property should receive adequate compensation. And only where there is no agreement then can we talk about State intervention or expropriation. It happens too often, and it's a criticism, and at the expense of investors to say we're going to rule everything out. That makes this law different. So, first of all, a mutually agreed solution. If he's not here, then we're giving out all the exorcism mechanisms. Mandatory eyewitness. There's been an absurd thing happening to us so far that they've taken possession of properties that no one's ever seen. Unfortunately, it happened. The agreed selection of witches, the general methodology of the selection of witches, will later be an appraiser, I'll say something about it. The precision of actions and content, it is important that all parties know what and when and how to do it, especially the person who is entitled to the property simply because that is what their rights are safeguarded. Transparency. This is the first time we've ever introduced a register of expropriated properties. Unfortunately, we don't have it yet, we're introducing it, we're going to be led to the Ministry of Justice, we think it's very important because this country intervenes in relation to private interests, and we need to know who, what, how and why. So we're introducing a register. The next and this will be, for the first time, envision a unique methodology for establishing the market value of real estate, it will be, it will be arranged by colleagues from the Ministry of Construction. So again, the situation that we're all aware of is one real estate next to another, one is estimated at 100, the other is at 1000. Even sometimes the difference can be bigger. It's just not fair, it's not fair to the owner and it's not fair if you want to talk to the investor sometime. So, uniquely, we finally have to function as a state where we know what and how it is estimated and where that assessment is in some kind of gauge acceptable. So she may sometimes be able to step down a little bit but she can't give up 10% or 20%. Next, so it'll be arranged by a special regulation, but we're introducing it here as a way of determining values, I say for the first time. Also one thing that happens to us, speculation. Speculations always exist and they are something that happens on the market. But speculations when they're based on someone having privileged information, and then they know where something's going to be built, and then they buy it to sell it a few times or a dozen times more is what can't happen. Again, it's not fair, it's not fair to that real estate owner who sold something for nothing, and the one who bought it knows it's worth a few dozen times more, not even to the investor. Therefore, this assessment will take into account the useful property property that it had before the change of purpose. What does that mean? If anything was agricultural, it becomes only construction because the road goes there. Then we'll consider her property before she changes her purpose to something else. The next thing, we predict that each party bears the costs of the procedure, its costs of the procedure, other than the art and assessment which are the largest and other costs which are unreasonable, means that they are caused either by guilt or by reason of the property. And there was also one cost industry where actually too often it goes into action just because of the cost. The outcome is, you know what he's like. But there are costs, and there's also something that we don't think is right. In addition, it is a solution that is in the Law on Administrative Procedure and is as it is and applies. As far as strategic projects are concerned, we are determining one-stage action in the administrative process. So that's where the Justice Department will be conducting a direct procedure in one degree. The interests of the party are protected. We have a lawsuit, so we have a administrative dispute, and there's legal protection for absolutely days. Such projects do not have much, but we need to ensure acceleration wherever possible. For the first time, we are setting up a fee for properties that are according to special regulations, which are considered to be subject to special regulations. For example, the expansion of maritime goods. You are the owner of the property to which the maritime goods border has spread at this time in Croatia cannot receive compensation. It's just not settled, and you really can't use that property. A whole series of other cases where it's ruled out by special regulations are often damaged by people who are the most vulnerable, so to those who are touched by their real estate. The amount of assigned property shall be calculated on the basis of the information provided for in point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article. Later, the procedure can be conducted around the amount of compensation, but it does not stop from one side or the owner that he has received, meaning what he is designated, or stop the investor from further implementation. Also one problem in the practice that has been observed is dealing with illegally built real estate. In fact, the current situation is that you have to either legalize or remove such a property, so according to the regulations. It's taking too long, it's not good for the owner or the investor. We are now predicting the possibility that such properties, too, mean buyouts, outlaws, removals, much simpler than they are now. We're extending deadlines to start construction from two to five years old. Simple and EU projects and all project building too often in practice, so what I'm saying is these interventions we get from the field are happening to us that we can't start realisation within those two years. We allow the opening of the compensation procedure which means, which is deposited, or exposed in accordance with previous regulations, with previous regulations because it is now once again a grey unsettled zone. So in short, with this we think that to the greatest extent possible, we have achieved a balance, a balance between the interest of the beneficiaries of the power and the person who is being empowered. The proceedings will be faster, but the actions of the swift are also an advantage to the one who has authority because there will be no more cases after twenty years that people do not receive compensation. But also to the investor that he can start the project early. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78933	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a few replicas. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78934	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, you say that a number of exorcism users complain that according to the existing law, the difficult process of extradition is slow. I argue that this law will not speed up the process, and that the Government indeed had the will to simplify the procedure and, above all, to speed it up where and where a better solution is being made that in this law, all the objects prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of interest to the Republic of Croatia and which will be objects, would be an integral part of the state spatial plan, a development plan which will be adopted by this House on a proposal and in which we will manifest ourselves in a spatial plan on any such facility, then there is no need for either government or two committees of this Assembly to discuss whether this facility is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. In this way you would deny a very long and complex procedure and shorten the process by one year to two days. So, if you wanted and used the legislation adopted by this House last year, you could have reduced one significant step in this process, because what should be said by the Government is whether any project of national importance, some building of national importance when this House will discuss and bring and prescribe all the facilities in Croatia that are of national importance. And your government has already adopted a regulation in March that regulates what facilities in the Republic of Croatia are of national importance. Therefore, this repetition of the procedure is without reason complex and there is no need for these projects and buildings, which are truly of national importance once again, to show that they are indeed of national importance. If that was done then the user of the expropriation could say that we really shortened his procedure. This is how it keeps getting complicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78935	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78936	Of course, you can always look at it in different ways. So we already have a whole series of categories under special laws where there is thought to be an interest. On the other hand, it is impossible to prescribe all the facilities at this level, because you know that they also refer to some specific ones in the local community, so that it can be a kindergarten or something the Assembly won't about. So if they didn't have such a way then they couldn't even consider it. So I say that is, we think this is the best way to bring it together. So there are objects that are marked as such by special regulations, and there is no particular public interest in them, there are at a lower level of which Parliament will not actually decide for kindergarten where we need to open up the possibility of doing so. If it were like you say, there would be no possibility, and then that's where it would be. So I'm saying we think we've made a proper balance with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78937	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78938	Thank you very much. ... This bill really brings some better solutions, however, as you have said, investors and real estate owners are also dissatisfied. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[Intruding Leko: Join respected MPs.]] I would agree with that because this bill will definitely make investors still likely to remain unsatisfactory no matter what the procedure is simplified. You have, for example, a situation to be ruled out... Property, and under this procedure, the investor will receive a powerful decision on the expropriation but will still not be able to enter the real estate, i.e. it cannot be entered into the real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because he's stuck in a different area, and that's a garter. No matter what you changed last year, the Law on Land Books remains a chaotic situation. Therefore, the investor will tell you again what you've been doing and what you've changed again is Croatia's embezzlement for investment. You did go absolutely by the investor's hand in relation to the owner, so even this bill could be said by the investor's rights in the extradition process, not by the law of expropriation. But definitely, instead of amending the law, I think that exorcism bill was pretty good, too. Perhaps it was necessary to make changes in the sense that the investor was immediately introduced into possession. It was necessary, and it should be absolutely, and that is the problem of this country, to speed up the work of all who work at someone's request. Whether or not at the request of an investor or a natural person. That's the problem, not the constant changes and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78939	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78940	Thank you very much. So that's where we open up a few questions. As far as the garter is concerned, of course it needs to be solved and we're working on it and the situation is better than it was. Is it satisfactory? It's not. I admit it and that's the way it is. However, I can also say that today is better than yesterday and tomorrow will be even better. But it takes some time, it's now a very special question that we can talk about, i.e. garter and catastra, etc., it's a special question. This law, we've worked on it for a long time. We've talked to a whole series of big investors and smaller ones. We have also talked to representatives of NGOs who in some ways represent users, or persons who exercise authority. We tried to reconcile each other's interests but at the same time with the task of getting an acceleration. Here's how you look when the procedure is prescribed, then you and the clerk can make it work faster because he knows what to do. So that's what we're gonna do, and I'm gonna agree, I often miss it, but that's why we're doing it here. So, the clear procedure keeps parties in the process and actually drives one who conducts the procedure so that he can act more quickly and easily. So I repeat, this is about specific exorcism, address certain things that have not been touched at all. If we say that the old law was good, so how have we dealt with, say, the expansion of maritime good borders? No, it wasn't. People were left without it and they weren't getting anything. Under the old ministry law, you still have procedures after 20 years, they've been before. It's also under the old law. Entering the property before, pending. So, the whole series of things is unsettled by the old law. Are we going to talk about an assessment that, by the current law, you say shouldn't have changed? Since it didn't have to be changed if the same real estate is next to each other, one costs 100 other costs 1000. Well, I think that should have changed. So I cannot agree that the existing solutions were correct and correct. And that's why we're going to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78941	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP advocates' club and the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78942	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP club supports the adoption of the Exclusion Act. First of all, not only what the minister said that this bill of law that has been preparing for a long time, which is a very sensitive nature, which seems to reconcile around two opposing opinions, i.e. the interest of the owner and the public interest, but also the interest of the potential investor. Apparently, it seems impossible to reconcile those two or even three interests. What happened to us was based on existing laws or laws that were in force, which I deeply believe we would adopt this bill to remove all those shortcomings, all those possibilities of abuses that were too many, which were too many. They were not often, most often they were not satisfied with the owners but sometimes there were reverse situations that were not satisfied with the one who owned the property i.e. the state of interest, the public interest should be protected. In short, if such abuses are possible, no matter what rule, it is not good and should be changed, so it was bad. But what I would like to point out on behalf of the club practices under such laws, that law of the existing law was even worse. Some properties that were not worth much have been bought in gold, while on the other hand almost the properties that were very valuable people have received almost negligible, completely negligible amount or worse, and such cases have not yet been paid at all. Only if you open the portals will you see, to remember in 2010, the citizens speak, write and the media about it, the titles are the formula to take away the plot to the owners, empowerment, the state can rule out everything, determine the price and not pay. It's a shame the state was building large infrastructure projects at that time a few years ago, I'm not going to say at what price, three times as expensive as we as a coalition government built highways by 2000 to 2003 and the owners to this day were not even paid kuna. When the highway was built in 2003 from Zagreb to Split, the shovel did not enter without the owner being paid in advance. Here's what one owner says, he says, "I've been told, I've spoken to Croatian highways, he writes in 2009, I wasn't satisfied with the price, but nobody asked me anything, I had to agree to it, I was said to be paid within 30 days. When the deadline and the deadline went by, I asked for my fee, and they told me you know what the situation is we're just paying for last year, so when it's your turn." Now, how can citizens then trust the state and the institutions in any aspect and any sector? If it was possible to rule out and not pay. So what's most important is not only the transparency of the process but what's already set to pay in time. It's a minimum of not only good behavior of a state that wants to discipline others, but to discipline itself. Unfortunately, we haven't had that before. Therefore, above all, it is to prevent speculation, not to redeem what will not be brought to the senses at all. We also had where the land was bought at high prices and it stands in the schizo, because here are some ideas, there's going to be something. And it was done and it wasn't and it's not rare cases. So what has already been mentioned here, which are fundamental values for the law to be fair, that a citizen who has not even brought in some real estate will be satisfied precisely that in such a way will come to some means and in such an indirect way put his real estate, which will no longer be his, into office. To keep the real estate operational. Of course, there is a need to talk about these potential investors as well. All that is transparent, which is evident, removes any doubt, because doubt will always be, but if you do everything openly, if it is possible to check all of this in the existing phases, then people and those participants and the public who sees it are satisfied. There was this particular investor case, of course, it was a shopping mall, in 2009, where the man was left without access. It was a county road intended for the county road, during the night it became a state road, and the man had not yet received compensation. Therefore, to be taken into account precisely in this total expropriation if a person is, in view of, a citizen, the owner of whom the property is authorised, therefore, to take due account of the remaining part. What makes the procedure transparent is certainly an eyewitness, but not only an eyewitness but what happens on the eyewitness. In order for experts who are skilled in real estate to do so by precise criteria, that what the minister said, one real estate or neighbouring real estate is not valid, so where this ratio is enormous, it must have the same value regardless of who the owner was. However, often abuses were such that the fee was paid by the name and last name of the owner and not by the very value of the property. What is also, what contributes to the transparency of conduct is that register. But what seems to me to be the most valuable and especially potent, and I want to, here's what I'm going to say on behalf of the SDP club, that's the provision of Article 46, because if it's an executive agricultural land that we all know is far less valuable than building land to say, so wait for me to rule, you're paying me by agricultural rate, and I know why you're ruling to build some infrastructure facilities, but in any case, it's going to become construction, so it's going to be out of control. Unfortunately, no one is ruling to plant corn or any other agricultural culture. In particular, it is worth the provision of Article 46(3) where it is said that when determining the fee, it will take care of the useful properties of the property. So not only about what this property is now doing in nature but about what this property can be tomorrow. And that, therefore, creates one, it is the important task of all of us here to make our laws as righteous as possible. So, here, by supporting this bill, we in the SDP club deeply believe that he is just, that he is transparent, that he will allow on the one hand to speed up some investment processes that are in our best interests, as well as that the former owners will receive compensation in the right amount, in the right value and within a certain period, and of course he is then fully satisfied with the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78943	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78944	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, you have cited several examples of exorcisms in various parts, and here is a letter from one of those who are authorized, so from private property. In fact, with us, I have to say an example, it has offered me a line, in Slavonia people were very dissatisfied. Namely, in the case of the export of agricultural parcels or even parcels which were prices relative to other parts and other highways that were made, so there are..., there are other A1 roads, prices, therefore such agricultural land in various parts of Croatia were enormously different. So, the fertile fields are paid at a price of 10 kuna, and some kind of, say a stoner that's far from the sea, so it's not worth that even snakes can't survive there, they're paid at 50 kn per square metre. So, either 80kn shows Šima Djurdjevic, here's a hand here. So 10 times the price. So there were, let me say, the agreed economies between the performers and investors and those who sold the country, and here, this poor Slavonia that died in these floods, people had to sell the country at a truly 8 times less price than in some other parts of Croatia. So, that was volunteering, there was a deal, there was land purchase, and then it was selling to that investor, the intentional land purchase, it was all really, and it was good that you stepped up like this, and the minister, to finally fix this matter right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78945	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78946	My colleague, what you've presented, I think that each of us can set such an example. But the state must not be an accomplice to such a matter and if it were not an accomplice, it would not have happened because the empowerment is carried out by the State through its bodies. Here's an example for you also in this northern part of our Croatia, the manager entered my field, guarded by the police and headed for an expansion of the road towards a large shopping centre. It used to be 700 kuna per square metre, and now it's found a formula for only 25 kuna. I haven't got that yet either. Or the bags that go, what the minister said, that have information. Swindlers selling land tricked Virans for 21 million kuna. People think it's unforgiving land, I'm happy to get rid of it, get anything. And tomorrow they, they sell you the same for who knows how many times the price. Unfortunately, this is what I want, while the minister is here to say, there are now those who can't do this with the state right now, but they're entering the land books, because they're public and they see that a man has been formally registered for some part of it. Convince the owner that something can be done, we now have in Dalmatia a flood of such people, God's eye everything is clean, but it's not because they cheat on people and I beg you to draw attention to such work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78947	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78948	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, it is certainly necessary to support certain provisions of this law in favour of the transparency of the procedure, it is not disputed. However, your exposure was partly contrary to the procedures and laws that this government is making. You have rightly criticised certain procedures that took place before so... when the investor was a public enterprise, for example Croatian highways, Croatian roads or some other state-owned company that has often worked on... owners of these properties because of the urgency of the procedure. But you forget that this government and this Parliament, that we have passed the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, where we have pretty much abolished the rights of landowners and parcels that have been established in previous laws. For example, the Strategic Investment Projects Act foresees that a strategic investor should not be engaged in public competitions for its needs, that not even so far the Execution Act is not used but is going directly to resolve these properties and take away and take away from the owner based on the assessment of the court expert. That such projects should also not make urban planning arrangements, but go directly to... permits. Therefore, if we talk about it on the one hand that it was not good or that it went into favors by investors, then it is significantly less than what the Strategic Investment Projects Act has now prescribed, and part of which... and this law. So remember the forest law where we said that for the purposes of golfers in the Republic of Croatia it is not necessary to implement, to establish over forests owned by state property, not to establish the interests of the Republic of Croatia but directly from a spatial plan with the agreement of the Minister of Agriculture can be called forests and forest land. So when you talk about something that happened, you have to remember that your government right now in order to please investors in the Republic of Croatia is cutting down on... private owners solving their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78949	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78950	You guys are turning the saw upside down. These laws and which you mentioned, they are very transparent and talk about speeding up procedures, but what my intensity was, which were abuses, you've now taken a little look back at what was before and because of speed. The speed of action cannot be an excuse for a citizen not being paid. What are you talking about? So do you know that... the road that Zadar 2 is still today, the day isn't paid off by the owners? It is said that the state cannot enter from its own and enter the property unless it has paid off the former owner, that is what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78951	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. The Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dragutin Lesar are next.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78952	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. This is indeed an important law, and as hard as we all try in the best interest of this I have no doubt it is really difficult to reconcile the principles of non-violence of private ownership and of state strategic or social interest. As the state develops, the society must build both schools and hospitals, railways, roads, power plants, factories, and carry this accelerated social development with it. And it's no problem when a local or central state owns real estate, land on which to build or implement these strategic projects. The problem begins at a time when, in order to achieve this strategic interest, private property needs to be infiltrated. So far we have all kinds of experience, any and all corruption and abuse of functions and selling or trading privileged information. The bags that were being enriched were not bags from the road and the criminal mile, but most often those who unfortunately had both the possibility and the decision-making and the first and only knew the fate of certain huge plots of land. And in many cases, they became rich, and their jobs were in municipal, city, county services, or in state services. There was also the property of owners who for certain reasons and spite simply made it impossible for years to realise strategic projects. But there's also an unfortunate man whose first condition was to build a highway, he got another one, and after a few years he was taken out of another house because of the construction of the pipeline. It's human fate, I understand them when they yell and they're dissatisfied and they warn that by making sense that they're the only two states that rule and constantly drive them to change places of life. These are human family fates. But we had cases, although the mayor later ended up in prison, when they applied the principle of agreement so they bought land with the city's money, then the marks were, 40 marks per space unit, but they ran into three owners whose agriculture was the only occupation and who didn't want to sell, they weren't priced in price, but the fact that they were being taken away by means of labor, and so they didn't want to sell and be careful they were authorized by two marks, that was an official assessment. And no one has ever initiated a procedure as the settlement was previously paid to the third public money of 40 marks per space unit and has never launched an investigation. They're experiences. Now, as far as the law is concerned. the authorities for the implementation of the extradition procedure shall be the offices of the State administration and the Ministry. The law provides that part of the costs of the procedure of those authorities are to be borne on the burden of the beneficiary of the exemption under a special agreement. Will the body paid by the beneficiary of the exemption be equally fair and correct to those who seek the authority and the owner of the property, if he pays it under the agreement? I read the provision as it was written, I may have misunderstood it, but it reminds me of the fact that even the costs of the court proceedings under a special agreement are paid by the prosecutor and of course it is possible to expect the potential danger of subjectivity, not to say corruption. So it's one of the solutions in the law that I think or that it's not well explained, written or possibly leads to a new corruption point and a corruption risk. Secondly, the value of the property is expressed in money by the opinion of an authorised expert or appraiser. And that's where we see the problem. I remind you of two fresh examples when these same authorised experts and evaluators gave tremendously large amounts in their labs and documents from Planinska to Spačva and I ask whether there is this risk that authorised evaluators or witches will have such criteria that the breakdown of values will be determined between 1 and 10. I'm expressing this fear not imaginaryly but by the fact that we've been witnessing such examples these months and the state has serious problems with it. And continues the regulation and methodology that will actually be passed. So at the moment of adoption of this law, we did not know what kind of methodology and assessment would be brought into the resolution ministry so that they could be sure that the maneuvering space of witches and assessors is narrowed down to abuse and the possibility of corruption. So we must vote in favour of this law in advance, believing that the competent ministry will make order by its act. It wouldn't be good for the Minister if it were an integral part of the law or at least a framework of methodology. But you're asking us to trust you. You're looking for a vote for the law, and we need to believe that the Resort Ministry will pass a good implementing regulation. That's the problem. Strategic interest, the strategic interest project was most often in Croatia when it was an investor of the state or of its public enterprises or local companies. Since last year, however, we also have the law that private investments can also be declared strategic projects and thus, and for the realization of these private investments, this extradition procedure applies. And I fully understand people who despise it, fear the possibility that these private interests are not due to the very realisation and its strategic values but are being determined in writing with those who decide on spatial plans on a particular part of the territory for realisation. We have too much bad experience in this very spatial planning, and I hope the ministers know that from a colleague whose portfolio it is, which is all the swindling and subsequent changes, but we even read the falsifications of spatial plans when they were made. We also need to understand citizens and we need to understand their fear when the realisation of this law comes and the private sector. And that's why extra fuses are necessary. The costs of representing the owner in the process shall be borne on his burden, i.e. everyone shall bear his own costs. In Croatia, Mr. Minister, there are plenty of legally ignorant citizens, old people living alone, who are not in the woods of regulations, procedures and activities. Who will help them in legal protection? If the cost is borne by each side of it. I'm not talking about costs that aren't justified, which are caused by the owner's behavior or the hanging, I'm not talking about it. It is also difficult to accept the fact that these poor old, ignorant people can deal with law enforcement teams that will be represented by exorcism users. And I can't tell you, you can't let the ministers go to them. That part of the cost at the request of the owner or to deploy to the state or user of the expropriation as in the rest from 1947 to today is entered in the law. Since '47. Even today, there is a provision that this goes on the burden of the user's execution, not the owner's. The fee shall be paid, determined, paid in cash and the basic criterion shall be the useful property properties it had before the change of purpose. So, if something is going to be built now and that was agricultural land, the value of agricultural land is estimated. It's about the owner who deals with agriculture as a single profession and who lives off the land. And we rule his land and pay off the value of agricultural land in some part of Croatia and you heard that the differences in these estimates are enormous. Did we only take a man’s land or the possibility of continuing to deal with agriculture? It's like taking away a businessman's shop or factory, truck or bus, and we say now it's going to continue to deal with transportation but we're taking out a truck or a bus. The solution when the owners of agricultural land are persons, people who are exclusively and only interested in farming is to pay agricultural land only as agricultural land because we have taken away some of their income and opportunity for years. And don't think that, we've had cases like this, and it will be about parcels and positions where no replacement land can be given on the same territory, especially the same quality. Because agricultural land can be first class, it can be sixth class. We're taking someone first class, offering in exchange for the sixth class. In this law, the insurance of solutions for citizens dealing exclusively with agriculture, the same damage occurs when a large parcel is split into two, three parts. We take his middle, leave two... left and right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is no longer the same as the conditions for farming from the possibility of irrigation, machine treatment, we're creating additional costs for it. I found no solution to this problem in this law, if there is a kind ask the minister to publicly explain it. And finally. Illegal buildings located in the area of exorcism. First, it says it doesn't have to damage it, but then in the last paragraph of Article 48, but it can be agreed that even a building, without a building permit, is depreciated. When the state is an investor, and by state I mean from municipality to central state and public enterprises... Again, the point of the corruption crisis... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One illegal building will be awarded without compensation and with the other we will reach an agreement and we will give him compensation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both the type and character of that building, whether it's a house for housing, a cottage or a farm by purpose and kind of the same approach simply can't go. Because if someone had an agricultural facility that served him in order to achieve its existence by dealing with agriculture and had not been able to legalise, or the request was submitted, and had not been resolved or had no money, it would obviously not be paid for, and some who would be in the decision-making process or close to it and would participate in the conclusion of that Agreement on the financing of part of the costs of the body that carried out the procedure might be. I am giving these serious remarks to ministers because we did not really find the answers by supporting the essence of the proposal, speeding up the deadlines, avoiding an informed trial and preventing the implementation of the project. That part we understand, we know it must be brought and supported. But these dilemmas I gave you between the first and second readings weren't resolved until the end. If I'm wrong, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78953	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78954	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you that, in parallel with this law in Parliament, a debate on the Real Estate Assessment Act should have been discussed. As far as I know, the Government has, in a debate with the interested public, referred to the Real Estate Assessment Regulation and the basis of the Spatial Planning Act. I believe that this document on the assessment of the value of the property should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament, that is the first thing and that it should be discussed in accordance with, or parallel to, this law, because it is related to one another. On the other hand, I believe that the government is in conflict of interest when it adopts a regulation on the assessment of the value of real estate. Why? Because the government is the largest beneficiary of Croatian extradition on the one hand, and on the other hand the owner who is most often in the process of representing the property of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Republic of Croatia as the owner of the procedure when the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia are authorised for the purposes of certain projects. Therefore, neither the Real Estate Assessment Regulation nor the methodology to carry out the procedure in my opinion is a document to be adopted by the Government, but it should have been an integral part of the Real Estate Assessment Act, which would have been prescribed by law and not only the assessment procedure, but also of the methodology in which only the exemption is carried out through this particular law that was to be here. This is how we discuss the Law on Exclusion and I don't know why, and I don't know why, and I don't know why, and I don't understand it, but I don't know the Law on Execution, and we're not familiar with the methodology, or the assessment and procedure that's going to be worth the real estate, which is the basis of that execution at all. Therefore, this law would be where and where better to be if the Assembly had also discussed the Real Estate Assessment Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78955	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78956	I agree with you, and I said that it is really hard to give Bianca confidence that the implementing rules are so correct, fair and fair that we can vote with a calm conscience for this law. I thought the real estate assessment question could be part of this law. You obviously mean special law. Apparently, the government will feel the same way. But I always, they plan the regulation. Okay, but I'm always surprised why we keep making some special laws if it's an assessment of the benefits and the authority, then it could be part of this law. But the government has a problem with a possible conflict of interest for another reason. According to the law, the government has the parliament's approval to declare private projects strategic. So, the government also adopts a regulation on how to assess values or the resolution ministry, it doesn't matter to me. Private projects are declared strategic, under way of expropriation. We have to believe a lot in advance that everything will be fine, and the experience of applying the existing law, and from the very opening explanation of the minister, it is visible how much money there was in the blurry, how many bad legislative solutions there were, but also violations of existing laws. And that is why I always insist that when you ask us for support in such laws, and this law is worthy of support because of the acceleration of deadlines and the clean procedure. But there's this problem that I'm saying is that we're being asked to trust in advance and we don't know these other options, and don't be angry whenever the government has such great powers, I'm reserved, with the right to do so often.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78957	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78958	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lesar, you have, in my opinion, rightly problemed two things, which is to co-finance the work of the authorities responsible for carrying out the extradition procedure by which the investor practically co-finances the work of the authorities carrying out the empowerment, and on the other hand, you have been well and troublesome to share the costs of conducting the extradition procedure on the investor and the owner of the land. And now that you bring these two things together, it is almost difficult to explain that the legislator proposes that the user pay and finance the work of the administrative body without predicting paying the costs of legal representation of owners who are practically affected and seized by ownership. So the owner didn't sell the real estate, but it was taken away from him and still has to pay the costs. Therefore, I will try to preserve some difficult words, but under whose influence the legislator fell when he wrote such a thing, the investor. Proposer. And we should adopt that now. Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78959	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78960	Yes, colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt can't really believe that this law goes in the direction that property owners whose property is subject to the force of the law themselves should finance the costs of their own interest. Especially, and I repeat, people who are ignorant, who have no information that they can't handle, and on the other hand they have extremely experienced teams. If we have so far had the provision that these costs of protecting the owner's interest went to the burden of the user's expropriation and apparently under their pressure it goes out of the law then if it isn't so then it must be at the expense of the state. Because the state has declared its private investment a strategic interest, the state has passed the law by which the state is being forced to take private property because no settlement has occurred. When a deal comes to an agreement, no one's deal. If only 10 people are damaged because of the change in this provision in Croatia, only 10, we did not do a good thing. We are not all equally informed, able to deal with these problems, and not all are equally resourceful. And our job in the Parliament is to protect the weakest, the weakest and the least known. And that's why I keep warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78961	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78962	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Lesar, in fact, I'm just going to continue what you just said and allow you to actually comment on it a little bit more. In fact, you asked the question, who's going to help the unsuspecting? So far, it has been known to happen that it was these people who were legally ignorant, older, perhaps even more powerless to actually be exposed to the offer of help so often in the extradition procedures that they found themselves on the other side of those older and powerless legally ignorant people on their side were lawyers who were well aware of where they were going, who looked at all the people who were in that authority corridor or on these parcels and where they had come to offer their help. I am convinced that they will again find ways to do so further and that even so, I will continue to say under quotes "helping" the legal ignorant and, in the end, in one good part and slowing down the procedures of expropriation, regardless of what the law clearly wants to improve and increase, speed up this execution process. Although the people I've talked to who are working and conducting this procedure and don't exactly share that opinion that it's going to be that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78963	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78964	Comrade Hrg, you have often used today teams that have been bagging, bagging. However, they also bagged for someone else. I know a town where a big new residential settlement was built, it was a backdrop, today it's part of a big one city, and the owners of 90% of the plots when the process started, and when the urban plan came up they were employees of the city's administration. They didn't bag lawyers, they bagged city administration employees. Directly or indirectly, whatever. And, of course, the whole neighborhood is built up as building land. It was bought as agricultural land. That's what I warned you about, and that's what I'm talking about. Now, is this clause that the assessment will be done on the purpose that was the character of the land before or not to prevent those bags maybe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78965	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78966	Thank you, Mr. President. So in your discussion, you mentioned quite a few interesting examples that would require special attention and special approach. You mentioned some of the colleagues I wouldn't come back to but I noticed where you were talking about the carriers. And it's certainly important in that part to say, and it's not just that the carrier's problem. Here I had a chance to attend a meeting a short time ago where they pointed to all their problems about those risk zones of insurance and almost all of them were simply for those reasons of exhaling. But that area that I am particularly interested in, which is the area of farmers, the area of agricultural land you were talking about where the core activity of these farmers is, and if it is managed, if taken, it is known where it is. And to repeat now what I've been saying here countless times about farmers' difficulties, about the breakdown of the village is very clear. And every middle of us has its own examples, its own difficulties. Here, the end where I come from, and we have the exploitation of hydrocarbons that's known that we're giving almost 60%, 70% of the gas for the market, and in that part it's simply the best quality parcels for our farmers at the price of what it is, it's not there. And these wonders and now those renting fees were cut short by the government's regulation by units of local self-government from that area. They, of course, want to contribute to the quality of life of these citizens and farmers and, on the other hand, they have increased the state budget of income. Most of the county, and these units of local self-government have also been cut off in this way. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78967	Thank you, too. We are continuing the debate, now wants, on behalf of the proposing, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic. Here's to the pay phone, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78968	Thank you very much. I'll address a few of these questions that have been asked. So the co-financing cost was the first. We don't think there's any possibility of any corrupt influence here because this cost can only apply to the material cost. So what it's all about is co-financing out in the field, if necessary, co-financing of rooms, etc. Because under the law of civil servants and tenants, it is impossible and forbidden to co-finance wages. So it's not about co-financed someone's payment, it's just a material cost which we think is also okay if it comes out in some way in favour of the user's authority to participate and participate in it. Because that's what we all pay together as taxpayers. So why don't you take part in financing the material cost. You don't need to limit yourself here because it's clearly regulated by another law, you simply, illegally would be a civil servant or a substitute given a salary, that's impossible. That's why it's specifically stated here. So it's just a material cost. Good examples are, for example, for the renovation of land books where there is also such a provision where some things are co-financed from once from paper to something else that is missing down there, and these procedures are going down. This can also be co-financed from local self-government to individual users. So that's where we limit ourselves, and that's strictly limited to material cost only. I think there's a similar possibility of co-financing in spatial plans. So, neither is unusual ever in practice being abused because it cannot be misused because these rules are clear. You can't pay this to someone, so that's impossible and that's why there's no effect. There's been a lot of talk here about a special regulation, so the way the assessment is going to be arranged, and the question is, why isn't it part of this law, why? Because expropriation is just a small part of the assessment. We want to get it done in the country at last, the assessment to be unique in everything that's been done. From a court case that has nothing to do with this, to a sale of some kind where the state is concerned, so that we know for sure what price to buy until the extradition procedure. That's why he can't be part of this law because he's just a small segment. We here predict that they will go according to this special regulation. A special regulation if not, so until it's passed, goes according to the current arrangement. So it can't get any worse. That's why we are, that's why I can come here in front of you and ask for support, because I can guarantee you that it won't be worse than it is now. And I'm saying that we're determining the method to be much better than it is right now, so there's not this difference 1:10, and the parcels are next to each other, which happens to us, but not just in the case of expropriation, let's do the expropriation is actually one small percentage, these procedures aren't much. Here, you were talking about the examples we read in the media, where the estimates are also different. That's what needs to be taken care of. We must finally have an assessment in the country, so there is a methodology, there will be no price, there will be a methodology. That's what other countries know, too. So simply how are you going to get in the same situation to the same value? And that's what the citizens will protect. But I'm saying, until it's brought in, it's done by the existing, so the construction can't be any worse than it is now. And we couldn't put it here because it's much wider. The question has been raised somewhere and why it's called, it also means about determining the fee, because we have these special procedures that are not an authority. I said, say, extending the maritime goods borders, it's not an authority, and we're calling this just the Authorization Act, we'd have a whole series of citizens who wouldn't have anything to do with it again. You now have such a situation, you expand the border of maritime goods, you can't get compensation in administrative proceedings, you can't go to court, you can't get anything. That's why it's also called about determining compensation, but that's why it's in these special procedures. We've been thinking about it, we could go into narrow terminology and just say expropriation, but then we have these special procedures that can't be carried out anywhere. Or another example, not our citizens, citizens, say countries that cannot acquire ownership in the Republic of Croatia, and now they inherit something, can't acquire property, it's also a kind of execution but it's not an execution. And there has to be a way to determine their compensation for it because it becomes state property. So that's why it has to be called that. We were talking about the cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78969	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78970	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78971	Next time, you'll continue to answer. Now we'll go to the replicas. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78972	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I still disagree that it is a good solution, although it is less important, that the law is called a law on the authorisation and determination of compensation, it is the same as having a law on criminal proceedings and a verdict. The decision-making is an integral part of the Criminal Procedure Act and the determination of the compensation is an integral part of the extradition procedure, as is the establishment of the border of an integral part of the procedure to be conducted under the Law on the Sea Good. So that's what we disagree on. It is not the same, Mr. Minister, when you claim to be involved in the process of rebuilding the land book, making new cadastrian measurements, that the process also includes the owner of the property because he is there, obtained by that renovation of the land book. The quality of his plot is greatly improved, here is the legal interest of someone else, and he is only being replaced for, he is being replaced which I hope will be just. But they are neither the applicant nor even often disagreed with the fact that it has been authorized but because of the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia it becomes, it is ruled by the land or given new real estate or justly, justly compensated. So it's not the same thing. And I agree with you that this law should not discuss the law on the value of real estate, but I do not agree with you that we did not have to discuss it in parallel, that we should have discussed the Law on Real estate value precisely with this law and that this was to be passed by the Parliament, and not as the Law on Spatial Regulation claims by the Government because under the Law on Spatial Regulation, the Government will adopt a regulation. I argue that the Government is not a body that should be adopted by such a regulation and that this should be passed by the Croatian Parliament because the Croatian Parliament is a representative body of citizens, and in often cases the Government is a representative of the Republic of Croatia, as owner on the one hand, and on the other...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78973	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78974	Thank you very much. So there's a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, so it's not all about the CAP and there is, so let's let it go. As for the cost of paying, also here for whom is it in favour? A user of exorcism. That's why it's fair to burden him, not to pay taxpayers for that, too. Why don't you take part in the material cost? He'll get something... No, but you said now about the cost of the procedure, the material cost. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that's what this is about. As far as the cost of this lawyer's proceedings is concerned, that they are, here the arguments are quite identical to the arguments of the bar, yes. And the industry has developed where the property owners are coming right on the routes where they're going to do it, they're offered representation services, often without any need at all, because it's known that in the end a very large cost will be paid by the user of the empowerment, and who will pay for it...? We, like taxpayers. And that's why we went to this solution. And why is that? Because you have first, at the head of the administrative procedure that each party carries its own expense, you have that most expensive part of the art and assessment, always the user of the authority, so not the person who rules. You have the duty of the state office to inform the ignorant party and to be helpful to it, it is also the duty of officials, so to take care of it, you have free real help, also in these cases. So there's a whole series of mechanisms. If we do, we've had one solution so far, but I say what it leads to in practice. You all know that, too. It leads us to go... to conduct a procedure where he's actually often being led just for a fee that's pretty big and that's what we wanted to end up with. Why would there be a cost industry that we all end up paying? So that was why we prescribed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78975	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78976	Ministers, when it comes to the cost of funding of the bodies carrying out the procedure, I read the law carefully, says in accordance with an agreement concluded between the body leaders and the beneficiaries of the empowerment. There's a leader who can make a deal... and I can see that the minister's regulation will determine the criteria. But if that was the case, and you want to avoid the cost-making industry, like you said when it comes to the defence of the owner's interest. I'm just asking one question, putting aside a court-of-law lawsuit. Owners who don't have any money to access any action especially by appeal. What now? The big ones have the right to free legal aid. Look at the reports in the exercise of the right to free legal aid back 3 years. Do these people meet those criteria? I'm afraid in good faith probably, in order to prevent one kind of manipulation, I'd say even criminal behavior, we're opening a problem on the other side when it comes to owners. You're killing the lawyers they've been bagging, aren't you going to put the victims in the hands of the owners as well? You're nodding that. Think again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78977	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78978	So as for the precision of this first means financing the body's work, we can stress that it's a material cost, even if I say it comes from a complete arrangement, but it's no problem for us to be, that's what we're going to put on. As far as this second funding is concerned, we think that the current system, therefore, is being exposed to the conduct of state bodies throughout the whole series of procedures where they don't actually have their own representation. In the administrative procedure, there is an obligation of the state body to take care of the ignorant party, to take care of its interest, here we have put that the art of always paying the user of the expropriation, and the artisaning, by the new methodology, it will be as it is, will be made by methodology, there is not much more talk about it. There is a possibility of contesting the punishment where a citizen may also have the right to compensation. But we're talking about one procedure run by the state administration's office, which by law is required to take care of a citizen. We are talking about the Law on Administrative Procedure which also has this solution where, in a whole series of ways, you and I as a citizen apply the same kind of solution. It's also about some rights, ownership and other. So we're not giving up on that, so I think that's what we're going to do, as I said, and this is what I think the solution it's giving right now is, which is the right thing to do. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78979	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We're continuing the debate. Now it's up to the Honorable Representative Damir Cain, on behalf of the Independent List Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78980	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of eternity. Yes, the integrity of ownership must be and is one of the fundamental values of the Constitution and it is clear that the Constitution says that property can be taken away, in fact limit when it is prescribed by law and with a fair market fee. When we talk about this law for sure there are good solutions, however, only 2.3 sentences of a visa-free opening statement by the minister. I ask myself the same question, for example. which makes the ministry that those who bought state agricultural land for 1 to 2 kuna and then re-scheduled that same once state agricultural land for sale for 60, 80, 100 or more euros. What does the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia do? What particularly offends the fact that individuals have managed to register on such land after the ban on the sale of state agricultural land has entered into force, with the consent and confirmation of the DORH. Now look what's going on. They normally place their same properties in small businesses or draw those stamps for hotels, pool villas, gas stations, tourist checkpoints. I repeat, they bought 1 to 2 kunas. From who? From the state or "of itself" because they were selling it stately. Of course, this isn't about expropriation right now. I'll talk about it later. I'll talk about how individuals got it. We have one of the most attractive examples in Croatia where an individual bought 15 to 20 hectares of such agricultural land in one municipality on the western coast of Istria for 200, 250 maybe 300 thousand kuna but I know that this entire property sells for 11 million euros. And what does the state do, what does it do? Nothing. The one who didn't borrow. We have hundreds of cases like this but 50 drastic ones that weigh millions or two million euros without having anything before. But let me go back to this expropriation law now. By 1994 we used the Expropriation Act, the disputed law, the solutions and this law are about as similar as they are today after '94. Normal nationalization of confiscation is one thing, expropriation is what we call expropriation today. It's a hateful term, certainly expropriation, but in '94 it was replaced by the concept of expropriation. The nationalisation of the 90s confiscation is gone, although I would dare say that through conversion and privatisation it was not nationalised but what Croatia most valuable had was confiscated. I said, down in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, as in the West or the Southwest, a step further went to the northwest where individuals would buy thousands of squares for five pikes of cigarettes or for about 5 thousand to 10 thousand marks then in '99, 2000, buy houses, circle later on with state property or state land, and today they're selling it for a million, a million and a half, two million euros, and they're laughing at us all. It's clear that this nationalization, the confiscation that I once did absolutely reject it, I can't imagine it, but I would also say that this should be considered. I said property integrity is one of the fundamental constitutional values. The constitution says that property can be seized under the law with a clear market fee. So there's a situation where we're forced to exercise authority. I don't know, there's going to be a road building somewhere, there's going to be a waterway building, there's going to be a school tomorrow, there's going to be a dig tomorrow, maybe God give it to the Danube-Sava Channel or there's going to be a low-rise building, there's going to be an airport building or there's going to be a kindergarten building. But be careful with that. It is clear that this law, as the very explanation puts it, is brought first and foremost by the minister to speed up the extradition procedure on the one hand, and on the other hand to launch a new "investment" cycle. I'm saying they're also not incomprehensible. We're aware of the fact that we can't live under a glass bell, but I'm going to say it with caution once more. Anyone reasonable must be as reasonable as possible to remove these administrative barriers. In this context, it is mentioned in Article 3(3) that the exemption can be exercised in favour of the natural or legal person in the follow-up of the user of the authorisation. So the user of the expropriation can be, like, the Republic of Croatia watching construction, I don't know the low-level railways or some airport, it could be a city to build some kindergartens or schools, but it could be Simens, for example, to build some thermal power plant. It can be I don't know, Janko, Marco, for building a greenhouse, it could be Peter for building flats in sequence, and that could be Hans Johan, and I don't know who Giovanni is doing some supermarket construction. What I want to speak out loud about here at this pay phone is, above all, these quarryes in Istria. We and quarrys need it's not a controversial, industrial stone that I know what it's called, building, decorative, it's something that you can't do without. But I'm calling on Mr. Representatives, Minister, I don't know who the government should come to Rakalj, let them descend down to Calavojna, or let them go to Brsica and look at what the coast looks like. Can any of that be of any use at all? Only those importers in Italy can benefit. The locals are freaking out, nature is devastated, and I'm saying there's no use for anyone unless someone put something in their pocket. The same thing now seems to be happening in Gračis and in a number of other places. Costs for the exorbitant real estate that Mrs. Anticevic was talking about. This is Article 46(1) and (2). So exactly, the fee for fully outstanding real estate is determined by the right to give in the property of another relevant property whose value corresponds to the level of the market value of the property. Article 2(2) if the owner of the property does not accept another relevant real estate or the expropriation user cannot provide such real estate compensation is determined in cash, at the level of the market value of the real estate that I do not read the other items. And it's exactly contitio son qua non, it has to be that natural restitution in the opposite market value. If there is a general rule of adequate land where a natural person is initiating extradition, I doubt it, and in this case there is an application of market value heights or a fair level of the market value of real estate expressed in paragraph 2. of Article 46. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I wouldn't want it to be because of the private interest of someone who's financially powerful to question the private interest of small people. Because these little people, like some people said before me, can't help themselves, big people don't need, they'll take care of themselves, they need someone from the state institutions to take care of them. This law must be written on the one hand for the sake of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, for the sake of public interest, it does not matter, the municipalities, the cities, the county that will say again to the people living in that area, must not dominantly, regardless of the chronic lack of investment being written for the private interest of any individual. Especially the individual who turned the state into a private one and then privatized it in front of the public. As a law, this law in my court is not a problem, but the problem is what practice can be, the problem is that individuals in this country have become rich in other people's pain, in Croatia often also in other people's blood. And when it comes to Istria in another's accident. Here, first of all, I think of the optans. It is clear that without such legal solutions or similar ones, it does not matter, but the Law of Extortion has every state and the Republic of Croatia, as it did, simply cannot function any country. This is a new law but since '94. We've had four interventions, so let's be clear, it wouldn't surprise me if, over time, that bill was revised a few more times. And what I'm particularly pleased about is not the subject of this law, it's this law that will follow the courts that finally bring the Trade Court back to the city of Pazin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78981	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78982	Thank you very much. Mr. Cain, I don't want a long replica. You were talking about a landscape that was visible in Istria after the exploitation of the quarry. Here you can see how persistent the state and state apparatus are in the construction of the Power Plant Ploče, which is the same energy facility, so one of the strategic investments for the Republic of Croatia. And we know well, not only us but also the associations and citizens of the valley of Neretva what will happen in the valley of Neretva after construction, do not give God, do not give God after the construction of the thermal power plant of the coal plate. So that on the coal is really one assumption that makes this problem for the valley of Neretva and, finally, for this whole sea belt, a coastal belt incredible in connection with this government's tenacity on such a so-called one. A strategic project.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78983	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78984	I'm glad you noticed that case. And I can only tell the following that you unreels don't let the mouth of your Neretva build a thermal power plant on coal. We in Istria and it is I dare say our historical sin, we allowed the 1970s to build the Plomin thermal power plant one on coal and here we now have not only two, soon there will be a troika and local self-government will not raise its voice and say and actually talk about what citizens simply expect of it. I'm going to say one more time, don't do what we did to our space in the '70s.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78985	Thank you very much. We continue the debate by the cubes of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the HNS club and the esteemed representative Marijan Skvarić. Here's your colleague, Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78986	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. When I talk about this law, first of all, it must be pointed out that property integrity is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, but the holders of ownership rights and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good by way of a law that can be taken away or limited by law, with market value compensation under the emphasis if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Which would be Croatia's greatest interest at the moment. Well, no doubt I think it is an urgent launch of a medical cycle and a prerequisite for the start-up of growth and development of the Croatian economy with the aim of hiring people and creating new values. The bottom line is solving property-legal relations. And when it's settled investments can generally be realised very quickly, but experience and theory say something different and practice. We know it's not like that with us. Most often problems arise when there is a conflict of public and private interest, i.e. the conflict between the rights of individuals to the estrangement of ownership and the interest in which the private interest is necessarily taken before the public. In that case, the exclusion is one, unfortunately, and the only measure to be implemented, which is a measure that always limits someone and something, or takes something away. In fact, taking possession of some things. This is only permitted if, by law, it provided for it, and the same can only be achieved in the general interest and only with a certain form of compensation with the mandatory protection of both the owner and the user of the authorisation. And that's why it's very good that this law went into two readings. The proposals and remarks largely incorporated into this final draft of the law have been carefully considered. I can also say that, by the comments, by the CNS that, above all, Article 20 and 19, which defined the costs that they were corrected in this section and found, in my opinion, one of the best and quality solutions. And also that part of the requirement, the deadlines in which they should be age, estimated values, or some others, that these deadlines are somehow adjusted and defined according to this real and situation that is now happening in our area. And regardless of what they would say, the administrative procedure is the expropriation of one of the most complex administrative procedures this law ultimately offers good solutions and legal solutions that define good procedures and those legal provisions. First of all, I'd like to mention a few things that are good and well defined. The subject of extradition, which is the most common property for building buildings or carrying out works of municipal, economic or business infrastructure. An expropriation user may be a natural or legal person, and the real estate authorisation must be used for the purpose of which the authorisation has been carried out. It reduces those speculations, insinuations that we'll resell land and there's a well-defined deadline if you don't do it in some time, then the expropriation itself and cancels. Extortion can be complete and incomplete, and can be temporarily taken into possession and neighbouring land. Indeed, all that is now included were examples of practices and problems in practice to introduce such a legal solution. Real estate can also be authorised after this law has established the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the way in which the construction and construction of the property must comply with the rightful location permit. It was about building and location permits, but we know that for a building permit at all times should be owned over that land, then a location permit and after, the foundation and the Construction Act is absolutely correct and good. The procedure concerning preparatory actions for the purpose of eviction and enforcement is carried out by the real and local competent office of the State Administration or the competent office of the City of Zagreb. And, of course, the introduction of an authorised real estate register will be an additional day to be able to control how the property is used, as well as the deadlines in which the beneficiary of the embezzlement is required to bring about the use of the property for the purposes for which the execution was carried out. So, the property authorisation register really once again potentiates the transparency and the public of all activities in the expropriation process itself9m so that there really is no speculation, there is no doubt and kindness and the purpose of this process itself. I would, of course, point out the two essential elements of this law in general when we look at it, which is primarily as the specificity of the extradition procedure, the circumstances arise that this procedure has two parts, which determines the existence of the interest of the Republic of Croatia to carry out the works for which it intends to access the delegation, and the other part of the rules that are relevant, which is that there is also a special procedure in which the compensation for the seized property is determined. That's two things. First we have to decide what we want to own and in whose interest it is, and then after that, we have to make sure that part of the real estate and other legal matters and we have to pay for it. Because everything about real estate, the expropriation of my experience as mayor is all about the fair price and the money, and they all do and protect their interest, so that I would respond to some colleagues who say they should protect both interest and those weakest. Believe me, when it comes to money, there are no weak ones. The biggest problem is that the negotiations are what and the grandmother herself know all the legal provisions, all the land prices and everything that needs to be done, so when it comes to money I don't really trust anyone at that point or defend. They know it very well themselves. Here I would mention in that first part of determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia. They are well defined above all in Article 13 and 15 that the construction and execution of works in the interest of the Republic of Croatia is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on a proposal by the user of the exemption, with the view that the interest of the Republic of Croatia has been established if a special law stipulates that the construction and execution of works is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And also on the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia outside the cases prescribed in Article 2 of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt, with the prior opinion of the Board of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the decision to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia is also published in the National Journal. Article 15 also defines that local administrations and regional seas are to submit the opinion of the municipal or city council and the county assembly, i.e. the City Assembly, for a proposal of interest. I think that then all of these levels of decision-making have contributed greatly to making that final decision really for what we said, which is to serve to develop both the local, regional and so on. Moreover, what I would like to mention is this second provision of the law, which is a fee for the transfer of property defined in Article 46. I still note from my experience, unfortunately, the disagreements about the price itself and about the funds are also very difficult. Thus, it is defined here that the compensation of fully expropriated property is determined as a rule by giving ownership of another relevant property whose value corresponds to the level of market value. Most of the time, as much as I've had some analysis, that's not the case. Because it's hard to give the same area of the particle, the same adequate value at the same place. Everyone would like something somewhere, and that part is very rare and it's fun. Most often it is carried out in a way that gives an adequate price for this land and then what is best can be purchased by the owner where he wants and how he wants. I think at this point it's also a good point that the market value of real estate is being ruled out at the time of the adoption of the first-degree solution and according to the properties of the property that it had before the change of purpose. Let's say that's now a comparison between the land exchange and the grant. This should mean that, if this is agricultural land, a ratio of 1 to 5 between agricultural land and the value of the land that will be at the time when it is built should perhaps be 1 to 5. I don't think that's real. What's existing is I think it's very good that one who's going to be an executor gets a fair fee and according to that point of the law that's been defined here. I think that's the right way. The basic purpose of the law at all times is that, ultimately, all property-legal relations to the property which are subject to the exemption seek to be resolved by agreement between the owners and the beneficiaries of the expropriation, which basically means that they are all satisfied with the success achieved. Yes, it is indeed an emphasis, as the minister said at the outset. It would be good if all of these procedures were to be settled by agreement, by agreement, and then, in the end, they started with a procedure like this. To be that kind of intensity and intent proves this law too. When everything is defined correctly, implementing relations, deadlines, competences can surely be sought by both sides in some way by each other and knows that all that does is basically a waste of time and that in the end it will finally turn out the same. It is true, then, that there are very different relations in this part of the law now, in this part of the law, about the negotiation itself, when, for example, the sale and purchase of land. And what I would particularly like to mention is that we have already heard in this debate that the basis of this law is that of a regulation assessing the value of real estate. The regulation is adopted by the Ministry of Construction and I am surprised that certain colleagues do not know that the regulation is already in the adoption procedure, that the regulation has indeed passed several public discussions. First of all, what is most important is that she passed the debate on that branch, which is the real estate agencies that are most interested in that part of the regulation. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, this property value assessment regulation addresses the fundamental issues of real estate valuation and who can assess real estate based on which data and methods. What is not good is that other than the Republic of Croatia at the moment the real estate assessment does not systematically resolve BiH, Macedonia, Kosovo, Albania and Montenegro. And other EU countries in our neighbourhood have either passed their own regulations or adopted international standards for real estate assessment. We hope that this regulation, which will surely have to be adopted as soon as possible after the adoption of this law, will be found in a group of countries that have adopted their own regulations and have international standards for assessment. Of course, the reasons for the adoption of the proposed regulation are in an unsustainable state of transport of real estate caused by the absence of a legal act which prescribes an assessment of the value of real estate in the Republic of Croatia. What the minister also noted was that the cases under consideration were separate... A regulation that only one part of the expropriation is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rest contains the right to build, the right to serve, the right to... and rights of housing, rights of use of public surfaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these things are defined by this Regulation, and only one part of this Regulation is authorized. What we would like to say in the end is that we should all be interested in introducing order. Solutions must be of quality. The new regulation, as we have said, must come immediately with this law and will thus disappear from the practice of mass free evaluation, and will be based on concrete instructions, and will be the basis of the prices at which the real estates that the IRS data will be sold to the evaluators. Here and finally, indeed, the HNS club will support this final bill because the law is enforceable. Also, all the problems that were in practice are respected in this law. It is defined that the procedures will be quick, most importantly for us, especially at the level of local and regional self-government and also for all procedures is very publicly available and more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78987	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78988	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Skvarić, with one part of your presentation, agrees, in the part where you talk about the need for the law to be more transparent, easier for the users of the expropriation on the one hand, and on the other hand, and about the owners of the land. I, in the replica of the minister in his opening statement, said that this law practically prescribed certain constructions in the Republic of Croatia that are specifically prescribed by law as projects of interest for the Republic of Croatia, so there are also mentions of sports buildings. I think it applies primarily to golf. Because when we talk about these sports buildings that occupy huge spaces that are primarily golf courses. But I think that this law could really have made a radical step, shortened the procedure of expropriation in such a way that as it prescribed that certain buildings, buildings and works in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, for which no process of determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia should be carried out, which is prescribed by a special law, which is justified. Then let's not see why we didn't go any further. So since we're going to bring a spatial plan, a state plan of spatial development and up to... to prescribe all buildings, buildings and works that are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why such facilities should then be implemented and determined by the interest of the Republic of Croatia when all these facilities will go through a debate in the Croatian Parliament during the adoption of the state plan. If we're going to be radical until the end then, and you're the head of a local self-government unit, you know that the most complicated procedure for you is to make a spatial plan, even more complicated than budgeting. So if the unit of local self-government, with the agreement of regional self-government, is shown by all ministries that, for example, children's kindergarten, which was spoken of by the minister I do not need to establish the interest of the Republic of Croatia, because this significantly reduces the overall process. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78989	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Marijan Škvarič.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78990	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. We absolutely agree that we need to shorten the procedure because it really is a very important time from the moment you want to make an investment to when you conclude it. You said that, indeed, when we see little that the spatial plan takes two years to bring it in, so after the passage of the spatial plan, conditions have been obtained that we can go into the purchase of land that is in this procedure from my experience, it takes you two to three years, another year to produce project documentation, and another two years to complete some investment. Then we can really say that we have to look to shorten the procedure in the maximum possible way. Yeah, but at the same time, shortening procedures, if there's no good argument, big mistakes can happen, and those mistakes have happened in the past, and someone's made some decisions without going through any kind of procedure. This procedure, which is defined by the Government, the Committee of the Croatian Parliament and to cities, municipalities and counties, is what we need to implement and this procedure should be respected but we need to be responsible for what we are to these bodies that we will make adequate timely decisions, not to be called the silence of bureaucracy. And on the other hand, what was defined as having already had strategic documents, yes, and you were talking about sports buildings, is there I would then point out what was more important, certainly not from sports buildings are important building camps, excuse me, golf courses, but that building sports camps that will include education and skills of sports and other things above all of our youngest, all age generations is a strategic interest in me. And then we certainly can't discuss it now, but when such an investment comes to Croatia, it takes at least four to five sports camps, then it will certainly make a decision by the Government on our initiative from local regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78991	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Civil Party and independent representatives of Jadranka Kosor. Dear representative Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78992	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague here today, on the agenda, we have a proposal for a law of expropriation with a determination of compensation. This law regulates the way in which the expropriation will be performed as well as the way in which the interest of the Republic of Croatia will be determined on the subject of extradition. The solutions offered by this proposal will not result in an infringement of ownership which is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The ownership is guaranteed by the Constitution and this property inviolability has been established by this law in such a way that, in the event of the withdrawal of a partial or complete or even exclusive ownership of the property or construction facility, the market value of the aliquot and adequate subject matter of expropriation is paid to the owner. This market value is determined by the evaluator or authorised court expert, and the market value is the value that can be achieved at a given moment on the free market, respecting the elements of supply and demand. So when we look at property as a category of owners that are taken away from property, its property will not be taken away because it will only be converted from one form of ownership to another form. So, from the assumption of the land being taken away into financial assets that instead of land becomes new property of the owner of which the subject of the expropriation has been granted or taken away. This law, this bill of law, is one step forward, in my opinion, in relation to the existing law. I will also explain why, until now, we have had situations where the confiscation of land or expropriation has been disabled and it has lasted indefinitely for reasons that an unconfirmed holder of ownership could not access or rule out the subject of expropriation for the reasons that potential owners have conducted court disputes for years in determining who really is the owner. It used to take a few decades. This proposal for a law makes a very good solution for such situations in such a way that the user of the solution, the beneficiary of the exemption, with a presentation of the rightful location permit, submits a request to the competent ministry or to the competent authority for extradition with the attached powerful location permit, and in situations where the owner of the subject-matter is not identified, the competent ministry or the competent authority shall make a decision obliging the user of the exemption to deposit on a specific account the financial assets which are the market equivalent to the subject of extradition. And in my opinion, the greatest value and quality solution of this law is right in that part because it solves what no one has solved so far. This will help to pave the way for the realisation of investment projects, investment cycles that are naturally responsible for the development and growth of the Croatian economy. There is yet another insurmountable barrier and obstacle that has made a narrow throat in the realisation of investment projects. Unfortunately, this bill has failed to remove the barrier, but I hope that the competent ministry will work on it and that this problem will be resolved, and I will describe this problem a little longer because I will use the chronological sequence to provide a diagram of the actions that a potential investor must take to launch his investment project. We need investment, we're all aware of that, and that's why we all have to work on creating conditions for these investments to be launched. So, I'll take it in a row. Based on a spatial plan, i.e. a detailed arrangement plan for a micro location, it is prescribed which uses it, i.e. it can be built on a given location. Whether it's a production plant, whether it's a tourist-food facility, whether it's a residential building or something else, it doesn't matter, it's important that someone's interested in starting that investment cycle. So, based on a detailed plan of arrangements, the potential investor is seeking, obtaining a powerful local authorisation from local self-government, or its professional services. Based on the established rightful locational permits and detailed planning of the arrangement, the investor employs professionals, geodetics that build parcels. The plotting elaborate comprises the cleavage of land and forms unique land particles according to the detailed planning of the arrangement, both for the investor where it marks its ownership, where the investment will be realised, and for the user of the expropriation where it singles out and defines and forms a single plot of land on which something of the general good will be built, whether it is a public road, public road, infrastructure, water, electrical or other. Furthermore, when a plottation laboratory is developed, it is turned into a cadastre. The catastra is obliged to carry out the same work through a catastrian operation, in a way that forms unique cadastrian land particles and thus implements an elaborate together with the application list to deliver to the competent land library department of municipal competent courts. Afterwards, the land-based library departments of the competent municipal courts should carry out through land-based books the above-mentioned registration sheet and the elaborate, thus forming a land-based book cartridge and new formed building particles, whether they are necessary for the investor or user of the expropriation. What's the problem? Well, the problem is in the slowness of the administration, the slowness of the court and the slowness of the court in the conduct of these parcels which are supposed to be at all an investor could launch an investment, and I therefore believe that the proposer should by law prescribe an exact time-limit in which both the cadastre and the court are obliged to carry out the elaborates so that they do not form a stumbling block on the way between investors and that they would not be a narrow throat in achieving something of public interest and that is for the common good, well-wide social communities, and not just investors. Furthermore, because of the slowness to determine those actions in the catastro and court, the potential of the investor cannot ask, let alone obtain neither the building permit nor the confirmation of the main project. So, the assumption of obtaining confirmation of the main project today, yesterday's building permits is a neat land-based book extract and a cadastrian leaf where exactly the formed land particle is listed on which the investment is planned to be realised. Without these assumptions, this law will not bring those economic benefits that are expected of it and I think it offers very good solutions, a step forward in relation to the existing law. Therefore, this law also protects the private owner, whether he is a privateer or a natural or legal person, it is irrelevant because his property is not compensated, although at market value, he is paid for it if something is taken away or taken away, and further generally, it is well satisfied because he will not stop investment. The extradition procedure is an emergency procedure under this proposal, but it is also an emergency procedure under existing law. But for whom is it urgent? Emergency for the expropriation user and the investor. But so far it has not been urgent for either the cadastre or the court, and that is the bond that needs to be eliminated and which should be put into function of the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy. Freedom of entrepreneurship and freedom of the market is what the Croatian economy is based on. If we do not remove all the barriers and do not create the conditions that this freedom of entrepreneurship can really be realized in reality, then we will not achieve anything or very little of it. I'd like to touch the cost of exorcism. In my opinion, the cost of expropriation should fall on the burden of the user's expropriation, the one who seeks authority. I think that would be in some way both fair and fair. I'd just like to touch the prices for the expropriated land that pays off the property or the value. We all know what was in history, which was during the time we had the former state. We know that she was in charge of confiscation and nationalization and expropriation and that neither, nor the other, was fair. It was called if something had been paid on the basis of the expropriation, it had the name of a fair fee, not that it was not just, it was neither fair nor fair, it was offensive, and it was simply not acceptable anymore. Therefore, the determination of market value is commendable. I will support this law on behalf of the Croatian Civil Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78993	Thank you very much. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78994	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague, Becic, you've mentioned several times that the fee will be determined as a market value, so to the owner of a particular property. That's what the law really says. However, in Article 46(3), there is a trap that may not be seen at the right sight because it needs to be concentrated on page 13 and on page 14 of the law. a the trap is that the fee is to be determined as the market value of the property, but taking into account the useful properties of the property it had prior to the change of purpose which is the cause of the exemption. So, in practice, it means, unless the owner of the land receives an adequate plot in the same municipality in the same city, etc. It cannot continue to deal with its activity, the value of that property will be determined by the fact that it was agricultural land, the price is, say, 2 euros, and after that, it will become a building land and the price will be much, much higher and the land owner will not, of course, feel a bit. Now, look in much more orderly legal states you have a case specifically in the United States, if the state wants to protect an area and declare a national park in a particular area where land owners exist, the American state is obliged to provide those land owners in other areas, building areas of adequate value of the real land that can be used, so if you have already restricted it then you must provide it in another area the possibility to develop on the basis of its ownership. In this case, it will obviously work here to re-use land will become building land will get hundreds of times worth, but the owners of these properties will receive compensation as well as agricultural land will get the smallest... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78995	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The answer to the replica of Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78996	Thank you very much. I would refer to your exposure and in a way that I can responsibly state to you that even now in the process of taking away land for the purpose of building roads in a particular procedure, I will not say exactly which procedure, it was before the expropriation, before the confiscation was actually built, and after the party was called into the Office of State Administration to reach an agreement of the Office of State Administration, they treated the same property as agriculture. He says that according to the location of the Croatian roads, it is not a construction site. You see, therefore, even under the current law, it was not fair, and whether this new bill that we are discussing today will be more market-oriented and just or not show practice. I believe they will and that the owners with this solution will be more satisfied than they were with the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78997	Vesna Scare Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78998	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bečić, I will agree with you that this bill has good solutions, quality that are much better than the last, or this current law. However, by listening to you, you have practically described the path that the investor is going through in this country, and from which it is very clear that even if we pass such a law, he will not solve the torment of the investor. The path of investors in this country is filled with heavy thorns. Therefore, there is a need for a whole series of legal solutions that will speed up procedures but, above all, I am thinking of an effective state administration and the court should also allow the investor to make an investment as soon as possible. We're a country that refuses, which is hostile to investment. And we can carry all kinds of legal solutions, great legal solutions but they have no practice. And that's exactly what you said. That's exactly what you said. And to pass this law, I'll quote you, things won't move again if this, this and that, change of spatial plans, the court reacts faster, the grunting reacts, the catastra reacts. So 4, 5 things still need to be done for the investor to get his investment and we're saying that we're a country that needs to attract investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u78999	The answer to the replica of Nevenka Becic. Please give your colleagues a sign that you want to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79000	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ozbolt. Thank you, Mr. President. So, teaching my colleague's exposure, I'd say next. It is true that the investor's path towards realising the investment is filled with thorns, but with good will these thorns can be removed. Without a powerful building permit, i.e. without confirmation of the main project, the investor cannot neither claim nor obtain from financial institutions the credit funds necessary for the realisation of the investment. And to that end, and since we all have the need to run investment cycles in the Republic of Croatia, I am convinced that the competent ministry will take certain measures under the law that will remove these obstacles that I have put forward in my presentation, as well as my colleague, Ozbolt, has listed them in her replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79001	And Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79002	Thank you. Yes, you are colleagues, Becic, from the position of investors, or through the experience of investors, you have brought out these problems. The tea is, I'd go up on one side we have a cadastre and a garter as some traditional institution, the question is whether we need a separate cadastre and grantovnica, maybe it's time, time to finally get it into the years that come together into one institution. That's one thing. And the other thing, the slowness of the judiciary and in this case is actually practically traditional though I don't know exactly if there are examples where the employer actually restricted the court deadlines in which something must be carried out. It might be good, maybe it would be good if there were a number of defined deadlines on which courts have to make decisions, even though I don't know if we have any such definitions in our judiciary that we give the court a month or three months, that it simply has to make a decision whatever that decision is. And if that could be the case, it might be good to define in different respects, in fact, the deadlines in which decisions should be made because, in fact, less or less of this slowness and ineffectiveness of the judiciary is one of the points by which our state has been recognised and in the entire accession process, and today it is recognised and re-recognizable in these one-year, semi-annual assessments again, as one of the fundamental problems of the functioning of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79003	The answer to the replica of Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79004	I agree completely with you and what you've brought out. In addition to supplementing that precisely because of all the present recession that has been going on for too long and because of the difficult situation in which the Croatian economy is located, I think that the implementation of the parcels and application papers in the cataster and in court should have priority ahead of other cases and all in order to finally launch the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Just by opening up the necessary jobs and starting to create added value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79005	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC and Independent Representatives of fellow Members Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79006	Dear Madam Vice President, the respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have this second reading of the Act of Exclusion. I must admit that, compared to this first reading that we recently had, this legislative proposal has experienced changes. I'm going to commend certain solutions and I especially like this registries register. I think the register that would be run by the Ministry of Justice is absolutely helping and transparency information about expropriated properties. But I'm saying, and I've already said that in replicas there are solutions here that are absolutely weird, they're looking for clarification. Because as the investor's path is planted with thorns, you have, in some solutions, beaten the property owners completely needlessly. And all in the name of some sort of emergency procedure. In that first proposal, there was no such provision in Article 19 co-financing of the work of the authorities responsible for carrying out the extradition procedure, despite the fact that the minister has in some way already given an explanation to me they are seriously intruding here that an agreement will be concluded between the head of the body and the beneficiaries of the delegation. If it is said that only the material costs of going out on the ground are paid, then the agreement should be signed, which would require the signing of an agreement between the beneficiaries of the empowerment and the state body leading the procedure. Now what's the Justice Department gonna do when he's running the procedure with the investor? I think that sounds ugly, and I definitely suggest you go out with the amendment and explain this Article 19 in a way that costs when it's said to be, that the investor partially finance the affairs of the state body and make an agreement. Please make that absolutely clear. There's no reason to doubt what you said, but I think it requires an explanation. Otherwise, they will be constantly suspected of some kind of immorality, anti-constitution or corruptive sense of corrupt activity by the state body. The next thing I want to point out is the provision of Article 38, which means the costs of the procedure. And that's where there's been some shifts. Prior to the cost of the procedure was borne by the user of the exemption, each party now bears its own costs. Therefore, it is the costs of the procedure, better said on the costs of legal representation of property owners who are forced to enforce the extradition procedure, are imposed against the will and are now still being thrown out by significant costs. And if he doesn't have legal help, he's practically going to fall, or he's going to give up, and he's going to say, "I'm going to agree to this price." In this way, alluding that now I may be speaking in favor of the legal lobby, and I'm not saying, I'm speaking in favor of the property owner's party you're practically forcing him to sign and agree to the price you're offering him. I don't think that's fair and it's not right. I'm not going to go into some kind of a place right now, so I don't get the ideological thesis wrong. But we haven't had such a provision that the owner of the property bears the costs of the extradition procedure since '47. A year. What's that for? If an investor is financed by a state authority which manages an expropriation in part, and what is the problem with financing and the costs of the extradition procedure? What's the problem? I don't see at all what the problem is except that you're just not doing some kind of pressure under the table to get the owner to agree to the price as quickly as possible. And I don't think that's right in some way. What I'd like to draw attention to, and what I also think needs to be clarified. So this is all I'm saying in some good sense is Article 46, and that's paragraph 3. He was quoted by fellow Cain and others, but he did not quote him until the end. For the purposes of Article 46(1), the following point is inserted after point (c) of the first subparagraph: In the event that the owner of the property does not accept the other relevant real estate, the compensation shall be determined in cash at the level of the real estate market value. And then comes the famous paragraph 3 where the fee is said to be determined as the market value of the real estate that is subject to at the time of the adoption of a first-degree settlement or at the time of the conclusion of a settlement under this law, taking into account the useful property property property which had before the change of purpose which is the cause of the exemption. What does that mean? This means that you do not pay, in practice or that the expropriation user does not pay the market value, because the market value has changed, but pays the practical value according to the earlier purpose, taking into account the obvious so-called “market value”. the principle of ex ante impact. And the existing law that we have now is an absolutely better solution than this bill suggests. In particular, the applicant suggested that the land should be paid as agricultural if it was used earlier, even though, for example, the spatial plan was declared a building plan, and today at the time of the determination of the compensation, it has a building land status. And I think that's where the real estate owner is seriously damaged. Here I see Shuker on the road towards Gorica, you have beautiful plots that are restricted by both highway and railway and airport and there is suitable for building land for both industrial capacities and commercial and I do not know any other business facilities. It's agricultural land. With spatial plans, it's easy to change into construction. And what will be the price the real estate owners will get? On agricultural land according to this proposal for legal solutions. And I don't think that's good. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the contracting authorities have the right to compensation for the market value for outstanding properties. Therefore, here we are in absolute violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because this provision of Article 3 states that the compensation is determined at the level of the market value that is being ruled out and that is not the case at all. At the same time, it foresees that the fee determines the useful properties of the property that the property had prior to the change of purpose which is the reason for the exemption. So it's so-called. the right or principle of previous impact. And all in favor of public interest. Therefore, the assets can be equated in the public interest, but the compensation for the equated assets is paid at the level of its market value. So, respecting market relations. And I think that should be the right criterion for paying the property to the owner. The next thing I know is a building dispute, so this part of the 48th building was built without an act on which it can be built according to a specific regulation, or contrary to that act. In the case of a building owner, the building owner shall not have the right to compensation for a building that has been built without an act on which it can be built under a specific regulation, or which is built against that act, that is, paragraph 1. And then you have an item 7 where an expropriation procedure is said will not be terminated if the beneficiary of the property and the owner of the property agree that the compensation of the value for the illegally built building is determined by applying the rules on the market value of the property in accordance with Article 11 of this Act. And now, according to the proposed provision of paragraph 7, a practical discretionary right is given to the user of the exemption that, for example, one of the lawless builders whose illegal building is located on the road track pays the market value of an illegal facility, and the other builder knocks down an illegally built building without any right to compensation. And it seems to us that such a provision is unsustainable and we don't think it can survive in any law, and it practically pleases a kind of corrupt action. Here, in short these are our remarks. There were speeches, and the minister himself spoke as the reasons for mixing land for this law, however, mixing land can be very easily prevented without practically damaging landowners who acquired this land by legal work, inheritance, donation, etc. And it can be solved in a way that, for example, legally prescribes the establishment of first purchase rights on those properties that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Here, these are briefly remarks made by our club, and if, here we have handed over the amendments, if they are not adopted, we will be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79007	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79008	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues, Škare-Ozbolt, agree that, in certain provisions of this law, it is an improvement compared to existing solutions, but that there are a number of provisions that need to be corrected. So I agree with you and the part where you say that the owner of the land whose land is ruled should not participate even in material costs. We're just here to comment on what if the owner is in Australia, he needs to be seen. It is often the cost of that time more than the area and the value of the property that is managed. But what I think could have been an important step forward in the Exclusion Act is a significant reduction in procedures. In this respect, it is certainly necessary to welcome all those legal provisions, which were also in the earlier law that certain structures and works of interest to the Republic of Croatia should not be subject to this process of establishing interest because this process of establishing interest is very long. It is carried out on one side by the Government, or by the Ministry of Justice, and then it comes to the Parliament, and then it is shown by the Committee on Spatial Planning, the Committee on the Economy of the Parliament, is returning to the Government, etc. This procedure is needed where we can doubt whether any building is of interest to the Republic of Croatia or not. But I think that we could have made a real step in the moment when all the objects that we have established by the laws or documents of spatial regulation that the buildings of interest for the Republic of Croatia for them should not have been implemented and that would have significantly accelerated the procedure and perhaps not made Croatia full of thorns for investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79009	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79010	So here is a good example of the owner of the property that is in Australia, now needs to come to Croatia and perform the procedure or participate in the extradition process and still bear all the costs. It's an excellent example of what we're going to do if this legal proposal stays to the end. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79011	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79012	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to show myself to is a part of the presentation of a distinguished representative relating to the costs of the body's work carried out by the authority. So here I think it's absolutely okay that the costs especially when we're talking about the material work of the body carried by the authority are precisely the user of the authority. In fact, the expropriation procedure is carried out precisely in favour of the user of the expropriation, and it is perfectly normal for him to finance the material costs and it is entirely and consistent with the proposal that the user of the expropriation should bear all the material costs such as the cost of the art, i.e. assessment of the value of the property and when they relate to the owner of the property. In this context, it is perfectly normal and that an agreement is concluded between the beneficiaries of the exemption and the bodies carrying out the authorisation. The law stipulates that there are parameters for this, that they are determined by the minister and what is particularly important in such an agreement, that each such agreement will be made public and thus transparent and that all will be able to see under what conditions the user of the empowerment shall bear and finance a part of the work of the bodies carrying out the empowerment. And in other words, I will pull one parallel, which is a parallel with the work of the body of local self-government when an investor who owns a larger, or more difficult part of the area for which the spatial plan is developed is costing the development of the plan. This does not mean that the plan will ultimately be exactly what the investor, or the user of the expropriation, wants but that the costs will be spent on it will indeed mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79013	The answer to the line of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79014	Thank you very much. My colleague, Grbin, I have troubled this article on the 19th, first because it was not in the first reading, he has now hurried into this second reading, in this final proposal. I'm saying he came in on purpose because I don't even know what part of the cost is considered to be under co-financing. So, I suggest that the ministry write something more concrete in this regard to the vote. What it includes is really not clear, and to me personally it sounds very ugly to me that the ministry that will carry out the extradition procedure in some cases prescribes what material costs are and concludes an agreement with the investor. That sounds ugly to me no matter how logical it makes sense to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79015	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79016	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues Skare-Ozbolt and I were amazed by this moment of participation in the costs of expropriation, you've legally, professionally elaborated, but we all think here when some notion is mentioned from our local level, each immediately in their heads has an example as it does about that highway and fellow Schuker. I'm thinking locally and I think it's here in this agricultural land you're always kind of a flat-rate approach. So farm land at least in the part where I come from that life means, it's a basic activity and every pedal, we had the expression every inch of the country was processed. And now anyone who tries to go to us is always harmful, always harmful. And now I'm looking at an example, and now there's one coming, and there's this hydrocarbon explosion, and there's this one thing going on, and it's going on and it's going on, and now it's just like that anecdote about a consultant. First you came here I didn't call you, second you're doing me health and environmental damage, and third I still have to pay for it. Well, we're not such a masochist, we have a nice one in our neighborhood, he says, "Let's just help." mostly not in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79017	The answer to the line of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79018	A respected colleague, in a way, would agree with you, but this share of the cost, the sharing of the cost on the investor and the owner of the property, and for a procedure in which the owner does not participate, because to participate in his will, he would then sell the real estate on the market, but he is taking part in the procedure imposed on him. So this is exclusively, except for the intention of pressing, just like this I point my thumb, press the owner of the property to give up and quickly agree to the price. And when you have a big investor and comes with strong law houses and you have a small owner legally ignorant party who is still aware that he has to bear the costs then of course he'll agree to say here I am, he'll be scared. It's this provision that also wasn't in the first reading, it's exclusively for the purpose of pressure on the owner of the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79019	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79020	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues, Scare-Ozbolt, you come from the legal circles, so I understand the intention of your debate. However, if we look at Articles 19 and 38, let us consider, for example, whether we are looking at Articles 19 and 38. Free will, not where the investor is due to his own interests, requires the authority, the interest of the state clearly, but let us take a free purchase contract, who is the cost of the costs incurred, including taxes and everything in the free purchase agreement between the two sides? He's carrying a buyer, so here and here in this article, all the costs should be borne exactly by me, and I don't know how you think, the one who's interested, who has an interest in that investment, the one who wants to own some real estate from someone else. I don't see any reason for this. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79021	The answer to the line of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79022	Well, look, I would definitely agree with you that, all the time I'm saying, that it is necessary to return the provision that the investor is carrying out the expropriation process, to return the provision to pay off the market value of the property. If you return the payment of the market value of the property, then the procedure will not take long, there will be no risk that, I do not know, the owner of the property will try to delay the procedure and the practical procedure will be completed very quickly and therefore there is no reason for any delay in the cost of the extradition procedure to be transferred to the owner of the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79023	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79024	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Ozbolt, I think you've touched one key thing, and that's the concept of market value, and we need to be aware that the concept of market value in public investment and private investment is basically different. Why? Because public investment is in principle taking place on agricultural or forest land. In the space that is so defined, but someone in the spatial plan has plotted that there will be a corridor for something, whether for the road, whether for the rail, whether for the canal or for anything else. However, this is in the natural agricultural land and no market traffic in economic activity has taken place around the area. Therefore, there is market value of that. Now you're asking each other a question. Tomorrow when you make a highway or a railroad or something else, it's being built with a spatial plan because it's inappropriate to be agriculturalally turned into something else and what in a year or two is enormously jumping up. Therefore, this notion of market value is one in these situations, and the other is transport, the definition of market value in private investment. Private investors generally purchase land in a space defined by a spatial plan and what is crucial, the market value in urban areas and the market value in rural areas. So this market value might be the most controversial thing in this law, the most controversial because you don't have the formula by which you can determine. You don't even have a definition today of what kind of land status is, say, the 30-year-old corridor where the highway goes, what is the status of that land? Is this land agricultural or construction? So that's, first of all, to be able to determine the market value, you have to determine the status of that. So these are the things that are crucial, and when you add this to it that whoever's forced to sell the country has to pay for it, I think it's funny. And that it should simply be named, but because of all the problems, just one sentence, please, because of all the problems, Mr. Minister, colleague Ozbolt, that's why I've replicated, because of all the problems, you have to clearly define what the market value is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79025	Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79026	Yes, fellow Shuker, this is where the question of market value and fair compensation is raised. Therefore, the market value, and that is the name itself, is the value that is related to the price of real estate that is achieved on the market, and the fair fee is not always related to market value and it can go below market value, and that is the case in what I have said about the principles of the previous impact that is trying to through this Article 49, paragraph 3 of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79027	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79028	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would also, dear colleagues, refer to your objections to this law regarding the market value of real estate and the very fees that are defined in that section. What they would say, however, is that, in the case of market value and property legal relations, a large part of the agreement should be agreed between the purchaser and the seller to agree on a real value. But most often when it's not agreed, precisely because the one who sells, of course, asks him to make market value much bigger than it is real. What I can generally say, however, as a local leader, that the value of land and land position and its contents are defined by a spatial plan and the spatial plan is precisely defined what is building land, it will be valued and sold as building land. But what is agricultural land, it must be valued as agricultural land no matter what anyone thinks about it. And there are some good examples of practices that I can say a few. The first is that in the part where you go, say, the road through agricultural land, then of course that road, you will pay for this land on agricultural land because the whole area is more or less defined as agricultural land, unless someone changes it, more or less. At the same time, it must be understood that after some time, if the road is built there, this land may later gain greater value. And there have been examples that people gave free land to create a road corridor because they are aware that after that the market value will be higher. And here it's well set up when you go into negotiations that exactly you know how and in what way you're going to pay that land in relation to what's defined by a spatial plan, and here I don't think there's going to be any doubt. Someone will want more, absolutely agree, but it helps us local leaders to first of all, another thing that is well defined there, that if the road goes through agricultural land, then there's a possibility that the rest where that road doesn't go can be bought under these same conditions and there goes...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79029	Thank you. Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79030	Well, my colleague, I am now practically you, trying to figure out what you wanted to say, but I think it would be far more fair to the owner of the property that gives his agricultural land for future construction land, to be paid at the cost of building land because it doesn't give that land voluntarily, it gives it for more, because of the public interest, therefore such a provision existed, it exists in the current law, so I don't know why you're turning your head if there was a much better solution for the owner in the current law than we now intend to adopt it in this new one. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79031	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79032	Here, fellow MPs, you mentioned paragraph 3 and it would not be at all controversial when we look at Article 2, for which land, highways, roads, municipal infrastructure is extracted, and in this part it is so if there is something agricultural land, and it is invested and some road, sewerage, waterway and everything is fully understood, but the danger is somewhere else. The danger is in those laws we've recently passed, I've been discussing it, the Strategic Investment Act. The strategic investment law that has divided madly into me, investments in 20, 75 or 150 million kuna and given authority to the state, the ministries or some kind of DUDI that somewhere in a place like you said, or a forest or a field or meadow, it is literally the minister of the economy who told me so, the investor is not where we are going to do what we have to do with a spatial plan, but where he's going to go. For such, I should consider another item that should define such situations. The other problem is to the units of local self-government, where spatial plans have been adopted, where they have been defined and put into operation by some business zone, and I have been giving amendments to the units of local self-government where there are hundreds of unsettled catastrus and procedure that lasts for years in order to even resolve property relations in that area within the urban plan of this law when a special law has already been laid down, and no amendments have been allowed to enable local self-government units to, but with a fair compensation, allow such land to be put into office because the infrastructure in which huge funds have been invested has been built. With such land simply irretrievably lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79033	The answer to the replica of Vesna Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79034	I almost have no objection to what you have stated, with a note that the Constitution is talking about a market fee, not a fair fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79035	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79036	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I think that two questions have been crystallized which should really be further addressed, this is a question with the share of property owners in the participation of costs which is absolutely unacceptable and it is rightly totally unacceptable for someone who is forced to go into the process because of someone else's will absolutely not have to be in such a position that they have to participate in the costs of such a procedure, so I absolutely agree with you that this is unacceptable. The second question is Article 46. That the devil does not rest well enough speaks part of a sentence which therefore says by taking into account the useful properties of the property she had before the change of purpose. So the change of purpose is known how it can be done, only through spatial-planned documentation. We have had cases of land-mixing and even of highly-ranked politicians who have resigned when buying land at the price of not even agricultural land but simply land that is not built is not even agriculturally even less valuable than agricultural land. And in spatial plans, they've been re-intentioned into building land, where they've gained a huge profit. And the owners of that land couldn't do it because they weren't in position because their request for a change of purpose failed with local authorities, but by changing the owners' titles, there was also a change of purpose. So here is the exclusive word for me I agree with you that it is a matter of private investors who will change their purpose to one position to make this land far more valuable than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79037	The answer to the replica of Vesna Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79038	Yes, I think that should be said, and that is my opinion, so the current Law on Exclusion in my opinion is fully in line with the Constitution in this section that I'm talking about because it says that property can exceptionally be subtracted from ownership if it is in the state or in the public interest, but that a market fee must be paid for the asset. This Final Proposal of the Law on Execution in my opinion, in this section, comes out of the provisions of the Constitution because it only formally and seemingly prescribes a market fee, and it actually contains criteria for determining so-called so-called "market fee". fair compensation to the owner of the property to be managed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79039	Thank you. The word has Minister Orsat Milnic. Here are the ministers for the pay phone. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79040	Thank you very much. Those few questions that go through the debate. First, the fee and participation of investors in the cost. I still don't see why we as taxpayers would be involved in paying for this if we could say Croatian roads that build something why not participate in the material cost. And I also think that this has to be arranged by agreement just to be transparent, to know who pays, the agreement is public and I don't see what's wrong with it. So why would we switch everything to the burden of a state administration office that we know for ourselves, is that what happens to us often? You have, say, one corridor that goes anywhere Long Village, you're there temporarily for the purposes of exorcising you need more people, you need more resources but it's 6 months. So what's wrong with the investor taking part in it? What are we going to hire people out there for indefinitely and then what after six months, and we don't need so many people, we don't need space there. No, no, there were objections to why an agreement was concluded with the investor on the participation in the material cost I'm talking about. That was the first point of discussion, just a little bit. The other thing, every side of your expenses, it's also asking a question. So the cost is primarily borne by the state administration's office. It's the work, he decides the cost of art and evaluations that will be arranged objectively with always the investor. According to your Law of Administrative Procedure, the state administration's office is concerned, it's his job. It's not the investor who's running the extradition procedure. It's being run by the state. And we transferred all this material cost to the investor. So why should he still have to finance, as a rule, an obscenity that has no logic or purpose but to fill the cost? And the State Administration's office has to take care of that. So that's what we thought about and it's too often in practice. I'm talking about market value, what you said. It's absolutely one key moment not in this process but everywhere. The constitution determines the market value, before we had a fair value I mean in the Expropriation Act so it was abandoned because it was inapplicable, it was actually perhaps an even worse solution. But the Constitution says that the market value does not define a methodology as to how we will determine it or what it really is. Here, when attacking this solution, they all ignore until now the last part of the sentence that says change for the purpose of expropriation. So if the spatial plan changed something from the agricultural construction so normally it would be paid under construction. But if it's changed from a road construction farm only to that reason, then it doesn't make sense, because that road has no market value. As you as the owner of agricultural land and now you have a road only the road, it only changes for road construction, so where it makes sense for you to get then an expropriation of the value of the road. ... But, no, no, no, you have a solution. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They were under the old law. So, you have, you understand, but if she's changed to construction because she's changed a whole spatial plan so normally the authorities will get the price of construction. And another thing, this is not an absolute determination because there are a whole series of parameters, it says explicitly here, and it's also predicted in the schedule, it says, so it's not going to be defined by that. But I repeat, taking into account the purpose she had before the exorcism, but precisely for the sake of expropriation. So it's not true if agriculturals went into construction, in general to the construction because the space changed, normally that they would pay for construction, but if your road passes so she doesn't have a market price... Because it's only going through that road, that there's no road that's still agricultural. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we have to do it. That's the one for Big Gorica. So what's our price difference, that's why. And then comes a speculant who knows the road goes that way, and that's us, I think we're having a debate in favor of these people. He knows there's a road coming, he buys from a poor owner for a kuna that I don't know anything, no one protects him here because there's no one out there asking who's gonna represent him, right, he sold it for the kuna and then this one on it earned 500 kuna per square because he knows that's where the road's going to go. Well, we have to contain it and it's an idea. Why don't we talk about who's going to pay the cost of this guy who sold the kuna? And that's what happens in practice and there's the owners damaged. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79041	Thank you. And now we'll go after the replicas, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79042	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you haven't explained too much to us in relation to what we just said. You're talking about the road and some land. Article 2 prescribed it, I said. In Article 2, you also have paragraph 3. In paragraph 3, the real estate in this sense is also needed for the implementation of strategic projects, the construction of strategic facilities. That's the second law, that's what I was talking about earlier. The Strategic Investment Act. At this time, the strategic investment law plans to make strategic investment that land that is not covered by the spatial plan, the urban plan or the purpose. So by a government decision or by a ministry at one point when an investor x appears he can give that property. And yet we return to what Mrs. Ozbolt was saying, that famous item 3 again, where it is given and paid the market value of the land at the moment it was before. And that's where we get that huge price difference. We are not saying anything or criticising anything in terms of municipal infrastructure, we are not criticising what is already in advance, but at this moment defined by the spatial plans of the units of local self-government or strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia. But it is in this sense that these two new laws that we have passed and a proposal for an urgent procedure where they are not respected, except for these strategic investments of amendments that we have put on this particular topic, that is precisely what raises doubts that it might be very easy for someone to be unfairly paid in that part that defines the price itself. And one more thing that we're talking about and what's not here in Article 2. Article 2 of the Real estate may also be authorised if it is specific to the law Special laws are, just to finish, these special laws have been passed. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] However, it is not possible for units of local self-government to rule out land, economic purposes b defined by a spatial plan to build working plateaus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79043	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79044	Here I think I didn't refer to yours but to the previous exposure because I gave it to him. What you are saying about Article 2 is absolutely something that we can consider. So, I have referred to this article where this determination is disputed previously, according to the previous purpose. That's what I referred to. And what you're saying is... He can separate the public from the potential private, that's what we'll do, here's what I agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying that's why I didn't refer to it. I only gave an answer to this second one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79045	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79046	So Article 19. You were talking about why taxpayers would finance a crazed litigation. Well, if it's an investor, for example. Croatian railways and I own real estate why would I be a lawless litigator in this process or if the investor is some big foreign corporation that's different? Is that what taxpayers are paying for? The furious litigation of me as the owner. At all, it is not clear, you in this way limit and bear the costs of the property owners practically pressure them to accept any price offered to them. And I don't think that's fair and that it doesn't even comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And as for the cost of the extradition procedure, I asked you to explain a little better what parts of the costs as you stated in the legislative proposal. You didn't characterise them as material costs or anything else. Finally, the state must have an interest in attracting investment and yes, so these costs are really not clear in this House what they are. Because all costs were practically borne by an investor under the existing legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79047	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79048	So he didn't carry an investor because it's precisely this material where we have to step up at some request, the law. It's from, if you want to get equipment to rent space to some other things we don't always have to have because somewhere, it takes 10 people temporarily 6 months to get rid of a project. And I don't see why they shouldn't be flexible here. We've built the same solution for, say, rebuilding land books, and we have the same solution in some other laws. So I don't see anything controversial through it. Everyone should know that there can't be wages, because you probably know that the law has decided that the salaries can't be co-financed, so the salaries aren't controversial, and the other all comes to mind as the cost of the paper, to the postage if you want to, to the presentation on the advertising board. Yeah, why don't the investor handle it. Because in that space, we need them especially because he needs them. Yeah, that's it. But if necessary we will specify at least by the legal structure of Croatia we should all know that this salary cannot be, but if it is not clear we will. ... Well, I don't know what else, but good. [[You can't hear it.]] As far as this transfer is concerned, I said the procedure leads, it's under the Administrative Procedure Act, each party's own expense. [[Strebec: No colleagues from the bench.]] This is an administrative procedure and I don't see why it's such a problem, and it's not in any other administrative process. I really can't see. So that the artisaning that is important will be carried out by the investor, with all some reasonable costs being borne by him, and there is an Office of the State Administration which manages the procedure that is required to help the ignorant party to protect its interest. Well, I think we're going with the thesis all the time to run the process by an investor. So don't run the investor procedure, the procedure is run by the state. Well, then the state must protect its citizen. If we take that away, so watch, then we're all going to go give it to some lawyer and protect him. Any conduct of the state if we bring it to an extreme, but it just can't work like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79049	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79050	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, when I listen to you here today, so a few months ago I'm listening to your colleagues from the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Civil Engineering in the last month or a month or a half, the Vice President of the First Vice President of the Government, then I'm no longer clear. So, on the one hand, the investment commissioners cost us nothing, and they cost us nothing, and at the same time make sure, Mr. Minister, what you just said in 15 or a month's time that someone will declare you a parafiscal intrusion as they say in Croatia. So you impose a new cost on investors. Is investment in Croatia a prerequisite for the growth of gross domestic product, a prerequisite for a new job, a prerequisite for higher tax charges without an increase in taxes, so should be. Is the function of the state administration at the service of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. If we define it that way, then these provisions of your law don't make any sense. If we're still complicating it with what your government colleagues here in this House of Commons have been saying to me, it's really not clear to me anymore. Because if someone says we're going to appoint an investment commissioner to literally take the investor's hand, take him from office to office, and then there's going to be a case that needs to be authorized, and then we tell that investor, and now you're going to pay for it. What message are you sending with that? Is this couple of thousand or hundreds of thousands of kuna worth of the bad that Croatia will gain with it, and be sure that someone will stick it to you. Today investors can go wherever they want. You have as much money on the world market as you want today. Is it in our best interest to attract investors or is it in our best interest to send them away with some small details? In my opinion, if there are civil servants who are doing some work so let the job be done and prepare the ground for the investor to come with his money, open new jobs and pay taxes to the Croatian state tomorrow. And he's gonna pay that expense multiple. If that's how you think, then you think positively, but if you don't introduce a new parafiscal imposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79051	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79052	So when this law was passed, there was a public debate, and we consulted many, including investors. No one had a problem with this provision, absolutely no one. That's what it's all about. Secondly, you know very well that it's in predicting the budget, so you should know that we have certain functions foreseen over the years. And now you're showing up in a small state administration office one big project. You're gonna tell the investor to wait until we rebalance or I don't know what. Yeah, that's why things aren't working out for us, because we're completely inflexible, because when we have to do something, then we say wait, we have one man, he'll do it when he gets here. And with this, we give the possibility that, we need a temporary pull, so we're gonna pull. I'm sorry, I'm not finished. [[But you can't do this if you don't have...]] I'm not finished. [[You had a replica, and now listen to the answer.]] So that's what gives flexibility. It's going to be a thing, somewhere it won't be necessary. It will not be conditioned anywhere. But you have specifics. So take the renovation of the land books. You know how much when local self-government because it's in the interest to contribute as fast as possible. That's awesome. Why? Because yes. At the state level, sometimes we don't have the money to finance it. So we want to let that stand, or we're going to give the local self-government that wants to participate. So, I repeat, the thing is flexibility. As far as we're concerned, I'm saying we talked to investors. No one put that problem so I can't see, I really don't see the problem in this one. In fact, I think we'll work this out faster. And the point is speed. Because if we continue to treat everything easily, we'll get there, it goes in turn, you're okay, you'll come in two years in a row, etc. We're not moving anywhere. And that happens to us too often.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79053	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79054	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you said it was a administrative procedure. In the administrative procedure, the costs shall be borne by that party which has initiated the procedure. The administrative procedure law, see Article 161(2), in proceedings initiated at the request of the party or administrative matters in which two parties or more are involved with the opposite interests of the costs of the proceedings, shall be borne by the party at the request of the proceedings. So there's a clear situation and there's no reason for the costs to be shared now on the person who's opposed, who's the opposite, who has the opposite view of it. So that's Article 161. The law on administrative procedure. The second thing you're saying again in article 46, it's clear to me that you want to protect the state if it wants to build a water line, if it wants to build roads, etc., which is good intention, excellent. However, there are now strategic investments in the interest of private individuals in the same basket, which is what this is about. Because you say taking into account the useful properties of the property she had before the change of purpose. So a private investor can also change the purpose and then say, you should consider the property property before the change of purpose. So that should make a distinction. Let's agree on what's of state interest, which is of public interest, which is generally good and what strategic investments are private where the obvious change of purpose, where this article will be used to reduce the actual value of real estate. That's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79055	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79056	Thank you very much. I have already indicated that we will consider this and certainly it is not in our interest to open the plea right through speculation about private. It means that on one side it's closed and on the other side it's open. So that's one of the things we're going to consider. That's why it's a public debate to hear right now and see what we can do, which we can't. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79057	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79058	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said the market value of the property would be an expropriation fee. It sounds so simple, but it's the most problematic category of this bill. The prerequisite to discuss the market price is the exchange of goods and services. In most markets, there is no exchange at all, let alone a market balance and a balanced price which is the only one that is real and does not exist. And then what happens? It's easy in those clear situations where apartments are sold, houses are sold next to each other, but when you say we build a school, we'll build a school in a place where there was no real estate traffic at all, one of the owners will own himself. After the school is built, the owner will be paid for 5 but the owner who stayed as a neighbor is no longer the value of this property 5 but 105 after the school is built. But also when a field is passed, the agricultural land of roads is not the same value before the road is built when someone is expunged and taken away and there is no traffic there for years, and when the road passes and we build the road 50 times or 100 times the price of those who have not been authorized is higher. That's one big injustice, and that's what to think about. The market price is the most problematic, it cannot be determined by administrative means at all. Then it's not marketable. And in order to be marketable, there must be real estate traffic, and we have areas where there is no real estate traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79059	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79060	I fully agree with you, however, the market price is defined as such by the Constitution. Yes, it is indicated as marketable and that is why we are here for the first time indicating this unique assessment that will take more parameters and where we will try to introduce order exactly and in these cases that you mention. Because the fact is that we have a whole series of spaces that don't have a market price because there's no market, nothing's happening. But that's something that we can only do by introducing a single evaluation system that's provided for here by a special regulation, it can't be regulated by this law, because it refers to a whole series of procedures not just for expropriation. Unfortunately, that's one thing we haven't been able to solve in 20 years. So we have a definition of market value. You see yourself in practice that she can vary 10, 20 times in the same space, by a special regulation that we will bring into order. It is not in the law here because this special regulation goes much wider than the expropriation itself, but I agree, however, that is the constitutional definition and that is why we need to adapt to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79061	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79062	Thank you very much. Well, you've told the respected ministers that the change in land use from agricultural to construction if it's planned with a spatial plan that will be evaluated and the compensation will be paid as for construction. However, if this is about building a road that makes no sense, it will be paid as agricultural. I have a concrete example and a question for you. The town of Vodice plans to build a wastewater treatment plant. It's planned on the surface which is now agricultural land. In order to obtain a location permit, we had to put that particle in our space-plan documentation and use it to build a wastewater treatment plant. Of course, after obtaining the location permit, it is probably now considered a construction permit. My particular question is, will the assessment of this land be done by a construction craftsman or an appraiser for agricultural land because the price of the agricultural land of the town of Vodice or by construction?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79063	Answer, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79064	Thank you very much. So again one of the illogicalities of the present system because now it would be possible for one another. Therefore, this special regulation will establish an evaluation profession, i.e. a way of assessing which will then be unique. So there will be no such great deviations. Here, and I would point out one more thing, we've considered, so it's not the only criterion and given this particular change of purpose. And here it's logical to establish itself according to the one before you went to change your license, that's right. Because, it's becoming something else just because you're doing... If you give up what and is still what it is, it has no market value of building land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm glad there's one in that part, I said this, as far as these private ones are concerned, etc. We can talk, but that's it. So the special regulation will regulate how it will be evaluated, but that's exactly what I mean by this excellent example that you set, which we want to achieve by law, because none, logically, that it isn't, so no one can sell it for anything else, because it doesn't exist but as a agricultural one, there's something else just because the municipality's father builds a purifier, if the municipality says it doesn't have it, it's still agricultural. And now, as the structure has now said, the community has changed its purpose, and then a speculant comes to the owner says give it to me, sell it to me, it's still agricultural, this one sells it to him, and even better someone who knew that the municipality might change it before it's changed, the poor man sells it, and then someone says, uh, it's now a building place, because it's a purgatory, and I won't be ten, but I want a thousand or five thousand. And it happens to us all the time, so you have examples all around you. So that's what we want to avoid with this. This is exactly a good example of the application of this paragraph. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79065	Your colleague Grubisic, did you give up or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79066	No, I never give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79067	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79068	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Is that the time has moved and that the replicators before me have actually exhausted my subject which I wanted the minister to ask, but I will still find certain. In fact, you were talking about the fact that abuse is actually this instrument of expropriation and that many in this segment are precisely in this segment to say purchases of land at minimum prices from private owners came into possession of real estate where through intelligence services they say... they knew in advance or received information from certain sources where certain infrastructures would go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like what? There is talk of corridors, pardons about corridor 5c and some people who bought the land around Slavonics, is there even talk about Pelješko bridge and where the knife of the Pelješko bridge should come to the mainland, excuse Pelješac peninsula that there are people who have bought it before, but I wouldn't have it as a matter of someone else. Thus, such things should be prevented and prevented in any case. What I am here in this article 38, I am not going to say is that it bothers me, but I am interested in, the noun of the obsolescence, as far as the obsolescence is concerned, and what is the obsessing and definition in the legal sense, therefore, by guilt or hanging on who is carrying the costs, which is the first cost of the proceedings. What's an obstetrics and how long does that obstetrics extend? And secondly, when you spoke about investment commissioners, it is very interesting that the definition of those who should go to the ministry, the foreign minister leads the investor's hand to all possible institutions, which means that we actually don't need those institutions if the Commissioner is going to do it all. What makes so many employees by these state institutions if the commissioner does it all in 15 days, what did they do, what would they do or what people have done so far without commissioners?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79069	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79070	Thank you very much. So, I wasn't talking about the commissioners, so I'm not going to answer, but as far as acting out is concerned, he's basically defined as the expense you don't really need to realize his right, and you're asking for, say, a delay in some hearing for no real reason, then the parties leave, they have a real cost to pay, and you're asking for it for no real reason. So this is determined in practice, I can't tell you specifically, but that's, what you don't need as a real expense, as a real action in the process, and you insist on it and implement it, so that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79071	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79072	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, Honorable fellow MPs and MPs before joining the exhibition I would like to thank Croatia for showing solidarity for the people who have had a flood these days. Here I am a little tired, this is the sixth day we're fighting the verse, the situation is quite difficult, something has managed to defend itself, something isn't. Here's the sixth day still coming, even though there's some indication that it's going to stop. This way would also ask people of goodwill who send help to the County, primarily the County, because there's a Red Cross, to call a little Red Cross to coordinate a little bit if we have too much urge to help. Now it's leaking and later when it's needed, maybe it'll just stop. So you'd ask, here's the way to this pay phone and the public to call the Red Cross in the County and to get a little bit in tune and to sort of take this help longer, it's going to take. Before us is the final proposal of the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation, the legislator of the law in the light of the same and begins to quote Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says: "The integrity of ownership is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia." to then quote Articles 48 and 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which the right of ownership is guaranteed by the Constitution, but the possibility of the general good being taken away or limited to the compensation of market value if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. With this bill, we believe that constitutional protection of ownership is being extended, so other than that a new criterion of untouchableness is added, and why untouchability, I will state in this exhibit a little later. Furthermore, the legislator, as a reason for the amendment to the current Law on Exclusion, cited both the need to be granted... and market freedom, again calling for Article 49. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the need for the urgent launch of the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia as the main driver of growth and development of the Croatian economy and the creation of preconditions for increasing investment in the Croatian economy and improving the conditions for managing goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, all the above is what good this law should be in theory, but the provisions of the law itself are contrary to the above... to the objectives of the legislator. You could even say that... the law is contrary to the reasoning of the same. Given the short notice of time, I'm only going to make some remarks about the law. So I will start from the very beginning, which is to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia, Article 13 of the Law, which stipulates that the decision to build a building or perform works in the interests of the Republic of Croatia shall be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the beneficiaries of the delegation. It is considered that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is established if the special law stipulates that the construction or execution of works is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and the decision to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia... cases of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the preliminary opinion of the Committee of the Croatian Parliament, is to promote the effective use and arrangement of space and committees in which the delineation and improvement of economic life is in part. Furthermore, Article 14 is prescribed what all the proposal must contain and for the sake of unnecessary repetition of the legal text, I will say that it is 6 points which must contain the proposal. And Article 15 states that, with a proposal to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the opinion of the municipal or city council and the county assembly, or the city hall of Zagreb, in which the area is intended to be built or carried out, must be submitted. It can be concluded from the initiative to the decision on the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, if it is not the interest of the Republic of Croatia... to adopt, with a proposal to contain 6 items, the opinion of the municipal, or city council, then the County Assembly, the opinion of the Croatian Parliament, after which the decision should be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So you can figure out for yourself how much time and effort it will take just to prove that a certain building or construction is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia by not ignoring and the fact that all of this needs to be achieved and the rightful location permit which is once again a separate administrative procedure. If and when a decision on the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia is successful, it shall be moved to the second stage, which is the procedure with the prepared actions for the purpose of expropriation. Such a decision shall be taken by the competent authority, which may be declared by the appeal decided by the ministries. Unfortunately, we are aware of the facts relating to the speed of work of the state administration, which is covered by a large number of different necessary and unnecessary jobs, and you can figure out for yourself how long it will take to come up with a decision on the proposal for expropriation. What is very important in this final draft of the law is Article 19 relating to the co-financing of the work of the authorities responsible for the implementation of the empowerment procedure. What is provided for in this article? Therefore, it is explicitly provided that one party in the procedure is to finance, pay... the bodies, so the head of the procedure, such as. Judges in a litigation procedure which provides a solution to the exemption and determination of compensation. Of course, that manager of the procedure financed by the payee of the exemption will not confer an exemption in favour of the owner, but rather in favour of the beneficiary of the authorisation, i.e. at the expense of the owner. It would actually be the same situation if, for example, an insurance company shall pay for the work of judges in a litigation procedure in which the insurance company would automatically be a privileged party because it certainly does not pay the judges for its damage. I therefore propose that the provision of Article 19 of the final draft law simply must not survive because of its immorality and anti-constitutionality because... and encourages corruptive action, so it should be deleted unconditionally. For a short period of time, I will skip... the work for exorcism and look back at Articles 25, 26 and 27 of the law. Article 25 is prescribed to provide evidence of the state and value of the property and is determined in which way the value of the property will be determined while Article 26 is prescribed that, in order to ensure proof of the state and value of the property, the user of the property must be granted a valid... permit, and then the ministry, or the competent authority, will determine the oral hearing in order to determine the skill or assessment without delay, but no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of a specific request for the provision of evidence of the state and value of the property. It is also specified that if the real estate intermediary and the user of the authority in the oral debate do not agree... the experts and the evaluators, the ministry and the competent authority in the same debate will only determine the expert. Furthermore, Articles 29 and 30 are also prescribed the contents of the documents and documents to be submitted with the exemption. It should be noted that 5 items must be indicated in addition to the extradition proposal, and a proposal for extradition must provide 4 evidence, finds, opinion, power-of-the-art location permit, a plotting laboratory, if not an integral part of the location permit, and it is also specified that the proof must be attached to the fact that a contractual solution to the property-holder is attempted, and in the case of a large number of real estate owners and multiple property-holders, the applicant is obliged to provide evidence of the publication of the property owner's offer which must then be published in the daily press or radio or television or similar. After all these advances that should be... a solution, the delegation shall finally be brought by the Ministry, i.e. the competent authority, and against that solution... the party shall again have the right to appeal and the beneficiary of the execution shall acquire the right to own an authorised property given the power of the decision to be granted. From the above, it is clear to conclude that it is an extremely complex procedure because, in addition to a series of obstacles to this law, it is also necessary to add to the disorderly state in land books and cadastrian operatives. Why do I say that? It is, inter alia, regulated that the decision to initiate the procedure and the decision to grant the property owners, which is in itself normal. But it's not normal in a society where land books and catastrian operatives are not entirely accurate and are out of sync. Well, as an example of one real situation, I would like to cite a case of a municipal infrastructure facility that is in the general interest and as such in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and it was found immediately in the beginning that land books as property owners were led by three of which one of them died, and not followed by a desert procedure, and the other two were in Australia or BiH at unknown addresses. Therefore, first and foremost, a desert debate should be carried out and a decision should be taken on the succession, and then submitted to the parties a proposal for extradition. Only the collection of evidence of that other law of prescribed material requires too much time, and money and patience. In particular, it is a matter of revoking the rightful expropriation solution, which gives the right to the previous owner to seek the annulment of the rightful exemption within certain deadlines and subject to certain conditions. That member of the law and the law are determined for sure to lead to a large number of court proceedings after the delegation procedure has been carried out. And given the fact that from the launch of a project in the Republic of Croatia to its realization in any case, it takes several years, and very often for ten years. Chapter 6 of the same Act lays down the way in which the real estate compensation will be determined, and Articles 46 to 56 of the Rules of Procedure are laid down and the compensation and the removal of the mortgage of services and other real rights. All this again extends the time of the extradition procedure because all these decisions are delivered to the competent services, and the decisions of those services are subject to appeal. Only one part of the objection to the proposed text of the law has been made worse, since all comments would take too long, for example, to be cited. Article 38. costs of the procedure, 46 fees for the fully awarded real estate, etc. So what I said at the outset is that the proposed law represents an impossible mission to try out. Confirmed by the observations made and certainly such a proposed law will certainly not lead to the objective that the legislator had when he proposed such a law or facilitating investors to build buildings or perform works in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary to this proposal, the law will prevent any investment in the Republic of Croatia over real estate owned by natural or legal persons, and in particular I would point out that such a proposal for a law at the expense of one of the rights laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia raises a significant question to other rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and above all that rightholders and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79073	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79074	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your colleague, Milicevic, has been troubled among other things and the compensation procedure for the expropriated property, so I would continue on what you said and, in part, refer to the minister's position. Therefore, the presumption of the procedure for determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the assumption of the extradition procedure is a powerful local authorisation. The rightful location permit implies that the space in which the expropriation is carried out has been adopted and a spatial plan adopted and that there is no spatial plan we could not bring to the conclusion of the location permit, which means further that it is a building plot. And the building land is the land that was built, arranged or spatially designed for building buildings or editing the surface of public purpose. Now it's not clear to me that I have to tell Mr. Milicevic how does the Government of this law mean by Article 46(3) that the owner of the land will pay the market value according to the purpose of the property that was before the execution? And why would she just do that when it comes to roads and not when it comes to factories, schools, residential buildings, airports or golf courses? What criteria will be taken by the Government or the Ministry of Justice when there is a spatial plan which accurately determines the purpose of my property that I was agricultural to the adoption of the plan, but at the moment when the plan came into force then it is a building plot because that would not have been the case with a powerful location and could not have been accessed at all by the extradition procedure? So, Mr. Minister, I don't think we've solved this thing to the end today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79075	Thank you very much. Don't be a minister because you're replicating your colleagues. Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. My colleague, I'm sorry, the minister asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79076	Thank you very much. So we're going around a little bit right now. On the one hand, from what I understand, the fundamental objection of the law is that everything goes slowly, and I think we're taking someone's property away. If you think it should be arranged so that someone makes a decree and takes it, that and that, it'll be quick. But it will be a story unconstitutional. So here we have installed a whole series of protective measures for the owners, and so it must be, the extradition is exceptional. I can't come to Croatia and say we want the whole country to rule and we want you to do it in two days so we can build it because we're taking away someone's property and we can't insist on it, I can't accept it as a minister of justice. Therefore, this requirement to move from the law all these safeguards that are put into the protection of the interests of the owner whose property is still being taken away, we cannot agree to that. I think we've set this balance. This is where we keep going around the same thing all the time. You don't read the final part of the sentence all the time means for exorcism. So, to your question as we had the Guide question and a good example, yes, if the spatial plan was changed to build a purifier then it would be determined according to the one before that. But if it's changed in general to be construction, then it's a construction business and normally it's going to be built-in fortification. So there's, there's these last two words or what, three in the item that changes things. And now I would, too, if we were talking, if they were such big remarks about it, so let's define what the problem is. Are we gonna put that away? But then we know what we are, then we're back to speculation. Then she'll be in Vodice, you'll pay for it, shall we return it? We can if that's your suggestion, we can talk about it, but let's define it. If that is the proposal to move paragraph 3, we can discuss it. But we're here all the time, we'd move it a little bit, we wouldn't move it a bit. So we don't read the last three words and then we attack the whole item because I don't know it bad, okay. We can talk, but then let's know what that means. We're going back to the existing one, we're going back to that Vodice is going to pay the market price of something that's just a purifier, but he's going to pay what, 20 times more and not only Vodice, but every one. And every road when it's built, we can go back to it but then define it as a suggestion. Because I don't really know what the real proposal is right now. Shall we wipe that out? I think we're talking about getting separated in public and in private and we said we'd consider it if it was. But if that's the suggestion. But if we want to move that whole item we can talk about, let's put it as a suggestion. But I repeat, let's know what he means, and let's know who we please, we prefer speculation, exclusively speculation. But let's say we will, put that away. Just like these speeds, let's say we will, speed it up, spend it all in two days, we're not interested in the owner's interest. We can, but let's define. Because I'm saying, the problem is here if I can tell you what would really matter to us in the ministry if we got a concrete proposal. Then we can only fix the law. But if on the one hand we have a move item 3 and on the other hand he's actually very good just distinguish him publicly and privately, so give what's one or the other? It can't be both. So, give us some kind of a concrete proposal, we'll consider whether we accept it or not, we'll explain why but to know where we're going. 'Cause now we're gonna go back and get it right, it's not gonna work. You were saying, I agree with what the Parliament brings, we were talking about spatial plans that we could put it on so that we could speed it up. And we've already said that, I told you we'd consider it. So that's a concrete suggestion why not? Yes, of course. And anyway, just so we know what we want. So, to us, if we're here, we lead, I'm in Parliament every time, at every debate to hear the debate and to fix the law in whatever it is that can be fixed, but let's make a concrete proposal. I don't really know what a concrete proposal is right now. We're moving item 3 or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79077	Thank you. And now we have replicas again, Davor Milicevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79078	Well, I'm sure the minister has very good intentions because the committees we're working on are good cooperation and... However, here today from these all debates it is visible that this law that is new is generally mostly applied according to the old one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My luck or the accident that I've been working on these jobs because the jobs when you take something away from someone are not good anyway. But I'll say just one example in County we have one subject of 25 years' exorcism. Also, this law should follow those laws that will help to get Croatia out of the economic crisis, and that should not often be asked about some petty interest, but rather the interest of all of us. That's where we agree. Suggestion... Because the proposals we make often are not accepted for this reason, these discussions should draw a concrete proposal to make it better for all of us in some way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The situation is very difficult, we all know that, and it would be good if we all passed a law that would bring us all good. But does anyone have a magic wand? There isn't. I say, I welcome the Minister's initiative but these are some examples that may be respected or will not be respected with some changes, I would probably be supported by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79079	Since the second reading is you have to propose amendments. Answer? No, I don't. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79080	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I said in the first replica this morning, and I will repeat that this law was to be discussed in parallel with the law on determining the value of real estate. That's what I said, and that was my first replica this morning, and now I'm standing by it. Because this is your best proof that we, that we, the debate on expropriation, have almost entirely reduced to the determination of market value and real estate assessment. But that's not why I picked up the line for you, is it? I'm asking a question. And I without this plot, without this property I remain it was intended for purification as it was in Vodice either intended for a hospital or a kindergarten or for some other purpose prescribed by a spatial plan. So from this law, I don't see when you and your ministry will determine whether we're going to make up for it as the owner of the land, the owner of the plot, and determine the market value as if it were building land or as if it were agricultural land? I don't see it from here to the end. You say in Article 46(3) that this value will be determined by keeping an eye on the purpose before the change before the change. And I didn't realize whether it would apply when it comes to the road, when it comes to the purifier, when it comes to some other purpose that can be extremely profitable. I therefore hold that such a provision is very questionable before we determine the procedure for assessing a particular property depending on its purpose after the realization of the spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79081	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79082	... Which is a cause of exorcism, so that's crucial. [[Specially enabled.]] So if it only changes in construction because it has become construction, normally it is and that the markets are worth building. But if the cause of exorcism was building a purifier then it changes, then it goes under the agricultural. Here's the difference, because there's the point that it becomes, that value only gets because that's where the community decided to build it. But not because it was put in total market traffic and because in that area it became construction and then you and I can come, buy, sell, then it has a real market value. But there won't be anyone there. This is where the municipality builds or does not build, and it is logical that it is determined according to the one before the municipality put it on. Here's the intensity. But that's why I'm saying it, but it's limited exclusively to the grounds of expropriation. So it's normal to change the spatial plan and you've now got something in construction, so it's normal to build it and to own it at that price. But if that's why it's a road purifier, then it's just that occasion and then it comes back before that change. ... What? [[Bačić, you can't hear.]] Vrtic, the hospital is also a cause of exorcism. ... Oh, yeah! ... [[Bačić, you can't hear.]] What? [[Bačić, you can't hear.]] The reason for the exorcism is here. [[Breeding Zgrebec: No colleague from...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79083	Sit down with the minister for five minutes and explain, and don't do this. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79084	Mr. Minister, you said you wanted to hear what the proposal was. Well, there's more suggestions, not just one. Here's a concrete one. It cannot be the same, nor may it be the same procedure of expropriation if the beneficiary of the delegation is a private person for the simplest reason, because it is compared, puts the general interest, interest of the Republic of Croatia and commercial activity in the same basket. It needs to be distanced clearly. You said we weren't for the protection of real estate owners. However, we are very much in favour of protecting the owner of the property, and most of all I am aware of in the second proposal that the cost cannot be borne by the owner of the property in the extradition process as we said just before that it is contrary to even the Law on Administrative Procedure. If anyone wants to know why an expropriation user doesn't bear the cost of expropriation? Why would someone from Australia have to come and pay for airline tickets, the cost here is no one, we can pay for the hotel where they'll spend more nights to get someone to come and say it's not yours anymore, and it's kind of in order for someone to build not a hospital, not a kindergarten, not a sewer, but maybe a mall. Because the government can declare that the shopping centre is also of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is said here that the government declares and performs works in the interest of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the beneficiaries of the extradition. This means that the government needs to be told what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is and then the government, not only knows what the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but it has a consultant in the private sector, will be told about it by the private sector. It's your interest, and it's not our interest. They just know what their interest is, not their general interest. The general interest is run by politics and government, not the private sector. Because if it were the private sector then there wouldn't be a flood if he were taking care of the general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79085	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79086	So, here I would if I could appeal again if we quote legal provisions you're not now, before I quote to read the whole. Thus, as part of the provision of the Law on Administrative Procedure was read, it was not correct because it was all read. So I'm not going to read it now, but I need to read it all, so you'll see exactly what it says there. Secondly, whether it is a public interest to build a factory in an undeveloped municipality and hire 200 people. I think so. So what's the problem? But it's a commercial activity, it doesn't build a state. Because you would tell us, you're actually saying that if you're building a state that kind of thing then it's a public interest, if the private says it isn't. I don't think that's it, it's a public interest and yours and my and all people, I mean all of us because we're going to get into the budget something more, people are going to get a job. Therefore, it is not good to disclose such a private interest commercially when it contributes to the public. On one island, the employment of a hundred people is a miracle. If we need to rule out something for it, so why don't we get into the procedure that's there, in which segments are involved and the Parliament makes a decision that it's a public interest and that it goes into expropriation. You here predict that there is also a role of Parliament, because it is in our interest. And I think that this investor is welcome, that we need to help him, maybe somewhere more useful than getting through the road. Because someone has to go down the road, she gets a purpose when someone works and travels, etc. But yes now, so that's it. On the one hand we quote laws, let's quote them to the end, on the other hand the public interest doesn't have to be, he's hiring all of us too. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79087	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79088	Well, here, Mr. Minister, you asked me for concrete proposals, and to prevent speculation, I specifically suggest that the legal regulation of the establishment of the first purchase on road corridors in favour of the Republic of Croatia, and that Article 3 of Article 46, which is so much to be amended in such a way as to say that the fee is determined as the market value of the real estate that is subject to at the time of the adoption of a first-degree settlement or at the time of the conclusion of a settlement under this law, the level of the market value of the property that is subject to the time of the fee, i.e. at the time of the conclusion of the settlement. And that's a concrete suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79089	And then make it an amendment. Then it will be debated. [[Skare-Ozbolt raider: It's in shape.]] And now colleague Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79090	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. We've heard a lot of different ideas about this Act of Exclusion, a little bit of sometimes contradictory at least that's how it came to me from some clubs, some have advocated from the same clubs to strengthen the protection of those who are subject to extradition, and some from the same clubs have advocated to speed up simplification and procedures and even faster empowerment procedures. But what I'm actually being asked as a question in this law as well as in many others is actually a meaning and some state interest or interest at this point in such a law. So, whether the issue of expropriation or the expropriation process was, remains or will in the future be really the starting point of investment, of job creation and of GDP growth brakes in the Republic of Croatia. Who is where and when he defined that expropriation is a problem why GDP in Croatia is falling or why is GDP not growing in Croatia in recent years? Was expropriation a problem at the time of the greatest growth so-called. foreign investment, about the time of 2006 to 2008, and what were the investments then? It was more or less a real-estate business as they like to say. The largest number or largest share of these foreign investments were actually investments in shopping centres and sales of those goods and products that actually imported into Croatia, and here in many ways asphyxiated Croatian production and closed thousands and thousands of jobs and actually created a substrate on which we then swam into this recession where we have been swimming here for six years. We had the biggest strategic investment in the opening of the IKEA shopping centre last two years. Is he stuck around the exorcism? Well, he's not, he's curious about who's gonna pay for the work on some roads. It wasn't a problem of exorcism. The minister, however, somewhat incorrectly spoke about the problem of exorcising the opening of factories for 200 jobs. It would be good to hear an example of where the factory with 200 production jobs was stuck in Croatia because of the issue of extradition? In this year or in the previous year or year that preceded that previous year, not a shopping mall. So, let us not cultivate illusions and let us not dream about the problem of extortity holding us back, holding us back or holding us back in the future in the opening of production jobs in the Republic of Croatia. At least I don't think it was an obstacle or a problem or that it would be. When it comes to the notion of expropriation, here's a force of opportunity I've tried to put it this way I'd like to teach myself about international law on the issue of expropriation or expropriation where about the position is that, however the state turns into an execution procedure, there's only one party. Therefore, it is recommended that the state be party to the procedure. He can't be the bearer of the procedure. The court is in charge of proceedings, and the State, regardless of its interests, represents one party to the procedure. The other side is a private person or one whose property, land, houses and the like falls under that authority. In this context, I think that this law is relatively well, in fact, like the previous one ultimately defines these relations although some laws in Western European countries speak of the concept of public good, not the notion of State interest, because the interest of the state is actually the interest of one party in the process, and the concept of public good is the concept of the common interest that all those living in that country have. The concept of public good does not exist more or less in our legislation regarding this problem. Therefore, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the interest of one party, regardless of whether it is strategic investments, whether of a state character or of a private character, it is nevertheless the character of the Republic of Croatia, not as a set of its citizens, but as if the state authority or local authority of one party were in the process. Because let's not ignore the fact that we have a man on the other hand, a person who has his own private property. And we can't let that private property go lightly and actually say that there are a variety of interests, so we're just going to see that as quickly and as simplistic as possible so that because of the interest that we define as a state, we're actually going to put you in a position that you're left without your property. It was talked about the market value of real estate and I would agree with those who were saying that actually when it came to assessing the value of real estate it would really be good if we had a special law, not any regulation, not some sublegal act, but a law that would actually be here in the Croatian Parliament in some ordinary procedure and that would have much more power and meaning than some sublaw act. We had a dramatic one before, now practically a few weeks ago, the fact that two court experts defend two different estimates of one building in Sisak-Moslavina County in cameras. What was the difference in their assessment? Well, only in who paid for them. The one who paid them to say that it was worth 25, the man defended with a long experience of art the court expert defended the claim that real estate was worth 25. That expert who was paid to assess less he defended the thesis that this property was worth five times less. And none of them allegedly defended private interest, so both were somehow paid by different public institutions to carry out a real estate assessment. So, when it comes to investment or job creation, or the competitiveness of the Croatian economy to create new jobs, GDP growth I don't know and I didn't notice that anyone like some really basic problem highlighted the issue of expropriation. There has always been a more or less problem with legal uncertainty, a problem with high entry costs, a problem with high labour prices, a problem with global incompetence and a whole series of problems, but at least the problem with not being able to expropriate some kind of land. And of course there are various kinds of problems, when there are these situations, x,y municipalities and cities, and the state itself had various problems, and of course people overestimated some real estate, blackmailed that there were certain public works, that some sports halls were actually built more slowly, that some shopping centres were more difficult to build, but I didn't get the impression that this made a production property stop in the opening of jobs where there was really some added value in the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to market value, the fact is, if you're going to blow someone's house where they grew up, which has their own backyard, in the yard where they grew up, the garden where they planted their fruit trees, trees, and so on, so that there's a bypass of work. Of course, it will personally be worth more to him than its market value. And of course, on the other hand, that we had an innumerable number of examples of what the minister was talking about, mixing, or actually trading, so on. confidential information from people who bought real estate and then resell it later, why? Because they had that information. We even have an example of a minister in this government that's because of how much I've noticed and left the ministerial post. But what I didn't notice was that we had some more serious judgments about these things, although in the area of especially the Adriatic, Dalmatia, Istria was talked about and talked about thousands and dozens of such cases and examples, and it wasn't hard to notice in countless places that some people bought huge areas of real estate, that often they didn't know who they were buying for, because they were bought through law firms or through some intermediaries who were actually hiding the identity of whoever was buying it. And it's no lonely case at Mljet, such examples were really much along the entire Adriatic coast from top to bottom. We also had an example of Krashograda where those who led Nadan Vidosevic bought a lot of land, now they only give the land to get rid of it and somehow make it easier, I guess, the burden of this torment. So, why did people buy? Well, I guess they had some kind of business interest. However, to return to Article 38 of this debate, many of them have been influenced by certain stakeholders. And when it comes to Article 38 of the HDSSB Club's position is to support Article 38, and we do not think that it should be us here in the Croatian Parliament who will represent the interests of certain lobbyist groups who, of course, are in the interest of this article not being as it is today. This is about Article 38. As regards Article 46, this is already a fact, what the minister said, and the fact is, for example, that German legislation dealing with issues of expropriation is a slightly different definition of the problem of the value of the property that is being managed and that we would agree to try to make a difference in the assessment between what will be used for public good and what will be used after the extradition for a private investment and some private investor, regardless of the state, the Republic of Croatia as a party to this procedure, whether strategically interest or not. Therefore, we also think that we should try to make a distinction, if there is time possibly in the third reading, or if the minister does make a proposal himself, which he himself will accept much earlier, than he will accept our amendment if we give it on behalf of the HDSB Representatives Club, given that so far we have very rarely met with the fact that the representatives of the proposings in the term of office of this Government have accepted our amendments. And in the end, this expropriation law isn't going to change much. One more thing, when it comes to compensation, our legislation also foresees a fair exchange with other real estate in the process. We noticed that in most legislation, however, the cash compensation is primary, is not the primary fair fee of some real estate, and he also knew from the practice that no one generally accepts this fee, and then we come again in the next step to the monetary amount of the property that is subject to the exemption. Therefore, we do not see exactly why we as legislators are one of the rarest ones, going real estate for real estate and then compensation. It's important that the compensation is actually fair, fair, that it's proportionate to the damage that's been done to whoever it's being taken away and whether it's cashed or in some other real estate. So we don't actually see any more significant reason why we go first with some real estate and then with cash compensation. We think that it should only be defined, that it could be simply defined to be fair, as it has, adequately and effectively implemented, and more or less these are guidelines found in most of the laws dealing with the problem of empowerment in EU Member States. Here, these are our suggestions and thoughts of the HDSSB club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79091	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79092	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, mostly, finds it difficult to agree with you, you ask two questions that I think and the law gives an answer even though you elaborate later on. And two fundamental questions that really are fundamental questions. Is this law going to be a brake, and on the other hand, don't you need that speed because you yourself have listened to the minister, and will the law be speed in some way and hasty? Well, I think that's exactly the law that gives one balance, and I agree with you that we don't need investors like that to come to us. Here's an example, or they want to come, one example, now it already has 2,000 and I don't know which, 6, 7, when a German struggled to have the Finnish giant Nokia come and install it in Bohun in northern Pojnje in..., gave free land, built infrastructure and at their expense, paid 60 million euros at Nokia's expense. 2300 workers were employed, they worked only for a while, the factory said they were no longer paid off even though they were doing positive business, but not to their puzzling desire for exploitation and one-off profits, so they continued their journey towards Bulgaria. So, just like this, quickly, not hasty to know the norms, so let's see, we don't need every investor who comes and devastates and leaves tomorrow, but the one who really thinks about working and earning, the same thing that the workers think. However, the set of circumstances, the unfortunate circumstances that covered the world is talking about us as Croatia, a small country, but the EU member, which we have something to say, will talk about these common problems together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79093	Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79094	We agree on investors, but you can see how we will recognize him, you can see that the Germans have been wronged, and we will not, that these predators who fled to Bulgaria have deceived them, but it may happen that they also come from Bulgaria to Croatia. Unfortunately, we have barriers, but we have other barriers, and this exorcism is one really minimal step, but we see through this debate as much as some mini steps are difficult to go and how much really lobbying interests appear in every mini step that even this mini step, and this overall is a mini step that won't change more significantly in investment, how much lobistic interests it is that even every mini step tries to slow down. We met with such lobbying interests and in a whole series of other laws that were spinning in the Croatian Parliament and which some of the good initiatives that appeared were so melted in the final proposals of the law that it was actually more of a waste of the sense that we had been dealing with them for months.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79095	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79096	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurović, you spoke about article 38. In Article 38, paragraph 1 states that each party shall bear its own costs in the extradition procedure. So, in paragraph 2, that in the case of guilt or adjudication, and the Minister has already given his explanation, so when someone takes a lawyer, that lawyer charges every submission, every debate, every coming out, and I don't even know what kind of legal action, then I'm really in favour of being under paragraph 2, so I'm just about to bear my own expenses. And for item one, I'm not sure I should be able to handle it. You were talking about that every person when they're out, or every one, some of them if they're real estate in terms of the house, etc. in the matter, emotionally related to this facility, to this house, to this plot, to something that has meant something to him in life, so it's hard to say that that kind of law about how to carry out an assessment of the value of real estate, we don't have, we only have the notion of market value, which doesn't most likely include that emotional part. Here, in Slavonski Brod, a man sold his house to a hospital that had this gynaecological clinic, and then at the price he asked for not only the market value of the house to be paid, but also the market value of what the hospital due to the checks in that house that was the infirmary, she had, for the purpose of the infirmary, worked, the late gentleman so I wouldn't want any more, so he achieved beyond the market value of that property. And the institution, you've opened a very important topic about the institution of secret contracts that exist in the public notebooks, is the owner of one, and in fact...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79097	Thank you. Replication response, Dradan Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79098	Yes, look what happened in Croatia in these past few years with the stock market. Several billion euros in the market turned out with a whole series of suspicious transactions, a whole series. How much of this has been trading with privileged information? We've had as many examples as you want of the stock growing 5, 10, 15% a day, it's been blocked for a couple of days, and it's back on track. Anyway, in the end, this... he got high, he blew out, and he got out of most people who were naively hooked up in that balloon, hundreds of millions of euros not kuna, that no one was in this country in any way, and I don't know if we have any legislation that... I'm saying we don't even have regulators that regulate it that no one in any way has been sanctioned. We have examples of what happens in the U.S. when the value of a stock grows 5 or 10%, the whole... that happens. I mean, that kind of thing happened with real estate, and in that context, the expropriation was very current because it was often related to incredible growth, and now to the slight decline of the real estate market and to this real-estate balloon that has already been a lot of words and these past years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79099	And before a break, the minister once again asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79100	Thank you very much. I'm just thanking you for supporting the law. Just a few factographic corrections. So the IKEA was being expropriated, the second-degree procedure was with the ministry. An example of economic activity is to tell you Postira, so Sardine Postira where thanks to the exposure of about 200 people is employed. For example, you have an example of this purifier in Vodice where you also have no extradition not only to avoid jobs but directly affecting the tourist offer. So that's an example of why expropriation is important. You spoke of public interest, the public interest is defined by the Constitution. Was he supposed to be defined as you say? Maybe if it changes in the Constitution. We can change it in law, but as long as it's such a defined public interest, it's only possible. The market price agrees completely and we need to have a special regulation. We might be going ahead with this, but what's this about? Until that special regulation is passed, it will be the same as it is now, so no one will be damaged. As soon as it's legal, it's supposed to apply, so let's get on with it. It's purely factographic, but thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79101	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79102	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as assessed by the mental pain in the amount of money, mental pain in slander, insult, etc. So they judge judges with mental pain and then write in the form of a monetary amount. So is what my colleague Djurovic was saying about the emotional attachment of the party of a natural person to some real estate. We could actually talk about that when we talk about that market value rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79103	I am setting a break until 15.00 hours, and the first in line will be colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79104	Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate. Well, here's what I'm going to say in the introduction that I certainly support this final proposal for a law of exorcism. What I particularly like, and that is that a very broad debate has been held about this institute, regardless of what we had and what we have, of course, still have the existing Law on Exclusion. Of course, the law was in the first reading, and now we have a final proposal, so we could make absolutely a lot of remarks, and from the very reasons set out in this final text of the law, we can see that a lot of objections is accepted. In any case, the exemption, we all agree, and the debate has also shown, is an extremely complex institute that penetrates one of the basic features of the market economy, the rule of law, the right which is double protected by both the Constitution and the law. But if it were not possible in certain exceptional cases to enter into that basic right, it would become impossible to carry out certain necessary works that are of general social interest. In many cases it would be impossible to carry out general useful work without this institute, and I believe that none of us are slow. He is extremely important in any public government's action. The public government uses it as a powerful tool to solve problems when the private owner deliberately or unwittingly prevents the further work of public services and that is what I believe we must keep in mind. The conflict of public and private interest has long been present and it is clear that empowerment is often the only institution by which public authorities can carry out certain general useful works and against the will of individuals, therefore it is also a conflict of public and private. Finally, there's no need, but that's what I've been invited to do, and the debate on this final bill so far, the Roman Law knew that institute, and the debates so far, especially before the end, had asked me a question before the break, if I could answer the line and ask if you'd like to put an end to the authority institute because the debate was headed in a direction that was really hard to understand. What I would further like to point out is that the relationship between the owners of freedom and general interests always and again, of course, needs to be sought for optimal solutions and optimal satisfaction of both private and general interest. And therefore, in any case, the exemption should only be in exceptional cases, as we have heard and in the light of the final bill itself. Today, expropriation is a regular procedure, but certainly one of the most complex, I am of the opinion that the exemption should only be used as an exceptional intervention of the state and this very complex administrative procedure must be implemented with respect to the highest procedural standards. I support this bill because it is a fundamental message that pushes participants to an agreement, an incentive for property law to be resolved by an agreement on the one hand, and on the other hand to open an important framework for investment. This final bill introduces a series of newspapers, what I certainly want from newspapers to point out it is the establishment of an authorised property register with all relevant data. Transparency is extremely important in any segment of public government enforcement, especially in the case of the reconciliation of public and private and the reduction of room for any manipulative action. The more transparent we are, the smaller that maneuvering space is. It then introduces an obligation for users to publish real estate data on which buildings with height and form of compensation will be built. It shall seek to protect the interests of the owner in such a way as to be represented by authorised and qualified persons. A unique methodology for establishing the value of real estate is provided. There have been a lot of words here in the debate on the determination of value, how it will be determined and when it will be determined that it is agricultural or building. The very fact that this part will resolve a special regulation, I appeal that in this special regulation, it is particularly important to make sure that the criteria are clear so that we have as little space for different interpretations as something is and when something remains agricultural and at which point it enters construction. I'll say my opinion. No matter what land is agricultural, the moment it gets a location permit according to the spatial plan, it can no longer be agricultural because the location permit is one of the building documents and roads regardless of what is not on the market in terms of sales, it is a building facility. We don't have to agree on that, I said I should say my opinion in a way that we can think about. And this location permit isn't for plowing, it's for building. In determining the fee, account shall be taken of the useful value which I also consider to be good, further acceleration of the procedure in strategic projects by prescribing the single-degree extradition procedure, which is also good because legal protection, as you yourself have said, is not hampered by administrative dispute, it will always be able to be available and what is good is a unique arrangement of the institution of entry into possession in order to avoid the current practice of the different arrangements of the institute. I believe that taking into account the useful value of real estate, among other things, the preconditions for disabling resellers are met. In practice, we have witnessed many times the purchase of certain property for privileged information that was even at the moment until the spatial plan was changed or adopted so that, of course, later on in the extradition process, it is well earned. I believe we're all in our midst witnessing exactly that kind of case. What I said at the very beginning, and I will now particularly re-absorb that, as I saw in the final proposal, was intervened in 26 of the 64 articles, which in itself shows that respecting a series of remarks and suggestions between the two readings is certainly good, shows that the observations are carefully considered and shows first of all the intention to make better decisions in order to reconcile privately and publicly. Given that I consider such legal solutions to be a step forward in matters of relations between the owners of freedom and of general interest, and that such legal solutions are in an optimal way satisfying the private and general interest and in any case installing mechanisms for mixing at least to a minimum, I will support the final draft of the law. And what I'd say about the end, what certainly stands for two facts, and that's the first thing that we're all together for as long as we're dissatisfied with so far's exorcisms, thinking that they're taking too long. This final bill certainly provides mechanisms to speed up the process. And secondly, I very much support that is this transparency that reduces the possibility of all those who have so conditionally said the unholy actions that have been happening so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79106	Thank you. Next up for the debate, Joseph Kregar. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79107	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I don't think I'm going to have a lot of replicas on display, but that's why I'm going to start and speak in that tone to avoid replicas and avoid like the Ministry of this law has led to a level where truth is repeated but it's shown that argument and those who are against it is understood. That's what I'm saying because I've got a dozen different remarks that should have served to improve the law. Most of them are not accepted regardless of the numerous changes but they actually come down to just a few points we've heard here today, I'd almost say with an argument made by a law chamber, a arraignment attorney, individual contributions, etc. That's why I think you should say that these remarks are not quite interestingly neutral. They show great interest in people and also professions for certain practices that have existed so far. But what makes this amendment to the law, because some people say, well, you see, we've done so much under the existing law, is actually the result of the fact and experience that some legal solutions didn't work. Whether the right ratio is found or not, the right formulations and solutions are not sure. I also have my thoughts and reserves that concern both the price and the cost that is shared and that we are actually hiring an investor, i.e. the issuer and its assets. Often this can be innate, and the unwanted consequences of this are highlighted. For now, however, it seems that we can only thank each other and say this was also considered in writing this law. And I hope this mood I'm talking about, understanding the argument will serve some future change. But I only answer with one specific thing. My neighbor and colleague here were talking about transparency. One of the really great things that will improve the whole system here is the introduction of a register. That's a good solution. Because in this way the public has insight into who buys, in what procedure, with which reasons or foundations of expropriation some real estate, are all real estate. However, one thing is lagging behind. The Minister normally does that... and that's.../The speaker went off and then turned it on./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[/Intruder: Microphone turn on your colleague Kregar. Thank you.]] For the record only, I think in the register that will be passed under the rule if we are to welcome full transparency, we would also have to quote the price. The arguments we've heard against are a reason to think. So will it not be seen how someone hastily got rich, and it will attract all possible assessors and extorts to get something out of that amount. This may be true but the important part is the fact that the rights of public control over these procedures, especially prices, can only be obtained if we know which properties are concerned and at which price the expropriation has been made. The name of the person is less important, but definitely the location and the particles are important, and the price should also stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79108	Thank you. Next is the debate Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79109	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the issue of expropriation, of course, there is always a clash between the two interests of the social or state as we wish, so by law, by a special decision of the Government, so that a particular facility is built and the private interest of the owner to retain ownership of the land, that is, to achieve, of course, the maximum price for his real estate. This law is trying to say I would place these two interests to the greatest extent possible in a kind of fair relationship, to the best possible balance. Today we must agree that it is absolute, I would say the national interest and priority of opening new jobs. Often, the opening of these places, jobs related to the possibility of investments in any infrastructure, or those which open those jobs for a longer period, are therefore the classic investments in the economy. And when the social interest of a particular investment is recognised by law and government then this law should be an instrument for that social interest to be realized. This law will say to a much greater extent that this social, state-interest recognised certain investments than has been made possible by the legal solution so far. This will firstly be achieved by these provisions which will therefore allow for an emergency entry into the ownership of the property that is subject to control. I think that this is a key positive change in this law and it establishes a good balance between social, state and private interests. So far, we know when an investment wanted to be realised has often had to wait years for the whole procedure to end because of complaints, difficulties, delays, and practice shows that in a number of cases, the first-degree decision on the exemption is essentially confirmed at the end of the procedure as well as adopted. The damage the social interest suffered in such cases was great, but to the damage were then these private owners who could simply get their money for their property long before. We can also often hear complaints about an unfavourable investment climate. I find that this law is an absolutely good tool that will facilitate and enable the investor to speed up, therefore realising the investment but not at the expense of the owner of the property that is being managed. This introduces much more, I would say, order in this problem, because it is far more precise and detailed as to what must now contain this proposal to determine the interests of the Republic of Croatia, which must be indicated in the proposal and which must be contributed. And when we talk about this necessity to carry out these procedures as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible. It should be said that they were already more urgent under the previous law, but perhaps even now we could go with some perhaps more precise deadlines, which may be because this is another reading of the topic of thinking for the future. For example, in Article 15, where a proposal to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia requires that the opinion of the municipal or urban, or county or city hall be submitted. When there is an interest in obstruction that may happen, if we literally interpret this, if that opinion is not possible, then the interest of the Republic of Croatia cannot be determined if I say so. In the event of a negative opinion, it can be determined, and in the absence of this opinion since it must be given along with this proposal, it may be interpreted as simply not possible without it. This is whether it could be resolved if it was given to a council or a congregation to give an opinion, and in the event of a failure to respect that time limit, it premises that a positive opinion has been given. Perhaps it would be a solution that could solve this potential problem. A general remark which would not only apply to this law but also to most of the laws di is prescribed for certain public-legislative proceedings would refer to the case in Article 48 of that Article in the case of a building that was built without an act on which it could be built, or contrary to that act. It therefore obliges the competent authority to act and, as a previous question, to address the issue of removal or proper treatment of the building. But we also don't have a certain deadline. I'm saying whether or not he could have put a deadline there, but in principle I think that should be done in all similar cases where a certain treatment is required. Personally, I think that in such cases, some binding deadlines should be given and prescribed that the unwarranted breach of that deadline must be subject to clear consequences, such as for the initiation of a disciplinary procedure for the purposes of serious violation of the official duty. And I say, again, I think that, in general, in our regulations where public-law enforcement obligations are established, binding deadlines should be put in place and that in order to break those deadlines should, and even explicitly, be prescribed, so if it is unwarranted to break deadlines by officials in public-legal bodies, it is found to be a serious violation of official duty. When we talk further about the introduction of order and provisions governing art, we should stress that this bill has made this matter much better than it has done so far. More precise parameters are being determined as they are and the opinion of the witches is being developed. Right here in this matter so far, there has been an extraordinary, extremely fertile soil for corruption, creating millions of damages. In fact, if you follow the extradition procedures a little closer, i.e. general procedures for buying and replacing land owned by the state and units of local and regional self-government, I would say very often, too often can be seen to exist, so I won't say reasonable doubt, but the basics of doubt would say that the prices of certain skills are simply too high. And there was a need for the introduction of order. Here I hope that the solutions proposed here will reduce the possibility of corruption and unreal and corrupting of real estate prices bought by the public sector from private people. I should also stress here that the procedures for the purchase of real estate and procedures have even been given too little attention by the state, social or public sector, I would say from the law enforcement authorities and the State Attorney's Office. When there was a hearing of the new state's attorney here in the House, he said that the employees of the State's Attorney's Office were following our debates, and here I hope that this appeal will also be heard that better and better quality procedures are being reviewed in which public authorities acquire real estate and in the procedures of exorcism. Especially where bigger amounts are involved. The extradition procedures are particularly appropriate, I would say, for the achievement of corruption because these are the procedures to say big fish that have real power can, with their real influence pressure or mobbing, squeeze those officers who work in the extradition procedures that are, say, proxies in the extradition procedures and force them to put their consent to, say, the unreal price reported by the expert. And in that case, he's a corrupt powerful man who's clean, his signature or his written trail is nowhere to be found, and if anything comes to anything, that little officer who gave his consent or his signature is guilty of guilt. Such cases, too, are later extremely difficult to prosecute and determine criminal responsibility. So here's what I'd say would be necessary in the first place better prevention. Here, I hope this... this will help, but I'd also like this problem to be further studied and some extra fuses introduced. In the first instance, I believe that in the procedures of these exemptions and in the procedures where the state or units of local or regional self-government buy, sell or change property should be firmly established by a list of experts who should undergo strict checks or even possibly testing. And in a number of cases, I should, in my opinion, also introduce a mandatory additional verification carried out by the State's Attorney's Office or any other competent authority. This requires additional complexity and costs, but I am convinced that stricter regulation of this problem would damage millions and millions lost in corruption. In terms of thinking about the cost-bearing process, I might have appealed here as one proposal to someone amongst the solutions to determine the flat-rate cost of the extradition procedures and, therefore, to be borne by the investor, but of course not to allow those costs to go to heaven as they have been the case so far. In conclusion, I would say that this bill represents a significant improvement in relation to the existing text, that it will speed up the procedures for expropriation on the one hand, but also protect the interests of the property owners that are being managed and should certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79110	Thank you. Branko Hrg, next up for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, expropriation has no alternative at all, so if you want to do some big project and something that's socially useful in principle without an expropriation model, it's an impossible mission. In any case, I had an opportunity to look back and look at what was going on, where all the problems arise when major infrastructure projects are being carried out and how difficult the extradition process can be and how much projects can be threatened in the extreme case. Here is the part of the road from Cugovec to Križevci and the railways of Dugo Selo-križevci all of this was happening there and the office and services that were coming were doing so in the Križevci. So I had a chance to hear it every day and see it. And, of course, hear and see the comments of the citizens who were in the extradition process. And it really happens in a variety of ways. On the one hand, you have a situation to offer one correct price, really okay, and that citizens accept it and say that at least I have more countries that should still be happy. You have those on the other hand who just say they're not happy with the price and you have those who say they don't want to sell it at all. And then you had situations to come across really diverse law offices that know probably where the road is going, see what's going on, come, visit those older and legally ignorant people that are being talked about here today and come as their legal protectors. Here's your process, here's your slow and whole project and program can stop and it can have inconspicuous consequences. As I prepare for this second reading of the law, I've been doing a little consulting with the people who are therefore working on these extradition programs, which are in progress, which are daily in this, and I'm actually going to read their thoughts on this bill. So, say the people who do this job he is, of course, on this side of the point of view of those who carry out the extradition procedure. So they say that this proposal was significantly improved compared to the one in the first reading, that the first one was extremely bad, expensive and demanded long-term treatment and that there was a certain improvement. They also say that it is good that the promoter himself has already found that some procedures are unnecessaryly burdened with administration, and this is bad for the investor but also for the executors. And it is also very important not to favour lawyers anymore because it is proposed that each party bear its own costs because if the user of the expropriation would bear all the costs, then it becomes possible for the other party to use it and needlessly lodge an appeal. They certainly used this in previous procedures and under existing law. Appeals are often made only to raise the amount of compensation because the amount of compensation is ultimately determined by the law offices according to the value of the dispute. the amount of the determined exemption fee increases and the level of compensation for the lawyer. That's the case we had and the one we met daily. However, in order to improve a few, it may simply mean suggestions. For example, Article 27 says that the competent authority will determine the oral debate to determine the art and the purpose is only to select the experts or assessors because paragraphs 2 and 3 is said anyway that if the party owner of the property and the user of the authorisation does not agree in the choice of the experts or do not come to the hearing, the competent authority will determine the expert and the time of the eyewitnesses. People say that, in fact, this is an unnecessary process and that it will likely waste a lot of time, at least 15 days per case, because it is necessary to send calls and a minimum of 8 days should be left to the parties to come to the debate, from the day they received calls and costs are high because the calls must be delivered to all owners, owners and the user of the empowerment and the returnees. In practice it's a large amount of administration, it's not a particularly big problem when it's done, for example. up to 10 particles, but there are few cases in the case of expropriation because, in practice, in terms of the economic situation, property is mostly managed for infrastructure projects, and then it is a large number of particles, e.g. for a share of over 500 particles proposed for expropriation. So this also raises the question of a large number of owners or owners, which means that if each of them can propose some other warlocks, geodetics, construction and agriculture it is possible that 10 different witches can be proposed on one track and the facility, and in practice there is a problem. It becomes expensive and unnecessary and it should certainly try to avoid it because the procedure will not be more quality, exactly the opposite. It is possible to determine such a way when a house or business space is ousted, but for expropriation due to the construction of infrastructure facilities, roads, railways, gas pipeline, power lines, water lines, etc., it is completely inappropriate, it will be lost for a long time. This article suggests that a certain change may be made, that it may be possible for the competent authority to designate persons and witches, to set the date of the eyewitnesses, to invite all parties, owners and owners to the same, plus the user of the empowerment and the necessary experts. In fact, most often more than 95% of the parties agree with the assessment and the person of the experts, so, so that's how it was in the past behaviour where it wasn't intended to go out with the authorities. Those who will have observations in the course of the proceedings may always seek re-intelligence and that is only a small number of those participating in the process. In any event, the proposed provision of Article 27 shall not benefit either the authorities or the applicant because two procedures are being carried out, all of which may be resolved by one procedure, by an eyewitness who will appoint the competent authority, by determining the person of the witch and by calling all parties to the eyewitness. In addition, Article 42 of that article provides for the appointment of an oral debate in the adoption of a decision on the possession of an authorised property by stating the obligation to hand over the authorised property owned by the beneficiary of the authorisation and the time limit for the transfer of the property. In practice, it will happen that the executor will not do so voluntarily and will have to go to the done solution, which means an eyewitness on the spot that requires all the time. Oral debate is an unnecessary waste of time because in practice nothing will be obtained. A much better way of handing over property before the power of the expropriation solution is the way it has been used so far to enter into the property after the decision on the expropriation for construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads. There is therefore a need to see again those projects that are infrastructure, which are of particular interest or perhaps some other projects that are of private interest, so which are in that second segment. Such a solution by the present part, as it now means, is faster and more effective, and the beneficiary of the exemption if he has paid the fee to the former owner within 10 days may enter into the property he needs for the construction and reconstruction and other purposes, and for which he has applied for an authorisation on the basis of such a proposal requiring oral public debate, this is possible. At best for 20 days, so double compared to the proposed way. Here's from what I've just said, it's obvious that there are no too many objections in the prince to the proposed text of this Act of Exclusion, with it really necessary to speed up the process so it doesn't really stand. And definitely expropriation can't do any damage to whoever owns the property. It must receive adequate compensation for this, but it cannot possibly happen that an individual can stop a program or project that is of exceptional importance to a wider community. And there's good to find one measure in which of course whoever wants to get more will always feel that he's got too little, and whoever has to pay him will always seem to have got too much, that he's given too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79112	Thank you, too. Next up for the Peja Grbin debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, basically, I'm going to pick up where the esteemed colleague Hrg left off, and that's, above all, that I'm going to concentrate on the provision of Article 40. The law on the exemption in that part relating to the procedure for granting and entering the property before the payment of the compensation, or before the procedure for determining the compensation has been completed. In my court, there may be a major change in the proposed text of the law between the first and second readings. It is a situation that almost everyone who has ever dealt with infrastructure building has met, which is a situation where one or more real estate owners refuse to sell, or refuse to access the extradition process, refuses to accept the fee and seek, and so we will say the same thing for their real estate. In such a situation so far, except in a few exceptional cases, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have made a decision to enter the property, there was a long, hard, complicated extradition procedure. I'm not saying this on the basis of some theoretical indicators, but I'm saying this as someone who in practice met with extradition and as a local self-government official, but also as a lawyer who represented the parties who, and I'm going to be honest here, were looking for bread over a cake. And then we did one, two, three, four articulations, the procedure to determine the fee would take two, three, three, and more years only in the first degree, and I'm going to point out only in the first degree and the decision to grant was not made. And what was going on in parallel with that? It happened that the sewerage, that the road, that the waterway, that the current or some other important infrastructure project was standing. In fact, how did that go? The application would be filed, after which the extradition procedure would take place, the procedure would take place, I'll say so, the tensions over the fee, then eventually after how many years I don't know how many years the solution would take, after which the appeal would take place, not rarely the second step would end the solution and return it to the retrial, etc., etc., before it would come to that only act of entry into... Now, this law changes that. And how does that change? In cases where we have the construction of public infrastructure, not hotels, not golf courses, I'm not talking about it, I'm only talking about publicly needed infrastructure, roads, railways, today dams or similar facilities. It may then enter into the property immediately at the beginning of the extradition procedure, subject to several conditions of course. First of all, there is a public interest, first of all there is no expropriation at all without it, but also that the user of the extradition has proved that he has secured compensation for the owner of the property, which means that when the procedure is completed, the owner will definitely receive compensation and not any other one, but a fair remuneration of the market value of his property as well as any other. But this owner will no longer be able to blackmail the user of the expropriation, or the person who builds the infrastructure. Why? Therefore, if it does not accept the offered price, the authority carrying out the procedure at the request of the beneficiaries of the exemption may decide to immediately enter into the property of the property. No more waiting, no more streets like Zagreb. We have a situation where we have a kidney one on the road because we're running an expropriation procedure for properties that are in between. We waited in Pula for years to build sewers because the extradition procedure did not end. That's not going to happen under this law anymore. The property will be able to enter immediately, but only if the funds for the owner's compensation are secured. Why am I talking about this and why am I talking about this so much? Because in my opinion, this is the most important change in this law compared to the state we've had so far. No more blackmail, but everyone will be protected. Only now the procedure will no longer be conducted in such a way that sometimes the user of the expropriation will have to agree to pay the property price 200, 300 euros in a price area of 20 or 30 euros, in order not to, for example. lost funds from European funds, but will be managed on the basis of real parameters and based on what specific land is really worth. In this context, only this change justifies the adoption and adoption of such a law, so I will stand here and say that this is a good law that should certainly be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79114	Thank you. Boro Grubisic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next, Franjo Lucic signed up. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the Act of Execution, so on several occasions we talked about him, both in that previous government, and now and in this one. But by looking at this law, and also by looking at those shortcomings in the previous law, I'm afraid we won't again with this law, so now we're going to solve all the issues that we're talking about right now. I'm saying this for the reason that here, for many years, I've been head of local self-government in Požega-Slavon County, more specifically in the town of Pleternica, and we've just met up with problems relating to just expropriation and those of certain capital investments within the units of local self-government. At the same time, a number of years ago I was also on the Supervisory Board and the Croatian Roads and the Highways, so when we built A1 then I also know that we had one special condition that was not the condition for other units of local regional self-government, which was just the process of rapid construction. The fast construction that was really necessary at the time because if we had waited as it is today and as we have a problem, I am sure that during that time period we would not have managed to build all those capital investments, especially when it comes to highways. Then there was a rule, so for the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, the question of road construction, the question of highway construction, we were bringing out certain property owners that I wasn't talking about those problems that were going on, especially down here in this hinterland, so Dalmatian, where far the properties are more expensive than they are about Slavonia, Baranja and us coming from the continental part. Not to mention those speculations and also those mayors and mayors who supported the achievement of the price as high as possible, etc., etc., but we had a unique case that we were able to capitalise on these rapid constructions, whether the owners of private, legal and that the road had been built uninterrupted and that we had also succeeded. What I want to say today, I would like that model to be today, and right here, it is said in Article 39(2), that when an estimate of a particular property is made, when an expropriation of a natural person is made, the law now says, money before, so when an ideal solution is made. What bothers me especially and would like to be installed inside, which is that after these actions, when we make an idea solution, when we come up with a building permit when we secure the money that we pay the man or the private person, they are mostly private persons and that we can not uninterruptedly enter the further actions of the works that we have foreseen in a specific place or on a specific route. Today, with all these changes, that is, with this new Law of Extortion, we get a new problem that will happen to us speaking from the point of view of the unit of local self-government and with this law again with various complaints, not to talk about the state administration, not to talk about the judiciary that is still very slow with us today and which does not work the way it should work. I advocate that when we make a real estate assessment, when we pay that we can carry on the work uninterruptedly. This person legal, physical or not knows what his name is, let him prove in his court proceedings that we are wrong, so if we need to make up for it through a higher price or through anything else that is essentially controversial, but let us continue the work we planned. If that's not the case with all these supplements that were made here compared to the old law, I'm afraid capital investments won't be going as fast as we predicted. I'm particularly concerned today we've heard a lot of thinking here, proposals like this and such, but we're witnessing that the Republic of Croatia is really because of a variety of problems, and I'd say first of all that we're really a complicated society with no foreign investors, we don't have an investor unlike our neighbouring countries that came out of the former ex-Yugoslavia. Therefore, the laws we write, the laws that we need to subdue to future investors, should certainly be adapted to every investor, so that no one at the same time is denied, that the rule of law works anyway, but to speed up, we speed up this situation because I am afraid that this law will not bring exactly what many investors want. We are witnessing that precisely in neighbouring countries if we can mention the saying Serbia, and investors who have invested there are boasting, or who will invest that they simply come to a building permit and on such exemptions come in a very short period of time. So I'd ask the respected ministers to try and see you too without damaging anyone at the same time how and how we rule out when we know how much this property costs to continue the work we started. Waiting for a complaint one, the other, the third, the fifth, the hearing, this is what we come into the position that this investment has to be delayed and that we simply can't do what we want in time. The other thing I'd like to say, and I've already mentioned the state administration and the processes we've been running so far are really too long. From the very beginning when we have to face this man or owner there when it comes to negotiating, talking, you know, these people think no matter what they own of the property that they can get money as much as they need, and they most of all feel that when they feel that the local self-government unit has a need for a certain space, then they don't know what they'd be looking for and usually they're prices that aren't acceptable because they're looking for what they need, and we just have to stick to the rules and those assessments that the judicial assessor assessed. I don't know, and you said yourself, suggest what, how, but those of you who are in it every day, and through this debate today where a few people really spoke well on purpose, this law will be good, but it will be good when we succeed at speed, when we get what units of local self-government need. So let's do everything we can not to pass this law just to bring it in, but to change it right now, and I felt today that you want to accept all the suggestions that are being made here today that in this law we don't bring it to a shortcut and try to change what's important. And once again, it's important that they just start the business going on, and whoever's ruling a judicial path proves he's right, but at the same time it doesn't interfere with the start-up investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79116	Thank you, too. And Goran Maric, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister with an associate. If any problem is seen only on one side, the problem will not be seen well. If not seen from all sides, not all aspects of a problem will be considered. When looking at the problem of exorcism, it must be known that it is necessary to approach the problem. It's an necessity without which society cannot survive. But in that necessity, we need to worry that no one is damaged and that there is no abuse. So far experience has shown that there have been cases where property owners have been severely damaged but where there have been cases where property owners actually went better than public interest. The most common thing that has happened in the extradition process is speculation. And if the legal solution is going to contribute to that, I'm not going to say it's less than it's going to be, then every legal solution should support it. If everything we've been saying here today I think that might be considered, I think there might be an optimal solution. They invented the Nobel Prize for Economics a long time ago, and they came up with it, and it was even funded by a special, or financed by a Swedish bank, the foundation is not funded. But if someone came up with it and invented the Nobel Speculation Award, I'm sure one of the Croats would get it. But exactly the responsibility of the team is greater to create a legal framework that will eliminate it. The national interest must be the highest possible interest, none of which must be greater. I'm worried that it doesn't differ when someone knows how to trip me against entrepreneurship, save God. The state should all undertake that entrepreneurship is the most desirable activity in this country. But you know what problems in society are solved by entrepreneurship and what solves politics and states. Yes, it concerns me that it does not differ which is a strategic interest, that it does not recognise the Government which is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in matters of entrepreneurship. I'm bothered by that job mantra, it's really gone into mantra. Not everyone's hiring a solution to the problem even though it seems odd at first sight. But if we want to solve the really long-term problem of the Croatian economy or reduce it then we must in some way prefer production activity. When it comes to production, however, the state has to pay everything to make it possible for someone to deal with production. And be the beneficiary of the expropriation and pay the fee and give it to whoever makes the factory where something will be produced. And you can't compare the factory, the production with the store. There's no way to compare the mall to the factory. I don't give a shit every time I go through Italy from Milan to Turin. Factory after factory, in Croatian neither, nor one. And the mall over the mall. And we have fewer employees at the store today than before those malls and everything under cover of employment. Imagine we freed the payment of the contribution to the shopping mall that closed. As in pre-warrant deals go to companies that have ended up in bankruptcy again, which paradox. In the professional literature, the exposure is done for the construction of roads, public goods, hospitals, railways, airports and the like. No expert literature can, no expropriation is foreseen for some shopping center. It may be in the newer literature and it will probably be installed. That's why it seems to me that a little bit in the eyes of the article 2 electronic communications objects. I don't know exactly what it's all about, but there's a lot to be done under there. Even telecommunications operators can be able to capitalise on this one broad definition and be of national and state interest. Where it is stated in Article 4 of the delegation, the beneficiary shall be entitled to use the real estate for the purpose of which the authorisation has been carried out. Minister, the question is, what if it doesn't? It is for the purposes of which the expropriation was carried out and after five years, two years in that place where the property was for one purpose something else comes up. We are witnessing this, we know on the first line to the sea how much or retirement homes have grown, turned into hotels or other re-uses have worked. So, I don't know how to ensure that such expropriation is annulled if abused. And this Article 4 seems to enable me, because it is said that the user will use the purpose for which the exemption has been executed. But you don't know, and what if it doesn't? And doubting the ingenuity of some of our own, I don't doubt that they already know in advance that it might not be what it's about, at least in some cases, not in general. I was already talking about the concept of market price, how the market price that is formed on the market is one continuous exchange of goods and very often this exchange does not have to be sure that the judicial expert or one appraisal is the most relevant person to establish the market price. She showed us the practice of warning us of, in fact, unpleasant experiences that all court experts evaluated and declared the market price. I know the commission isn't popular, but I'm not sure it would be more effective than an appraiser or a court expert. A court expert can indeed determine the quality of the property of which the material, what heat insulation is, everything. But I think maybe one economist understands the market price more than any court expert. But in the combination of both court and economists and financial experts, there may be a more realistic price that will not be damaged by either the beneficiary of the authority, but also by the owner of the property. I'm not sure it's a good solution to leave it to one. I think you should think about some even better solutions. And in the end, I'm gonna go back to that exorcism and the whole procedure. You said we didn't read the law until the end, but neither did you tell us what, which law or which article makes it impossible for only the user to bear the costs. Is there a Law on Administrative Procedure That Crosses It? If I say so, then I'm withdrawing that proposal. But if that doesn't prevent it, and I'm sure there's no law that prevents it, then it's only logical and only natural for the user to bear all the costs of expropriation and not the owner of the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79118	Thank you, too. And finally on behalf of the promoter, Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79119	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank everyone for the suggestions that have been made and we'll try to get as much input as possible. Maybe a few things that came up during the debate. So, I'll start at the end. It's not exactly a provision, so I didn't say it did. As far as the evaluation is concerned, we think that this is the most important methodology. So, neither the commission nor the commission will help us unless we establish a unique methodology for assessing all real estate in all state-level procedures. Because now even if you had a commission, you'd have three members, so all three would think differently. So, the methodology of all the countries that have this issue settled in the right way, where this issue does not open specifically. So there's some deviation of ten percent which is always what can be tolerated. They have a methodology. There are several at the level means world methodology. We'll go down for one of her. There are her corrections. It must be transparent, it must be in such a way that all of us, when we read it, can see how the appraiser came to a certain value and that's the key to everything. It's the key to everything, not the exorcism. It's the key to a fair treatment of real estate, anyone. If you want from a trial or punishment when you don't give God up to any other one, here's an expropriation. As for the annulment you mentioned, I agree that it is always dangerous if abuse occurs. However, I would just like to draw your attention to article 45 that regulates cancellation. So within 7 years, such a decision of expropriation may be annulled if it is not guided according to purpose. This is Article 45. There was also talk of temporary entry into the property. We temporarily think that this is how we put it dramatically changed in relation to the solution so far. The current solution actually gives us the following. There are conditions for exorcism, you paid or if you won't receive the deposit you deposited the money and you can go in and build. Yeah, so that's what this law provides. That's what Mr. Grbin also pointed out. That's the answer. ... Yeah, well, all right. [[You can't hear it.]] That's why I'm telling you because you haven't read it. But look, so that's your article 41. At the speed of the procedure, there will always be some time left to unsettled property legal relations the problem. But we've been here and we've been pointing out the quick exceptions to call them that, but I'm going to tell you that's what's left of it, the problems with how many of these objects can't be registered because we've gone into quick authority and now we've got that problem. So sometimes it's better to go a little easier respecting the procedure, a little easier not to interfere with the project but to bring everything from beginning to end. Because sometimes fast solutions given the constitutional provisions can... the problem in practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm not prone to that kind of intersection because we can't. Prosecution under the Constitution is an exception. So if you're taking someone's property, you can only do it in exceptional cases prescribed by law with a procedure that will be clear, firm to say so. We talked about a public debate and at all about the problem of the eyewitnesses, the problem of determining the witches, etc. We have here applied solutions that are actually in the Administrative Procedure Act, where you must, for example, give each party to make a statement about the person of the witch, then it is better to gather them together and make a statement, rather than determine them, so that they may plead later, so we must gather them again. So we think with this in relation to what happens to us sometimes in practice, we're going to follow a solution, and if we don't, we're going to correct it, but that's an important idea. Because simple standards are so set that you have to give some rights, then they're better given at some point in public debate, open up, close up, get rid of them. Whoever had something to say said and then we'll move on. The public of the data is one question. We'll rule out that at least we can read the price of real estate in the area and see if there's any excesses, so if there's any excess, then we can look into what's going on later. But we have to avoid connecting this particular amount to a specific person. If we put in a particle number, then we actually connect to a specific person. So we think that we're going to achieve transparency already by saying that 5 real estates are subject to 100 to 400, so there's always the right to access information, etc., there can be more data on that basis later. But this is what should be available to everyone at any time in the register. The deadlines, however, absolutely need to be set, but we have come back from the solutions that the Administrative Procedure Act provides that if a public-legal body does not respond within 30 days it is deemed to have given its consent. That's why we didn't predict it especially in this law, we don't think there's a need for that. The law on administrative procedure and some other deadlines is in place, so we didn't go. Do you set deadlines for courts and catastros which was here for action? This is what we will consider, so eventually with the amendment, at least I'm not sure how realistic it is and how much we're going to get because we already have a provision that these are emergency procedures, so in practice it doesn't often work out that way. But we'll check it out. The cost, in fact, was a lot of thought, a lot of conversation. I still think that based on the agreement which is public, which will be in the end line published I see no reason why the user of the exemption would not bear part of the cost. I repeat, on the basis of an agreement that has been made public to see what is being paid for, which I do not. According to our positive regulations, this is impossible in terms of wages, so there can be no bribery in what I said was an example of the restoration of land books where it is an extremely useful tool for us to bear part of the cost. Sometimes it's small amounts that hinder us in a quick solution, but I say transparently, and if there's any objections, we won't go any further with it. But I think that's correct. As far as the costs of the proceedings are concerned, I continue to advocate this solution for each party to bear it. Why? Because we have provided the highest cost, the cost of skill, and the assessment that will be based on the new methodology, always comes from the user. So you have an objectively one category that exists, you have the responsibility of a state-run governing body to protect the interests of the parties, to take care of a party that is ignorant, to give her all the help she needs, and we don't expect that there will be any particular problems. We talked here, I said before, about this solution enough with many. Not only with investors, we talked to the people who are running the process, we also talked to representatives of civil society who in some way represent these authorities, and that is one of the solutions that we opted for. So, here's another one I'd like to thank you for. We'll consider some of these things. I can already tell you that we will accept some of this cost from the fact that it applies to material things to some other things and through the amendments, we solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79120	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79121	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said price determination was the most important methodology. I agree with that, but the law does not write a methodology, the law states in Article 11 that the property is subject to real estate tax at the level of the market value of the property. For one large majority, it is not possible to establish a market price and it is possible somewhere. The market price is only a regulatory category. The methodology cannot lead to a market price. That rules out each other. But there are places where the market price is possible wherever there are exchanges of goods, where there are more bidders, more demand-holders, and in this case expropriation. There's only one investigator and no one's offering. Then we can't talk about the market, there's no market because there's only one that's looking for that real estate, and the one that's being ruled out, he's not even offering it. Therefore, it is not a market category. That's why it's important to distinguish between these two things. When you say about the fee and the cost, don't ask me not to insist on the cost-sharing. Because you didn't provide anything to the real estate owner because he doesn't want to sell that property. He's passive in this situation, he's powerless and passive, he's let go. If the price offered will be accepted, the price, if not accepted, will be the same price in another form only but it is always the same price. And he doesn't want to sell it, but he's forced and he has to because of the state's interest. But then let's not give him any extra expenses. His intention is not to sell, he is not willing in this regard. And whoever's not on their own terms, we don't have the right to impose any costs on him. And what is it for someone with a real estate advantage to pay this total cost on a total investment that is even of national strategic interest? Well, then that's really funny if he can't pay a couple hundred kunas of court spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79122	Thank you. Answer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79123	Thank you very much. Therefore, the concept of market value is regulated by the Constitution, is not regulated by its content but is defined. So we have to go from him. I agree that we could talk about some other ways, he's like that and he's the only one we care about. What I'd like you to do, so there's an article 25 where this methodology is being introduced, we say it's going to be solved by a special regulation, exactly the way of determining the value. And that's what matters. So it's a methodology, it's probably going to be similar to German, meaning something that applies in many countries in a unique way with the same approach. But I'm saying, it's market-based by the Constitution and we can't... Well, but... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] in our legal system. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, about what you said about the cost we talked a lot about, and here's the question. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79124	I thank the ministers. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79125	Final proposal of the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation, second reading, P.Z. No. 598. The debate on the final text of the law has been concluded, and the amendments have been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Articles 62 and 64, they have become an integral part of the final draft of the law. The Government also submitted amendments after the deadline laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am putting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 78 votes in favour and 24 votes in favour, have adopted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the applicant's representative, the respected Deputy Minister of Justice, Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, to explain Amendment No 1 to Article 2, paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government shall submit Amendment No 1 to Article 2, paragraph 3, with a view to extending the exemption law. In addition to legal and nomotechnical addition, the proposed amendment determines that the extradition procedures will be able to be implemented, i.e. the real estate will be able to be authorised when it comes to buildings which are subject to Article 56(2) of the Law on the Spatial Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as buildings of national and specific regional importance. Execution will be possible in relation to those property declared by the government to be strategic investment projects, and this was also in the previous provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79127	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'll give it to... Amendment number one. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 24 votes against Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79128	Compared to article 19, I assume? Amendment No 2 to Article 19 [[The incursion president: Yes, yes.]] The government submits for reasons that the preceding provision has been unclear and has led to confusion, namely in which part of the co-financed work of the competent authorities is being co-financed. The co-financing shall not relate to the salary of the competent person but to the material costs necessary for the competent authority to be able to carry out the empowerment procedure. Those means for the work of the competent authorities shall not include the funds necessary for the payment of salaries to persons, i.e. specific managers of the procedure working on the extradition procedures, and shall be employed by the competent authority. We're here to determine that it's a compensation for the resources to work, so those jobs that actually represent a material cost. Contracts and extradition procedures are generally exceptional transactions, cannot be planned in advance and require additional engagement or additional expenditure from competent public authorities. Most manifest in increasing material costs. With this amendment and this provision, we allow for the compensation of these material costs to be achieved, with a view to implementing the exemption in good time and quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79129	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendments 2. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 78 for and 24 against the vote accepted Amendment No 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79130	Thank you very much. Amendment No 3 applies to Article 25(2). Instead of saying a way, we replace it with a word in the way in which the expression is done in accordance with the text of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79131	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendment 3. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 79 for and 23 against the vote accepted Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79132	Thank you very much. Amendment No 4 concerns Article 38, and Article 38 refers to the costs of the extradition procedures and has been subject to considerable debate. With this amendment, the government wants to put things in a fairer relationship as discussed and requested. In fact, we give up the variant that each party carries the cost of the extradition procedure because it is true that it is an extraordinary procedure in which the owner is involved, and in order to take the interest of the construction, the property is excluded. Therefore, the costs of the procedure under the current amendment of the Government shall be borne by the beneficiary of the exemption. We've made an exception here because there's a possible occurrence of abuse in a way that the owner will still be the one who will bear the expense and that cost that caused his appeal, and the complaint is not adopted. So if the owner filed a complaint, and the complaint wasn't adopted, he'll pay for it. Other costs borne by the user of the expropriation, that is also on the trail of the previous solution in the previous law. We also added to the amendment paragraph 2 which decides on costs in a way that only those who were necessarily disputed are taken and that we have determined the value of these disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79133	I am opening a debate on Amendment 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, please welcome on behalf of the club. Let him speak for the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79134	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if you're even aware of what this amendment to the government we're introducing precedent into the functioning of the judiciary, the administrative bodies of the state. If you put in law that if you complain and your complaint is not accepted, you will pay the costs. So you, with this amendment, are abolishing the fundamental right of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs to complain about a decision they consider unfair from their point of view. You can speak on behalf of the SDP club, I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, express my position and please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79135	It's the club's attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79136	I'm sorry, I said on behalf of the HDZ Club I apologize. So we are aware of the facts and find in one law such a provision or similar provision to punish the basic right of appeal if that complaint is not adopted. So what message are we sending to Croatian citizens? Are we getting them back in the '50s? Croatia is an EU member, so do you really think that by your own interest and assessment of what a strategic investment is for Croatia, which is a strategic investment for local self-government units and based on what you want to do. Well, you can't violate elemental rights, so the entire world democracy rests on private property. Private property is sacred. And you can't ban any citizen from complaining of any decision. But if you tell him if those complaints aren't passed, then you'll pay the fine. Take a look at all the ministries that have second-degree procedures as far as you have second-degree procedures at the moment. Look at the administrative court how many proceedings you have. So these bodies were established to enable the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to complain about certain acts issued by state authorities. Who of the citizens will complain to whom the property was seized by a fee he thinks is not fair if it stands in law, if the complaint is not adopted, you will pay those costs. What are we talking about? The HDZ Club cannot support this amendment at all, and I think that this amendment to a lot of those bad provisions in the Law of Exclusion is still throwing us into a black hole and is really bringing us back to a time when the Croats for a matchbox took a value of several hundred million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79137	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79138	... and that provision needs that amendment abolished. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Here's enough of everything I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79139	Are there any more interested in discussing the club representatives. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go. That's why I'm asking the honourable counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79140	... My colleagues and colleagues, the Government tried to correct to the amendments a part of what the comments on the debate were made and this second amendment on the definition of what these means for the work of the authorities implementing the extradition procedure were correcting because it was indeed a terrible formulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now it comes with the amendment, first of all, that the expropriation of private assets for private investment can be carried out under government regulations inconclusive of ownership and this amendment no. 4 on Article 38, the applicant shall be released from the payment of the costs of the appeal procedure only if it succeeds in the procedure. Let's translate it into folk language understandablely. By the government's rule of law, the state takes someone's private property, a farmer's plastic production, two of which the entire family lives on. If you complain and your appeal is denied and we take your existence, you'll still pay the costs of the appeal procedure. If we respect the principle of property ineligibleness and empower the Government to impair and declare private such investments not only by state, it is not correct from the state that the appeal procedure of the owner who remains without property goes to the burden of that same state which has taken such a decision that takes away private property and which can often lead to a loss of existence. The elemental right of citizens must be that this appeal procedure, when it is in possession of him and he is taking away property, has the right to appeal proceedings against the person who initiated the procedure and who carried out the procedure and who is able to... As I said in the debate at the time, and I am now stressing, under these appeal procedures and costs, I do not mean any court proceedings that last 10 or 15 years, which are often and not guilty, but by the judiciary, but by a complaint which is declared to be a first-degree solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we don't want to accept that on a burden or a user of authority or state. Or a user of authority or state. If this amendment enters into the text of the law, not only have we cleared up with the security of private property but also in advance, you complain, you will be left without property, you will pay the costs of the appeal procedure and thus encourage citizens to be investors in, say, properties that often become an interesting area of expropriation for political decision. No owner, especially one who deals with entrepreneurship or agriculture, wishes his property to be authorized. This is what those who bought it because they had authorized information, misused position and authority, and thus became rich so far. It would be very good, very smart, extremely useful for this amendment to be withdrawn by the Government and the whole article to be reformed that the appeal procedure goes either to the burden of the state or to the user of the authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79141	Thank you very much. I didn't see you raise your hand? Here you go. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79142	Thank you, Mr. President. During the debate on this law, we also warned the Government that it was necessary, in place of a regulation on the assessment of the value of real estate, to pass the law, and that it was completely understandable and opportune, I would say, that this law is being discussed precisely in the course of the adoption of this law. Because even then, I was saying that the government is as a representative of the Republic of Croatia who represents interests when the property of the Republic of Croatia is concerned with conflict of interest when it adopts a regulation assessing real estate. Why? Because, on the one hand, the beneficiary of the expropriation is, on the other hand, prescribing the methodology and parameters which determine the criteria for the determination of the value of a particular property that is often managed by private entrepreneurs, and that property is known to be the property of the Republic of Croatia. There is, therefore, absolutely not acceptable to give that authority to the Government by virtue of the Law on Spatial Planning, and as far as I hear it, the Government is already in the body of the adoption of that regulation. It was therefore absolutely acceptable for the document on real estate assessment to be brought by the Croatian Parliament, not the Government, because I say the Government thus comes into conflict of interest, given that at the same time it is also a representative of the owners of the Republic of Croatia and, on the other hand, the user of the empowerment. And that's where I agree with you, you're absolutely right. We should have discussed the Real Estate Assessment Act in Parliament, and that was exactly parallel to the Law on Expropriation and Determination of Compensation. In this way we practically pass one law without knowing the consequences of this law for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79143	Thank you very much. Thank you. There's no response to the replica. Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79144	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this amendment. In order to remind ourselves, the party is the owner and user of the expropriation process. Of course, the initiation of the procedure and those costs are borne by the user of the exemption. After the decision, first-degree decisions, the dissatisfaction party, it may also be the owner and may also be the beneficiary of the extradition, if they consider that they have the prospect of being able to succeed in the second-degree proceedings to appeal. If they succeed either side, depending on who complains, they will receive, so they will bear a fresh start of costs, and they will be given due to the success of the procedure to receive compensation from the opposite party, whether it is the owner or whether it is the user. In this way, and what is now meant to be said, that it is nowhere at all, that it is a violation of the right of ownership. Let us not lead the public astray because there is such a thing in all procedures. Our entire civil proceedings are just based on the fact that everyone is carrying out their own expenses, and in the end, according to the success of the lawsuit, the opposing party who lost the dispute is obliged to bear all costs. In such a way that someone who doesn't have any prospects, I will now not be committed to either side, to any owner, to any user, who doesn't seem to succeed in the process, but he has the right to appeal which is undeniable, by the Constitution guaranteed. For reasons he knows he won't bear the costs, but he's only stalling or making mistakes on the opposite side. So it's all clear and don't say it, when you're discussing it, don't say it's not in our system because it's in our system. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. Read the laws before you speak. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79145	Your Honor, you asked me to... Comrade Shuker, fellow Shuker, good afternoon. Okay. You asked him not to disturb you, just a colleague of Ingrid's, and now you're involved in a debate from the bench. Don't. Thank you very much. ... Please, nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner, Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, it's gone, it's gone. There is, of course, in the first degree, but not when he complains. But what exactly is this about in the end? It's a law that brings us back to the '40s, back in '46, '47, '48, when people were taking away private property. So here we have a situation that private property that should be uncut in every democratic country is taken away and then you get that some fee that can be symbolic, and if you're not satisfied with it then you still have to pay the appeal procedure. That's really unimaginable. This may be in line with one's worldly horizons, but it is truly unimaginable in a country that is a member of the European Union. Some have obviously not realized that we are a member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79147	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79148	It's amazing, sir, fellow academics, that you're talking without reading it. However, this final bill protects owners to a better extent than it was during your authority in 2006 when you changed the Law on Execution. And all the other things you said, you said it by heart. Read the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79149	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79150	My colleague Ingrid said that the cost of the complaint must be paid by those who complain to make mistakes to the other side. Therefore, the owner of agricultural land which deals with the sole occupation of agriculture remains without property in the order of the State Act. He complains only to make a mistake on the other side. That makes sense, does that make sense? A man defends his property, his property. In the appeal procedure he tries to challenge something, a goal, a purpose, a way, an assessment of value, anything that he does to make a mistake on the other side. That's how we treat the right of the owner when he loses his property by his own free will. When he could not influence both spatial or urban plans and where he could not move elsewhere to produce what he lives on. I think we should really pay attention to what we're saying when it comes to taking away ownership by virtue of the state's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79151	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79152	Dear colleague, this is no use to your populist performance to anyone, and at least to those concerned. If the dissatisfaction party has made a complaint, it will succeed in its appeal to make up for the cost. And what's the problem, what's the problem? Do you think the party that made the complaint and failed in the dispute, whether it was the owner or the user of the expropriation just went through? Well, I'm sorry, I know a little bit more about that. Our courts are full of high-level litigators, full, no matter who it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79153	Thank you very much. Respected representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt on behalf of the club debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79154	Comrade Antičević, you mentioned in your presentation of a party that does not have...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79155	Hello, did you ask for a debate on behalf of the club or...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79156	I did both.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79157	I didn't see the replica. ... Okay, here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And those who have eyes back that are interesting MPs, that's not bad. (Laughter) That's not bad, that's very good. That's very good. I love it when you drive back. Here you go. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79158	Mr. President, I raised my hand, I didn't raise a replicator, that's the point. So I'd just like to draw attention to something for my colleague Anticevic. You can't speak in this party council that don't have a chance. It's simply inadmissible to discuss here at all about parties that have no chance. Every party has a chance, but it's her discretionary right to initiate a complaint or not. We can't restrict the rights of citizens here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79159	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79160	Each party, if it is a conscientious party, and even their authority, shall be obliged to advise its own party on its own prospects. Of course it's the right of the party to always decide. And I repeat the problem. The appeal is allowed. The party that succeeds will receive compensation from the opposite side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79161	Thank you very much. Here you are, on behalf of the club of representatives, respected representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79162	Dear Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We really spent a lot of time during the debate right here on this article, and it looks like we're gonna keep going. So, I don't know what the problem is that all the laws of expropriation so far had a provision that the user of the expropriation would bear the costs of the execution. What is happening now in the government, in the ministry, to propose such a provision? After our really reasoned allegations you changed part of the provision, but you have now left the costs to be borne in the appeal procedure. I will only warn that the complaint is a control tool in the work of the first-degree body, that the appeal is a constitutional category. So this is how you break the Constitution. You directly favor an expropriation user here, this is how you press the property owner to drop the appeal and I don't think that's right. I don't think that's right, that you are in violation of the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Constitution, as well as of the European conventions that we have proudly adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79163	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79164	I agree here with Wesen that we simply don't need that article. Clearly, a citizen must be allowed to complain under quotes and to be free and to be impartial. And it needs a simple system to enable it. We can't do it without the Act of Extortion, I guess it's clear to all of us, schools, roads, hospitals that should be built in private clear that they need the Act of Extortion. Clearly in our law of real estate can also be excluded because of private interest. And then what do we have? On the one hand, we have a price, on the other hand we have spatial plans and we have greater interests. But what we've heard before is reasonable reasons. For example, if someone wants to build a family hotel on my country, which my child may want to build someday. Well, of course I'm right, and I have to have the right to defend my own. And it's no problem when you take it privately for public, for school, for road or waterway, but it is when you take it in private to express yourself or manage for private. And finally, which means actually I'm the term especially here when it comes to mine. The real estate of the litigious litigators. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79165	Replica response, distinguished representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79166	Dear colleague Cain, you've said a lot. So, there's no problem here, so I don't think anyone in this House is against the investor, against the expropriation user. On the contrary, there is a need for more investment to be made and built regardless of whether domestic or foreign. But the basic question is whether you allow the owner of the expropriation and whether he gets, therefore, the owner of the property whether he gets the right value, whether he gets the reduced value for his real estate and whether it depends on whether he complains or not. And if he gets reduced value, and you're still asking him to pay the costs of the appeal procedure, then you double-damaged him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79167	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica. I'm asking Cain not to discuss it from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79168	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Ozbolt, you said well that the appeal practically protects those whom someone with an act would try to harm. That's what it's got! So maybe sometimes consciously, sometimes unconsciously, maybe someone looks at the law like this, looks at the law like this. But this Act of Exclusion was meant to help investors on the one hand, and to protect those to whom the property is taken away. So, that's what the Minister here said was about the intensity of this law. With this amendment, however, the government is simply destroying it, because the one to whom the property is taken away is 90% of the cases in a subordinate position. So, some kind of spatial plan or something is determined that something is going to go down that property because something is going to be built. And on the very basis of that, his real estate lost value compared to what it would be if it were a normal procedure. And even if we give him a provision that he will pay the costs of the expropriation if his appeal is not accepted, we send him a clear message to accept or give up. So what kind of message we are sending and whether we are going towards European trends or going back in the years 20 and 30 years ago when people are being taken from very valuable properties, they are being built on certain infrastructure facilities or something else, and people are basically getting nothing. So this is something that just isn't good. And another thing to say here, this comparison with civil litigation is just ridiculous. Because that's where you know if you lose a lawsuit to bear the costs of the proceedings. Well, that's the law. So comparing two things that are incomparable is ridiculous. That reminds me of what two and two are, says four, but it can be five, and that's still small.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79169	Replica response, distinguished representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79170	Well, here's a esteemed colleague of Shucker's only really one sentence. This way to practically separate the handling of the expropriation costs into the first-degree procedure and the appeal procedure I think is discriminatory because as I said the appeal is a constitutional category, the appeal is a review of the decision of the first-degree body and in this way it is practically a pressure on the owner of the property to give up the appeal just so he doesn't have to bear the costs of the authorisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79171	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79172	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you esteemed colleagues that such an amendment is absolutely not in line with the Constitution and that the constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and at least what it does demotes any real estate owner who is authorized to initiate a procedure that can cause it a considerable cost. In fact, when changing the purpose of its land by means of a spatial plan, a citizen has very little opportunity, given that in the process of adopting a spatial plan that has changed the purpose of its land, he points out an observation to which the remark corresponds to the designer of the plan and thus ends his rights. The first time he can truly defend his right to an expropriation procedure in a valid way, in which we now speak additionally with such an amendment that if you even initiate such a single procedure, then you may be able to pay considerable costs. I think that there is really no need to bring such an amendment and in this way to suggest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that even for private investment, we give it rights in order to implement or allow a private investor to carry out his investment more easily at the expense of his rights and not to take care of real estate owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79173	Thank you very much. I am finalising the debate on Amendment No. 4. Please state who's in favour of Amendment No. 4 Governments of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 2 abstentions are accepted. 4 Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Deputy Deputy Minister of the Amendment No. 5 Governments of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79174	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 5 The scope of the data to be published in the Register of Irregular Property shall be extended. Namely, the goal is to establish the transparency of these procedures. In the part of the data published in the register we add data on the form and height of the fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79175	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 5. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment No. 5 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? The result? I find that the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour, 26 votes against Amendment No. 5 Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 6 Governments of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79176	Amendment No. 6 refers to Article 63, where we would add paragraph 2 which is, in fact, a transitional provision in relation to the specific regulation on the determination and way of assessing the value of the property, which is the esteemed representative Bačić spoke to the net, so it is now impossible to achieve a complete time-consistency of the adoption of both regulations. The Exclusion Act was so established that the value of the property was determined by a specific regulation on how to determine the value of the property. Given that we will not catch that time to cover the period until the regulation is passed, we would add item 2 of which, of course, the value of the property is estimated as well as the boredom in the process on the basis of the reasoned opinion of the experts or assessors.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79177	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 6 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour and 27 votes in favour of Amendment No. 6 Governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee, the respected deputy minister. No. 1 amendment, to Article 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79178	If I may suggest that we accept these amendments unitedly because they are all nomotechnical and there are four.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79179	Yes, of course. Thank you very much, if you accept all the amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79180	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79181	They become an integral part of the final bill. We are then going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the DC and Independent Representatives Martincevic and Baloevic. Amendment No. One?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79182	Amendment No. 1 refers to Article 19. Previously, we discussed Articles 19 and 19 of the amendments to the Government, i.e. the clarification of the statements in which part of the costs will possibly be co-financed. So it's about the material labour costs arising from these extraordinary jobs, so we don't think this amendment should be accepted because it's already been resolved by the government amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79183	Amendment holder? In the name of the applicant, the respected representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, my proposal for an amendment, you did indeed improve or clarify Article 19, however, there is a prescribed co-financing of the body by the beneficiaries of the exemption. We believe that this is contrary to the Law on Administrative Procedure, and in particular to the principle of proportionality in the protection of the rights of parties of public interest. For these reasons, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79185	Please state the amendment number one. A DC rep club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Rated, he didn't get the required majority. Amendment number two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79186	Amendment 2 would be assessed as unambiguous since it relates to Article 26(4). In the meantime, between the first reading and the second reading, this provision is completely different from the one item, and we think we should withdraw it, we wouldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79187	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant of the term of office, a respected representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79188	Thank you very much. We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79189	Thank you very much. Amendment number two has been withdrawn. Amendment number 3 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79190	We're back on Article 38 and the cost of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79191	That's right. That's settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79192	As we discussed recently, I will be free here to explain the basic concepts of setting costs in procedures. Therefore, in all proceedings, whether they are litigious, administrative, or otherwise, the rule applies to each party to bear its own expense, or to what it has caused. The characteristics of the extradition procedure are precisely that it is precisely because it is a decision in the interest of the public authority to place a burden on the beneficiary of the expropriation. So it's an exception to the rules that everyone carries their own expense. As we have explained with the amendment of the Government, the user of the exemption will bear all the costs of the extradition procedure, and the only exception is the cost of the complaint, so not the cost of the entire extradition procedure, only the cost of the appeal, and only in case the party with the complaint failed. So it's an apostosteriore decision on cost. Each party shall have the right to appeal and, of course, to submit it but like all other proceedings, and only for the cost of the complaint will it be assessed whether it has succeeded subsequently with that complaint and will subsequently be relatively successful, here will normally be the extent of success because it is the amount of compensation and a certain range. So it won't be a whole cost. Therefore, after the decision on the appeal was completed, the party who was not able to compensate for the cost is then charged with it. And it doesn't affect any constitutional right to appeal at all, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79193	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79194	Dear Madam Deputy Minister, it is not clear to me at all why you have virtually changed the good provision that has been in the boredom of all the laws of authority, to all who have passed this House. You were practically using this proposal to benefit the users of the expropriation. In this way you have really damaged the owner of the property, regardless of what you have partially returned the old provision, you have not returned it entirely and here I am asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79195	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number three. The Vesna Scare-Ozbolt club, the DC that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79196	Amendment number four refers to article 46, so it's about us, just to be clear, forgive me. Therefore, we would not accept this proposal because the legal provision provides for a rule to determine the compensation for the fully authorized real estate by giving on behalf of the fee and other relevant properties whose value corresponds to the level of the market value of the asset. It is important that such property is replaced by the property owner, which is subject to the same conditions of use that he had using outsourced real estate. In its natural form, the real estate fee allows its owner and ownership on the good of the same characteristics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79198	So, no different, better or worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79199	Thank you very much. I'm asking on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79200	Therefore, this provision of yours is strictly contrary to the principle of market economy or to the principle of market compensation that is incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You have practically re-injured Article 50 in this way. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes that the law may limit or withdraw ownership in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, in the public interest, but with compensation only at market value. And please vote on this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79201	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number four. A DC rep club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number five of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79202	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government does not accept this proposal for the following reasons. In particular, Article 48(1) provides for a situation, i.e. where there is a need for the authorisation of a property that is not built in accordance with the regulations, i.e. a colloquial statement in relation to a property that does not have a building permit. So if the property does not have a building permit, the owner of such a property does not have the right to expropriate. However, we are now in the process of legalising illegally built buildings and we seek to regulate this provision. We are also looking at the period of real estate built before 15 February 68th, because according to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and Property, they are considered to have been built with a building permit, those which were later built and the legal process is under way, which procedures will be conducted in the extradition procedure, so the procedure will be terminated and this will be considered a preliminary issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79204	Only a little while, and paragraph 7 allows the owner and user to agree that although the property is illegal, although it is built without a building permit, the owner and the real estate user can agree that this value is still to be paid in order for the construction to be completed, it is not the preference of the user, but it is the reference of the user and the owner to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79205	Thank you very much. The obvious...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79206	Dear Deputy Minister, I agree that this is not a preference for users, but it is an unequal position of the owner, which is what you say in paragraph 1 that all those illegal properties are practically... to make up for, and then in paragraph 7, you open... right. How in this country can we really suspect objectivity... rights, which is why we have proposed the abolition of paragraph 7. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79207	I'd like to make a statement about Amendment number five, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number six of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79208	Amendment No 6 concerns Article 62. The Government also had an amendment to this article which we did not process, it is that the Government amendment proposed the application of this law to those procedures which, under the previous law... were separated to... and to compensation, would apply this law in order to cover the legal area, i.e. the application of the rules. So, we don't accept this amendment because, with the Government amendment, we've solved this transitional situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79209	Thank you very much. In the name of the applicant...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79210	Thank you very much. Since you've solved a part of my concerns, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79211	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the amendment of the respected representative Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79212	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment, as referred to in Article 19, and we have already talked about it, so we have arranged with the amendment of the Government, co-financing of material costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79213	Thank you. The honourable representative is not in the hall, we must declare the amendment to the respected... Let's see who's in. Thank you very much. The rated didn't get the required majority. Synchronising "%s" We've already accepted that, I'm sorry, dear deputy, you haven't, I've already pointed that out. [[Intruder: Sorry, we are left with the Government's amendments to Article 62...]] Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79214	We continue with - proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 667; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. We have with us a proposing representative, Minister Orsat Milenic. The Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79215	You got it. Thank you very much. So before you is the draft, so the law is in the first reading, the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, I'll say a few words about it. They talked a lot, so I might be relatively brief, but I'm sure through the debate, I'll have the opportunity to look back at certain things. So this is, we've been running the process of reducing the number of judicial bodies since 2008, we've been going in the opposite direction, so we've been going towards an increase. So the 208th started and it's a constant process. We are considering what and how to do next concluded that an additional step is needed that will not only represent territorial reorganisation but will bring some organisational shifts especially as regards judicial administrations and the other concerning the appeal procedure. Some information that is unfortunately the way it is, and here I'd like to say that the judiciary is nothing worse than other segments of society. I wish it was better and that's the problem because all of our problems that we have end up in the judiciary, so it has to be better than the other segments of society and that's what our real problem is. But the parameters of the kind that we all deal with, the ones that you deal with, the people that we look at, are such that it's not a good condition that it doesn't need to be changed. So we need to change it because we're not happy with it. We are a country that, if we are talking about first-degree procedures, that always varies data because the question is what is first-degree procedure, whether or not they come in, but this is data of some kind published at the level of the Council of Europe. We are on some 460 days, 465, the average of the Council of Europe, and that is to say beyond the European Union some countries that are considered wrong sometimes but that are less developed in the judicial system is 272. We've been doing some sort of indicative analysis so the average value of cases of dispute in Croatia is about 108 thousand kuna. I mean, it's very relative, I'm talking about average, what the system throws out, and then if you just do it with interest, it's over 2 billion kunas for citizens only to pay for this difference in length. At the same time, we are a country that is second in the Council of Europe, so wider than the European Union, but also in the European Union, Slovenia, second in Croatia, by the number of judges per capita. Issuing from the budget, we are often talking about salaries, the budget separation, we are in the very, relative separation, we are in the middle of the European Union, something slightly below the middle, relatively detached from the budget. I think these are also not ours, these are statistics that you can find at European Union level. All of this, on the other hand, we can talk about the fact that, that we're on some 75% of the budget that only goes for wages, we can talk about the fact that the burden is to say if we're talking about judges is about 1:5. So someone has 15 items someone 75 for the same pay. The fact that in some courts you have a judge of two officials, some 18. That's what we pay out of the budget. About the fact that we have a situation in which we are, there is no mobility, so you can have it, now I will take an example of Zagreb, Zaprešić, so city transport, but you can't transfer anyone from Zapresic to the Palace of Justice in Vukovar if you have a shortage and in Zapresić you have a surplus. Then what do you have to do? Hiring new ones. We're going to talk about the constitutional solution that we've put on, I have to say I don't know why we put it in the Constitution, that it's up to 70 years old, so now you have a 69-year-old judge who has to run the debate because they're at the first degree and you have the fact that, that's the only category of citizens that works up to 70 per Constitution, and you have the fact that you also have so few people retired. We counted out of nearly 2.5 thousand officials, so state attorneys and judges you're going in five years something over 100 in retirement. Then you see how much room it is for new entry, etc. So these are all the facts that are ahead of us. We've put it in, we've done an analysis that's available on our website, and I've presented many of you through various committees where it's seen exactly that for every official, for every judge, we've made complete data for every judicial body. From how many cases he has until he retires, how many he solves annually, to what kind of space he works and what he needs from information equipment. So we did that, it exists, and it's available. And then we thought, so we took the parameters and went to address what's most important to the citizens, and 95% of the cases, 93 takes place in front of municipal courts, Infringement courts and municipal state attorneys. That's why we decided to have fun. And unfortunately, because of our custom we also relaxed the rules about the appeal most of them end up in a complaint, so the appeal procedure is what we need to deal with. Then, there are different approaches when you do reorganization you can always do it mathematically, mathematically economically to clave so that it means that you are handled only by numbers, and the numbers would be very harsh and inapplicable to the country as Croatia is. Because our country isn't equally developed and it's really not right that some area that hasn't been developed enough and had a small number of inhabitants and that's why a small number of cases, we're left without a court, without the possibility of legal protection. Also at the county level. You know that a network was set up, we didn't set it up, out of 15 county courts and she's like that. We could now go one step further and really all consciousness on the 5.6 county courts and find a mathematical justification for that again. But we decided to leave all 15 and develop Croatia in a way that develops through 15 judicial areas. It is something that should allow for the preservation and quality in a series of centres, not that we all join in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek there is no need. With what we're going to do in the appeal process, we can organise a balanced development of the profession and there's no need to concentrate it in a small number. We are talking about judicial areas, our original proposal was that one judicial area had one fundamental court, but this is one of the laws where we conducted a very broad public debate. And I went all over Croatia, three months, four more I don't even know how many and we talked to everyone everywhere. And the proposal was coming from different sides to leave to respect the county division and to keep that one fundamental court in the county. Since he doesn't conceptually violate what we want to achieve then we went after him for exactly why we have counties, we want to encourage their development means we accepted this request and that came from all sides and we took one if you want to and we went into it. So what will our network look like? 15 county courts, in order to ensure their existence but not only of existence, but to give citizens a faster solution to the case, to move towards a level playing field, it will not end with evening it much more needs to be done, but to move in that direction. And to achieve what's important in everything we all do, an equal salary for equal work, I'm talking about judges and officials now, we're going towards the national jurisdiction of county courts. What does that mean? That when you get the verdict in Čakovec then the system will algorithmically determine which council is free anywhere in Croatia and will go there. I note, it's about cases where parties don't go, so it's about cases where there's no discussion. That's where we'll make the corrections so we don't send a man to go from Chakovec to Dubrovnik. I've now simulated it there's a whole series of do-overs but they're not in this law, I'm just telling you this law opens up the possibility of it and that's the basic principle. There's also four of what we're going to get with that, which is we're going to remove the appeal decision from the local community which due to perception is a good thing. I'm not saying that bad things happen, but a citizen feels better if he's not in the same building in the second degree, he's better off in second degree somewhere else, and that's an important shift. I repeat, not because someone would do something wrong but simply because it's perception. You know that 50% of the parties in the judiciary are always dissatisfied and that he will explain to himself that he lost because he was wrong. He explains to himself that he lost because someone set him up and played something bad. That's why this is especially one branch where we have to take care of perception. So county courts stay as they are in the grid as they are set up, they're equating with this number of cases. I'll tell you the ratios, you have, you may be full of which but that's, like, 53 cases in Karlovac, 146 in Zagreb per judge in criminal, now we're going to go to the average that's at the national level of 93. It's similar in civic. So it's about county. As far as municipal courts are concerned, that's where we imagined staying in one county remains one municipal court, the rest becoming permanent services. What do we get with that? We get primary mobility in one area. I'll take an example, for example Osijek, but I'll take an example from Zagreb. You will now be with this, and the rule will be that criminal proceedings at the headquarters of the Osijek Criminal Department can take over all criminal cases from all over the area, which means that in Našice 2 or 3 judges will now work civilally, which means that citizens will get a much faster solution than they have now. And the rule is but it decides the fate of one another, doesn't decide the executive, that if you need to go somewhere that the judges will travel. Nowhere will it be further from some distance east-west of Zagreb I speak indicatively, so these are not great distances because islands will always be specific and that is how we predict it, but it is okay for citizens to get a better service in this way. Through this, specialization is made possible, because all of us, when we have a dispute, prefer to go to someone who has solved 100 or 200 or 500 such things rather than someone who solves them one or two, that's normal. We'll get better quality. That's what we need again. The mobility of a clerk, so a whole series of officers we have now sometimes happens in the same building on the first floor shortness, on the second floor surplus, and that's how it stands. So why don't we just be more rational and get a better schedule? So that's also something we're going to get with this. The same applies to offenders. The municipal state's attorneys about them later because it's a special law. So there are several exceptions to these rules as mentioned. The first thing you can't do is break over your knee because of the lack of funds. So, it's normal for us to predict that, say, criminally working in the seats of 1.1, but where we can't physically ensure that because we don't have a large enough building, we're going to be working up to conditions as it is now. For example, it will be very small, but I can give an example of where Metkovic will be. Metkovic, due to the border, will continue until we resolve the issue as a criminal. Because we simply can't get into a situation where we have to drive the defendants and witnesses across the border, etc., if it were just Dubrovnik. And that's how it's gonna stay. So there are exceptions. There are exceptions to the seat. One exception as we imagined was Krapina-Zagorska County where it would not be in the county headquarters but would be in Zlatar. Why? Why in the Zlatary Court Building there was a lot of money invested, a lot of money. And we actually do if we don't put a little bit of it in a stronger function, we don't need it. We absolutely don't need it. So that's why it would go up. The second reason is, the second exception is Velika Gorica, i.e. Zagreb County because we envisioned the separation of Zagreb south from the north. It means everything that's across the Sava River that makes it one judicial area. And now the question is whether you will then place it to be based in Gorica or to be headquarters in New Zagreb. Since Novi Zagreb is bigger, we predicted it would be the seat there. Citizens don't change anything, they'll still solve everything in Velika Gorica just write somewhere else. So it's some kind of principle division. We can talk about every area in particular. What I'd like to stress here is also fateful days. It is one practice that is good, which other countries also know, which we unfortunately do not apply to a sufficiently large scale. What does that mean? Just because of this poor development of Croatia, individual areas. You have a situation that there are great distances between cities and there are not enough objects to have a court. In that case, of course, there should be a certain amount of cases for that, a judge with a notary will come. It will take place on Mondays or Wednesdays or on Mondays, Wednesdays if necessary, will return to its home court and do something else. The citizens will get a favor where they need to, they will solve all their legal problems. No, they're actually gonna be better off than they are now and we're gonna get a more efficient system because we're not gonna keep someone somewhere to say there's one or two, one debate or two a day. We don't have any money for that. It'll have a full workload. And I repeat, citizens don't change anything. In fact, they're getting legal protection in an area where they don't have it right now. It's especially important for islands, especially it's important for less developed areas where there are no people and the spaces are huge. So that's what I'd like to say first and the rest I'll do through the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79216	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to replicas. The first one was Branko Vuksic. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79217	Dear Minister Milenic, I disagree with your claim, "The situation in the judiciary is no worse than in other segments of society.". Even if that were the case, let's just say that you're right but the judiciary can't be a mirror of society, it's not a theater, Shakespeare told the theatre that the theater is a mirror of society and the judiciary is certainly not. Judges must be more moral because they're coming, they're the last instance, they're the cream of society, they're those moral verticals they should be. They should be. So if the judiciary, as you said, let's let it go, I think it's worse, that it's much worse than you said then we really are like the former prime minister in bananas, in a box of bananas. Because if the judges are just as corrupt goods as the directors of public enterprises are, so how will the judge judge that director of the public firm. And that's right. Judges are just as bad as the bad segment of society. It means that in the judiciary, we need a reform of the justice system and that one... segment and these are judges and this is the way to choose, the way you progress and the way these judges need who are immoral or who don't work out of the game. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we don't, and I'm gonna say it on behalf of the club, we didn't do anything. Introducely, we agree with the reduction of courts, we agree with this reform but it is not a fundamental reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79218	Thank you. There's no answer. Next replica Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you spoke of even development, the availability of courts to citizens and what is most important to citizens. I think that maybe we should think a little bit about this even development and maybe figure out the possibility that not all of them are piled up and not grouped into one center, in a few centers, but maybe see the possibility that within the framework of the county courts there might not be a municipal court in the center where the county court is also that maybe there's another place where it could be. So that's how we think about it, because wherever you put some kind of bureaucratic to say hierarchy that end, that place is developing, those other places are going into another plan, and they're getting weaker and weaker, more powerless. Here's as clean as a suggestion. In principle, I must say that I am not satisfied with a part of the reform that abolishs the status of municipal courts, definitely in the middle, by cities where traditions are over 150 years old. And if I said I was satisfied with that, I'd speak against my own personal conviction. And now you haven't touched that part, but I'm going to use it here in the replica so maybe in the other part you can either comment on it or consider it. So, as the fact here is, according to this proposal, the crusader's court is moving, so to the district of the Belovar County Court, which is fine with us because it's available to us, more traffic-related. And that must be a good situation. That's the way it goes with it, so does the Criminal Court, but here it's about trade courts. I can see that's not what the proposal put in, even though the county gave it. I ask you to consider, however, that part is excluded in this article 5, and that part is being moved, people really have problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79220	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79221	Thank you very much. Every comment is welcome, or suggestion of that kind. We can consider it, I know about this, and I talked to the county about the problem of the Trade Court. As for these suspensions, that is to say, changes in the status of individual courts to become permanent services, although they existed in some area for a long time. Simply Croatia is not what it used to be, we no longer walk or I don't know how we go differently, the means of communication are different. But most importantly, we have to get through this and get rid of what's now our characteristic, that's feudalization. Because if you have a lot of small courts where you are actually someone who starts working at 28 years of age, he works until he's 70 if he doesn't go to a senior court. There's no way to move. Then you actually have a network that can never develop evenly. And you don't give service to citizens in the way that they rightly expect, because that led to you having 15 items somewhere, somewhere in 75. And then, but they're not, because the judges don't want to work, but they're just put in a position not to have objects, they have nothing to solve. So we have to go to this circle that actually enables us to mobility and people and objects in perspective. And that's what actually is one European trend, so not because it's a European trend so we have to follow it for that, but I think what's good right now can tell you in a whole series of examples how much we're going to get when part of the judges who are now dispersed in the area are doing criminally take over in one place. They won't even have to travel, they'll just cross over and work civicly. And that's what a man needs, he needs to get rid of his case faster, he'll get more judges on it. So that's why we went towards it. We can't go to that every municipality in one court anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79222	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79223	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, in principle, to reduce the number of presidents, municipal courts, etc., to rationalize. I don't think anyone's here in the assembly, nor in Croatia disputed. But there is something I simply don't understand. When you do things like this, you have to look at things traditionally. If you said that at this point you're no longer walking, he has to be watched traffic. And now I'm watching the County Court stays in Velika Gorica. However, I don't understand why they don't stay municipal and misdemeanor, because it's easier to come to people from New Zagreb to Velika Gorica, if they should already go than come from one end of Zagreb to another. But what's stuck in my eye is among other things that you're Long Village and St. Ivan Zelina and Brcovljane escaped from this part of Zagreb County, and Vrbovac, who is behind them, left you in this set. So I really don't see why in Gorica he couldn't remain the Municipal Court on the same principle as the County Court, as well as the Infringements. Zagreb County would be practically unique, and eventually the town of Velika Gorica is the sixth largest city in the Republic of Croatia. When we add those three municipalities around, practically with Zadar shares the fifth place, and Zagreb County is the second or third in the number of inhabitants, as well as the economic strength in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, by looking at all these and traditional and economic and quantitative if we talk about the number of inhabitants, we can even talk about the number of cases currently being handled in the municipal courts in Zagreb County, I think that the seat of both the Criminal Court and the Municipal Court in Velika Gorica has a thousand and one justification. I say especially if we're talking about this traffic section. Few cities in the Republic of Croatia are currently traffic-related, such as Velika Gorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79224	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79225	Thank you very much. I'm sure we'll talk more about Big Gorica, but just the introduction. The area of the County Court is significantly expanding, so Velika Gorica is actually becoming a judicial and stronger centre than it is now. Yeah, we're also planning to transfer this part's jump jurisdiction, so it's both one and one of the courts that, I'm talking about county. So he will cover a lot more inhabitants than he is now, than the Zagreb County itself, gets the whole of New Zagreb and spreads its jurisdiction and very likely in the perspective perhaps for the expected number of people. So, the Great Gorica with this is not placed in a subordinate position, yet it is legally becoming stronger than it is now. Now the question is, where are we going to put the record that it's the seat of the court? It is actually the only question, whether the board will be in New Zagreb or whether the panel will be in Velika Gorica. And that's what we're actually talking about because it's going to be a unique area where there's going to be a whole series of courts. If you agree, I think this mobility in the area is good. There's gonna be a punishment to be done in one place. Now I can tell you I already think Big Gore has a criminal judge. So these are your two citizens in the future more. You as a citizen will sooner resolve your changes only because of what we will put in one place. So, where will be the board we've imagined here in New Zagreb because it's bigger. But first reading, here we are. But it comes down to where we put the board. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79226	Thank you. And the last replica, Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, reorganizing the network of courts is quite fine. It is necessary to do so, although it is not a fundamental reform in terms of achieving the efficiency of the judiciary. However, what I find rather strange and surprising is that the local jurisdiction of the county courts is lifted. In fact, the question arises whether you have made simulations of the costs of the delivery of items to be determined and going from Međimurje to Dubrovnik to Dubrovnik Court? If it's some kind of computer that's going to determine. This, in my opinion, absolutely increases the cost of delivery, and it will be interesting how, for example, judges from Osijek or the County Court in Osijek will be able to handle the cases of the establishment of property rights from Zadar or Split in which there is still a need to break up the feudal farming relations that are quite present in courts, and should be, for example, deposed. and explain the foundation of acquiring ownership, for example, by a convict. So I'm just wondering how this is going to be nice to shorten the case-solving procedure in the county court?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79228	Thank you. Answer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79229	So it's not the subject of this law, it just gives the foundation. I can explain it very closely to you if you are interested, very detailedly therefore in certain frameworks. So, as far as delivery and prices are concerned, we are now paying 70 million kuna for delivery by post at an annual level. We will only with these judicial areas that is one question that I did not open to focus primarily on court delivery. So, part of the clerk that's going to be extra, and the surplus is, will switch to delivery jobs. We lose between 30% and 35% of the hearings just because you come to the hearing and then someone tells you it's not a neat call and you go home and then in a year they call you again. And it happens to us too often. So the court messenger will come to you and deliver to you, and he will not work in the mail. That's what we need an organization to do. And that's where we'll achieve the savings that will far exceed the cost you're talking about. So, the judiciary has... About what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You said he'd pick it up. ... Well, yeah, that's what I'm telling you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this savings at the post office here will far exceed the cost that will eventually be caused by the delivery of second-degree items in Croatia. Now let's talk about what got us into this. We were inspired by an example of Christmas cards where you had the rightful solution of a citizen one black and the other white. Where we are through 36 thousand delegations that we have seen that every county court has its own practice, and the matter cannot reach the Supreme and cannot be harmonised. And then you're a citizen and I and we have the same legal situation depending on whether we're lucky or not to have the case delegated to us, and the cases are now being delegated to 36 thousand cases now a year, we're going to get a different legal situation. Then let's make it go algorithmically, that there's no man. Then no lawyer can track where his case ended and then eventually ask if anyone there knows or doesn't know but the case will go where he goes, where he decides the software. And for real legal purposes, we'll deal with it, I'll tell you about it later. [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79230	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We'll start with the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79231	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers. As I said in the replica actually where I ended up there I'll start not to repeat myself. It seems to me that this is just one segment and it's about the technical segment of the judiciary, the reform of the judiciary that we haven't entered in deeply yet. The justice system is certainly wrongly set up in Croatia. We have a lot of judges, a lot of disputes and poor efficiency. Now you, Mr. Minister, have been talking about 70 to 80 million kunas being spent only on mail delivery, and then 30 million kunas are being spent on what's taking too long. It's only 100 million kuna, so if we count those 50 million kunas that we talked about yesterday that are being spent on the state sending calls to itself, look at that, it's already 150 million kunas that we've thrown into the wind or we're throwing into the wind or at least it was that. In Croatia it is 1880, before you spoke of judges about how many judges, 1880 judges or 43 judges per 100,000 residents, 43 judges. Ireland has 147 judges or 3.2 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. But unlike Ireland, we're 100% legal state, so it would turn out. We have a fantastic situation, citizens don't wait a month to settle their disputes. More judges in 100,000 inhabitants seem to me only Slovenia and 50 judges. Austria has a population of 100,000 18 judges. Austria, which is a legally regulated state, we have 43 judges, Austria 18. But I used to say that statistics are a lie, so here are the data that speak or give a different picture a little less to the harm of the judiciary, or judges and the judiciary themselves. Croatian judges do the work done in other countries by extrajudicial officials, largely. Thus, more than 400 misdemeanors in the Republic of Croatia in other countries would not be conducted in statistics under the judge's section. Which is actually astounding, and previously talked enough under the last item of the agenda about it, but it is also very important for the functioning of the entire judiciary and for this law that we are talking about, which is the proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of the Court. The annual budget for legal aid is among the lowest in Europe, if not the lowest. We had 230 thousand euros intended for help, for legal aid, 230 thousand euros. At the same time, Slovenia has almost 6 million, Bosnia and Herzegovina has 6m euros, Austria 18m euros, Ireland 87m euros and Norway 214m euros for legal aid, and we repeat 230 thousand and we dare say that those who combine ends with end, those who do not have enough for directorial costs, those who do not have enough for food, that they will have good legal assistance and a fair trial, that is a clean lie, that is a fraud. Despite the number of judges and the number of courts, the municipality is 67, county 15, commercial 7, administrative 4. The most missing in Croatia is the most common cause of non-investment in Croatia and that is legal certainty, i.e. legal uncertainty. We almost have judges and courts that we can, what you know is that saying around the houses, "Let's judge by house.", we have so many. And we have one of the greatest legal uncertainty. Croatia is also at the beginning of the European Union, preferably electronic communications in court proceedings. As Mr. Minister said earlier, the rationalisation of the network of courts began in 2008 and there were far more municipal courts in 108 and infringing 114 courts. However, there are still too many courts and therefore the Croatian Labour and Labour Party agrees with the reduction of the number of courts but they advocate, and this time I note so long as we do not discuss here days of fundamental problems in the judiciary, we will not take one step further or in society, there will be no foreign investment and we will not have an increase in GDP. We know well how many billions of kunas are trapped in courts because courts don't do their job or do their job well for those who want to keep these items in a drawer. Judges are that it is unevenly burdened, the court proceedings are marathon, as well as Minister Milenić, a desert debate after the death of a Croatian renowned painter lasts 20 years, 20 years until they robbed all his paintings, so long it takes, 20 years of a desert debate, it is a shame and someone else dares to say that the Croatian judiciary is not bad, 20 years? But it's not the only lonely case, there are processes that last 40 years, there are processes, working disputes that last 10 years, two contracts need to be made, a score of those two contracts made. And most interesting of all, the litigation can last forever, everything is measurable except the court dispute, everything is measured except what the judge needs to do. You are returning for the tenth time to the municipal court and no one is responsible for the wrong assessments, no one answers except what we have said 30 million kunas paid for too long of disputes, and that only means that 10% of the citizens do not sue the Republic of Croatia for having the right to sue. How many heirs should be given about the case they were talking about, means they're being tried for 20 years, how many of them they should from the Croatian state, so they're not guilty, it's the judicial system that's in desperate shape. It says within the law a reasonable time-limit, what is a reasonable time-limit? 20 years, 40 years, 10 years, what's a reasonable deadline for a work dispute for 10 years? Workers, međimurje, Međimurje construction firms long ago died, the construction company went bankrupt in 90th, their successors are being tried, 20 years are undergoing a process and now it is reportedly proposed a settlement to pay compensation in the next 15 years. This is embarrassing, it is your legal security of the Croatian state. And we are now wondering why they should not invest in Croatia? So who will invest in Croatia for 40 years? Money goes where there's legal certainty, not where workers have low wages, where workers are slaves it's a lie. Court practice is one of the most unequal, and now we need to ask ourselves whether our judges are so incompetent or are so working under the table. What it says is that there are 10% ministers and judges 10% or 50%, something about which we don't dare at the Croatian Parliament, we don't dare find a model to punish bad judges because there's no such thing. And the minister himself said earlier that the judges had mirrored society, he didn't say it in that dictionary, but that's exactly what he said, that like the other segments, and corruption is high in Croatia, so in the court of corruption, let's cut it out, let's not just cut down on the number of courts, judges, chiefs of courts and say now we've cut the wages now will out of these 84 judges, will be less, they will now do their jobs and we've saved up. We did save, but what about those billions that are trapped in the High Court, what about that money, I don't know how many kunas are captured because there are no disputes that need to be settled. Everything I've been saying says that the system is bad, that it needs to be changed but that it also needs to be changed to judges. We need fundamental changes in the justice system. We must not allow court proceedings to last without a deadline, so that it can be returned from court to court three times that the Supreme Court three times returns the case to the first step, I speak from personal experience and then two years after that stands in a drawer and no one touches. We got a good justice system? We don't. This is only one of the steps to be taken but it is one perhaps not entirely technical but one of the techniques that will not bring the good that should be done to the Croatian court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79232	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. The first one is Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, your colleague in your debate talked about everything and at least about the area and the courts' seats, but that's your right. So then I'll try some things or point to you for something you said, and one of the things is a comparison between the Croatian and Irish judicial systems and the number of judges in Croatia and Ireland. Let us compare with the countries we can compare with, not Ireland. Ireland is a common law system country in Ireland there is a jury trial, in Ireland the judge doesn't prove evidence, that makes it a jury, so the judge doesn't have to explain it. And let's not say that in Ireland judges don't do a whole series of things they do in Croatia, so before comparison, study the area with which you compare us. As far as comparison with Austria is concerned, we can and should talk about why some things in Austria work and not us, but don't ask Ireland. And secondly, you're talking about a reasonable deadline. The reasonable period of time shall not in practice be defined by a legislative act. The reasonable time limit shall be defined through the action of the courts and judges, depending on certain circumstances, determine what will be a reasonable time limit for litigation, family relations, etc. and this is a practice initiated by the European Court of Human Rights, interpreting the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which speaks of a reasonable period of time, and then, as the first, the Court of First Instance, which is a reasonable time-limit and then descends below to national courts. And as for working relationships, here is one example, however, where the legislator set a deadline in which these cases should be resolved but unfortunately not respected by the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79234	The answer of my colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79235	You have one habit you're entitled to, you like to teach, but you're not the one who actually wants to teach, you have to learn for yourself. Surely you won't tell me who you can compare to, Austria can't. This sounds very good, and it's not as incomparable as you're interpreting. With me saying that our judges do a lot of jobs that other judges don't do, and I emphasized it myself, that 400 judges in our country wouldn't be running at all and doing the jobs they do there in a non-judicial... So what are reasonable deadlines? You justify that the reasonable time limit is so flexible that it is not really known what a reasonable time period is for which we are then given before international courts of people who complain on an unreasonable date to receive disputes. Interestingly, you haven't commented, you're saying that I least talked about this because I think it's least important and I just said that this is one of the techniques that's not going to do any good because it's going to be the same judges, it's just going to be like a little better control. And you're going to bring all the laws just when you're going to leave power and then there's going to be another one that's going to change everything because you haven't brought it in the first six months. Therefore, the reasonable deadline, in Croatia, does not have a reasonable deadline. In Croatia, there is no respect for the definition of a reasonable deadline, and you know what's out there. Work disputes outside are being settled, which shows practice, within six months of working disputes. How long has it been for us, what's the reasonable time limit? I've had a court dispute for 10 years. You should sue the state 100 times.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79236	Time. Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79237	Thank you. Well, fellow Vuksic, you have found that we have a very high number of judges on the one hand and on the other hand that very little is set aside for the so-called so-called. Free legal aid. Well, of course it stands out when we have a lot of judges, so there's no need to stand out so much for free legal aid, you understand. I don't know how you got into such a contradiction. No joke aside. Of course, what's the structural problem? I don't think it's this form where there's going to be seats, what kind of network they're going to be, and that's probably the structural problem lying somewhere else, and those who've been dealing with it haven't been able to find the right answer to that question for years. Maybe one lies in the fact that the whole system is not arranged enough so too much and everything ends up in courts what if the rule of law didn't end up in courts at all, because we're not still a country that has a high crime rate, we're not a country that has a high degree of various things that difolt has to be in court. So some other things end up in a court that probably never would have ended up having the whole state working. But what I've said many times and what always impresses me is this event with Bernard Medofa, who was arrested in the United States on 11 December 2008 and 29 June 2009 sentenced to 150 years. So it took a total of 6 months from arrest to the moment of conviction for one of the largest financial spirals of malfeasance recorded in modern history, which was worth 50 billion dollars. How it happened and how that system in the U.S. works, I don't know. But it's called contented justice. Six months between the arrest and the verdict at 150 years. How can we do such a thing and in what way I really don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79238	Comrade Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79239	My colleague Đurović, now as a colleague of the coat of arms, I will give you... you cannot compare Croatia and the United States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia and the United States have different legal systems, I don't know if you know it. You know, probably. But exactly what you said is important, the important thing is that justice is served. 6 months for we can say one of the cases of the century, the process of the century in 6 months. In six months, they let him out of prison and... They've been holding a thief in prison for months so they can probably let him go and they don't know what to do with him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't know if they were supposed to arrest him, they shouldn't have detained him. We are, our judicial system is in catastrophic condition and I agree with you we have not talked about structural problems, nor are we talking about them, nor are we dealing with them, we are surrounding them, we are going around, we are kniting the net. Maybe Mr. Secretary is kniting the net, so we'll get to the point when we're going to talk about the essence. And the point is, things don't work out. And they don't get rid of each other, and that's the point. Watch out for 230 thousand euros for legal aid. Then tell us how much we give for legal aid and figure out how much we give. And what we don't have, we don't have a high crime rate like you said, but we have a high rate of economic crime. When I asked a police officer who deals with economic crime investigations as much as in public enterprises people who work there and who are at the source of how much he steals. Well, everybody who's interested in it. The only one who doesn't care about money doesn't steal it. That's the situation and we close our eyes first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79240	A new replica, respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79241	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vuksic, seems to me that you have referred most of the criticism of the situation in the judiciary to judges. I wouldn't agree with that. I think that in Croatia certainly in every social segment is progress year by year. But let's go backwards in one way, and that's human behavior. And there's the biggest problem. When you compare with Austria, you should compare how many per 100,000 people in Austria are struck by an ashtray by another person in cafes, how much he steals a wheel at 100 grand, how many cars he steals, how many home invasions he has, how many work disputes he has, how much red light he passes, how much he doesn't pay for the alimony, how much he doesn't pay for the goods, how much he takes an advance, how much he doesn't deliver the goods. And in fact, then we transfer all these behavioral problems to judges. It seems to me that the judges, regardless of their still problematic deadlines and individual behaviours, are the best part of the Croatian judiciary. And I still trust judges the most in the judiciary because they've made the biggest move. But it's far from ideal, but I think the biggest shift was made by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79242	Reply Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79243	Dear colleague Maric, now what you've been saying you've fallen into the trap yourself that you've made. What's the cause and what's the consequence? In Germany, after World War II, judicial reform was foreseen for four years, and eight and ten years of judicial reform lasted. It's just to get to the fact that there's no stealing, that wheels don't steal, that there are no ashtrays. The judicial system is, its function is in this and that it works preventively. It would be a different situation in Croatia if the courts worked. I completely disagree with you in this case, which is rare that we disagree. We think that, I speak from many examples, I don't speak abstractly. Why aren't the alimony being paid? Well, because the courts allow it. If we closed three, four people per five years of law, no one would ever do it again, he'd pay a month in advance. He paid upfront alimony for a month so he wouldn't make a mistake. So, it's not that, how is it that when our citizens come out to Austria, they act completely different? How come when we get to the Slovenian border we cut to 120, turn on the lights, drive decently, tie ourselves up, when we get there we unbutton the belt, turn off the lights and drive it 200. Why? So we know we're not going to punish him, because they know everyone has a relationship because when we get to court, we'll explain that we're not guilty and we won't be guilty and everything will go out of date. I think the guilt is right there. And the judges are supposed to be above us. They're above society, they're the ones who are in the end. When he loses all hope, then the judge comes to you, he can't be equal to anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79244	Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79245	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vuksic said something like Labourists agree with a reduction in the number of courts. So here I have to replicate and say that I don't agree with such a finding because in the end, according to this proposal, the number of operating part of the courts is not reduced, so the service will stay, they will work but the message is not good that is being sent. I think that you should definitely think carefully, consider whether the message of abolishing courts as some kind of status is a real message, or whether the message is really in the part that you're talking about right now because I agree that we need to improve the functionality of the courts, the right message. Anyway, here I am in no way agreeing with your finding that you support a reduction in the number of courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79246	Reply Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79247	A very short colleague, Hrg. I disagree that we agree, this time we think differently and that's good. We think we have too many courts, we have too many judges, and we're too inefficient in all of that. When defending both the territorial structure and defending the formation of courts and courts' seats, it is absolutely certain to go from the motives of local patriotism. And I, as head of the local community, fully understand you as mayor. However, even if I were you, I'd say the same thing because I'm getting pucks in my own party because I'm saying we have too many counties, cities and municipalities. And then they asked me how I would vote it if, because every county said, because if I let politicians determine the number of counties and we agreed there would be 47 of them, and cities would be twice as many as there are today, cities because each is historically important. And I couldn't agree more. However, when the Danes had a reform of local self-government, they looked much wider and today all the Danes are more satisfied. And those who have lost units of local self-government. But we're gonna have a fight, and that's the same thing with court seats. I think we should start with something. I think these are supposed to be techniques that are likely to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79248	Replica Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Vuksic, I came to the most for the reason that several times you stated that one of the reasons for the length of the court's proceedings is the multiple abolition of the first-degree verdicts. I would remind you that we have made and amended the legislation in the sense that only once a first-degree ruling can now be abolished, and after that, if, by the second trial, the County Courts have to rule the matter. Therefore, just as we have been on track for several years to solve the great pain of court's impunity, so that part of the law has changed. The way we've changed the legislation that we've removed the executives from the courts, that we've assigned the hermits to public notebooks. This was all about discharging the courts because, of course, the most painful long-term procedure. To keep this procedure as brief as possible is this reorganization of the courts. You will agree with me even though you did not work in the judiciary that one judge who has 600 cases and that judge who has 90 cases cannot possibly be equally up-to-date. That judge who has 600 cases until only one hearing is scheduled to take place for almost 7.8 months to have another debate, and of course it is very much delaying court proceedings. Therefore, this reorganisation is certainly on track for a more effective trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79250	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79251	Dear colleagues Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić, we have supported as a club so far it seems to me all the laws of the ministry and we have said every time we debated that this is a visible progress. But you know very well that when it comes to the case that if it started with me, if I started a lawsuit 10 years ago, it wasn't worth this new law to me. I'm not a lawyer, but then judges don't work by, then they don't do judges, they don't respect your laws because they go back, then they don't respect the laws, they don't respect the Supreme Court. Then give me control, then I'm even more right, then I don't know who or why anymore. I mean, it's not this, court practice is catastrophic. And if now, if it really has to be applied in the old case, a new law, and it doesn't apply to ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79252	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club of independents, Damir Cain signed up. He's gone. He's losing his right to this club for debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Here's to starting removing possible doubts. The SDP advocates' club will support this bill. The surprise, but it's not just that, it's not because it's a proposal from the government and the minister that we normally support, but also from the fact that this is a really good proposal. The minister spoke a little bit about it at first, but it should be pointed out once more. The passing of this law was preceded by an extremely broad public debate. The procedure for the adoption of this law includes all entities which could in any way be concerned by this law. The minister presented it indeed throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Parliamentary Committee on Justice has twice considered reforming this law, that is, this reform proposed by law, and in the meantime there have been some changes, and these changes have been precisely the fruit of the debate that has been carried out. And we today have a round, good bill that I'm sure will lead to a knowledge of rationalization and improvement of the quality of the work of the courts. And to explain why I think I'm going to start with a situation that was 10 years ago when I started working as a lawyer. In 2003 in the area of the court, the County Court in Pula where I went to the debate there was a whole series so we can also call them micro-judgments, courts that once had only one judge. In those courts, the same judge would have tried civil cases in the morning, would have dealt with the conduct and land-booking matters around noon to close his day with a criminal case. What was the quality of such a trial? It's a little girl. Because simply no person can be equally quality in the field of civil, executive, land-based or criminal law. And what caused this situation? For the reason that at one point in Croatia we had the belief that the availability of justice means that we must have one court in every village. Simply the courts spread like mushrooms after the rain, regardless of whether we had secured material conditions for the operation of such a court or humane conditions. So we had courts that tried criminal cases, and they couldn't form a council. And why is that? Because they didn't have four judges. Is that the judiciary? It's not. Is that available to the judiciary? It's not. Because the available judiciary, whether in your place or in your place, is 10, 15 or 20 minutes away, is just that of a court that is impartial, so equally to everyone, independently, who judges legally and who makes quality decisions. And then it really doesn't matter anymore whether the seat of the court in Pula, Poreč or Rovinj is because we have a court that fulfills its task and fulfils what is set before it by the Constitution and by the laws. When we talk about the courts in Croatia, it is indeed true what has already been pointed out here in the debate, which is that there is a problem. One of those problems is a large number of judges. We do have a large number of judges, but not when we compare it to Ireland because it is beyond any sense but when we compare the number of judges with the countries that are in our environment and that have a similar legal system as ours. It's similar to the fact that we literally copied some of our laws from them. I'm talking about Austria, I'm talking about Germany. The fact is that Slovenia alone has more judges than we do. And the fact is, with this vast number of judges, we're barely able to solve the cases that are coming. And so we have to ask ourselves what we do. One of the measures is rationalization. The rationalization of the number and network of courts. But it's not a measure this government invented, it's a measure that started in 2008 and it's a measure that everyone supported until the measure affected their city. It's something both former and current justice ministers met with. They're all for until the court is touched in their town. We have to go through this kind of feudalism and thinking about our unit of local self-government. And we need to see what is the system that is good for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to go back to the micro-courage system for us again. It's not good for us. And that's what the practice has shown, not good. He wasn't doing his homework. I don't have to tell you the quality or unquality of decisions of such courts, how often decisions of such courts fall to senior courts at second degree. That's not what citizens need. This law takes a significant step in rationalising and, as a consequence of this rationalisation, increasing the quality and speed of the work of the courts. So, first of all, we get a new network without those little courts. We're getting a new network that will be dominated by large courts that will then be able to form both a family department and a working department and a criminal department. Courts in which specialised judges who understand the subject before them can make decisions much faster and better. That's the new value our citizens are getting. Here it was said, even though it's actually when we sum everything up less, that we're going to get a certain cost reduction through the fact that we're going to have a smaller number of court presidents. That's true, but in all of this it's less important. The material resources of the courts will be better exploited and, as the minister pointed out in the areas of certain municipal and criminal courts, a re-distribution of judges will be possible in line with the inflow and volume of cases. What is particularly important is the issue of unifying the jurisdiction of all county courts and spreading it throughout the Republic of Croatia. The minister pointed out the example of Christmas, and I have to get him out again because he's the most logistic example. For example, courts in Pula or Rijeka would tell you that you have the right to this Christmas certificate, and if you had an accident to judge in Zagreb, you would not be allowed the same right from the same legal relationship. And why is that? Because we have such a division that every county court has created its own practice and in those cases that cannot come before the Supreme Court I'll be rude so I'll say they don't care what their other colleagues think. This solution proposed by this law will do so. All courts in the Republic of Croatia will judge all cases. What's the problem? Well, the law is the same everywhere, or at least it should be. However, I will be free here and I will propose two concrete measures that the ministry, in my opinion, should consider in the future and concerning the reform of our entire judiciary and with a specific reform or rationalisation of the work of the courts. And that's a matter of special criminal courts and commercial courts. I'm going to ask if we need special criminal and special commercial courts especially now in a situation where we are going to unite municipal courts or what in some other countries is much more properly called basic courts? I believe that in the long run, it would be more than useful for the criminal and commercial courts to be joined by municipal courts. Why? In this way, it would be possible for judges who are today in criminal courts to be tried in criminal matters if there is a need and the same thing would happen to commercial courts. Moreover, what is known to be the High Court of Commerce today is one of the courts that has been making the slowest decisions and is not rare, but it is more a practice for you to wait 4 or 5 years for the decisions of the High Court of Commerce, that is not justice. In addition, certain measures taken in connection with the infringement have led to a reduction in the number of cases and an increase in charges, which therefore means that the infringement courts in the future will not be burdened as they have been so far, which then certainly speaks in favour of their merger. It should also be recalled in respect of commercial courts that a few years ago we made a reform that led to the fact that trade courts received certain items which were traded only by name because they were cases between two legal entities and not according to their content. I will finish here and say that I consider this a good proposal, one very good step in order to rationalise which will bring considerable benefits to Croatian citizens in the short and long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79254	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79255	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms I would refer to only this part of your presentation in which you spoke about rationalising reform law. I wouldn't point out that it's actually a crucial moment to cut costs, but simply to look at everyone together that we need this kind of system that we've had so far, rationalize. What has always been a problem so far, and this is a question of when there has been a realisation, that is, a reform law, a question of local self-government leaders who then considered their political prestige to in some way retain a municipal court or another in their place regardless of how small or large it may be. However, we are talking here today about another time where availability is actually a general phenomenon, you are no longer travelling to a court by carriage or by foot, but you have modern means of transport that can easily reach the place of the court. It is also necessary to take down that fama that, where local self-government leaders like to point out that their citizens cannot now exercise their constitutional right. But that turns out to be the only thing citizens do is stay in courts. However, how many in the life of an average man are we going to court? Very, very rarely and should not be enslaved at such a time, in fact, that every leader of local self-government, that every unit of local self-government must have the seat of the court. I say that as a mayor without any fences or any fear of having problems with my fellow citizens who think differently, but we simply have to be rational in implementing these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79256	Time. The replica matches the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bilic, you're right. The fact is that there are certain services that citizens must be available in the sense that they are located in a place where they live, in a place where they live. When we talk about such services, then in one part of the judicial activity, we have to talk about the garter, we have to talk about the cataster. These are bodies that must be physically close to the citizens because that is the nature of their work. But we need to take as many measures as possible, first of all, so that citizens don't even need to come to court. For example, here's another measure that we can propose to our ministry is one that is prescribed for example. The European Union, which is that the procedures of small value are purely written. The European Union prescribes that small-value disputes in Croatia up to 10 thousand kuna at the European Union level of up to 15 thousand, and are now proposed to reach up to 75 thousand kuna, to be written. And then citizens have no need to come to court at all, then they don't care if the court is in Pula or in Zagreb. It's another measure that would help to reduce that pressure. And lastly, this was from you, but also from the minister was quite brave because all these years since 2008, so until today when it came to rationalization, it was practically, it was some sort of event of the people to protect the court in someone's place, regardless of what if I as a lawyer talked to people from that place, everyone had only criticism at the expense of the work of that court and always said, "E when there's only one judge and there's always one judge in the same way." But when it comes to taking an open stand, then we go back to what I can do for reform, but not in my place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79258	The second line is the esteemed Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79259	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow coat of arms in one piece you said what I and agree with you, it was also a previous discussion that there were a lot of judges, but you pulled the parallel one with the fact that judges should judge, be specialized in a way rather than different, have different disputes in their fields. But there's something else we have to point out here, and that's the question that judges are judging by the law. If we sometimes have bad laws, unsettled laws, we sometimes have bad court practice and therefore, if there is a very frequent change of law, and it is a practice and it is a very bad practice for us in Croatia. We have laws that are passed and then in six months they change and then in six months we have other changes, then we ask a certain question of this case law and consistency but also ways that judges can be very difficult to specialize in until the end when we speak in some kind of case practice that should apply in Croatia. And this is part of the observation that when going into certain legislative changes then we should not be doing exactly what we are doing and this House that adopts laws very often hastily without some fundamental consideration of a particular area and the adoption of laws that would often not change but that there is some more stable practice of law in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79260	The esteemed Peja Grbin will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, specializing in the trial isn't something new. For years, there has always been a division of those judges who will judge civil and criminal cases. Rarely, when the same judge judges a civil and criminal case for what it is, and let's face it, it takes a different knowledge and in assessing evidence, an examination of witnesses and a different view of the situation. But there was a problem with many of those small courts. Look, you're having the same judge in the morning debate in a civil case, afternoon in the penitentiary, and then he makes you an absolute breach of the procedure for which the verdict falls without even entering the scale of the matter. And why is that? Because it applies the Institute of Civil Procedural Rights to criminal proceedings. We have to avoid that. And I really agree that we too often change laws and we can't run away from it, that's the fact that we have to state and that's really the responsibility that lies with all of us, and we're going to have to deal with it. But the end of all of this to a judge who specializes in a particular area is much easier to monitor all these changes if he concentrates on only one area, not to be again what we say to the judge of general practice. Here we are talking especially about judges who specialize in labour law and judges who specialize in family law, who, with all their expertise, should have some special affinities. And these are the things that we have to think long-term about because it's not the same thing to judge a family matter and decide who you're going to assign a child to to to guard and raise and judge in a trade case and decide who you're going to assign 100, 200 or 300 thousand kuna to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79262	With the positions of the HDZ Club, we will be introduced to the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79263	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe like this in the Peje Grbin style to say that we remove any doubt there is a possibility that the HDZ club will also support this law. There's something in that statement, but I believe that since we're going into two readings and that one of ours, it can be translated into the corresponding text of this law. We will not talk about this law from some personal frustrations, the length of the trial, personal experiences in cases that have been brought before the court, we will try to be constructive, correct and point out what we think is good and not too much talk beyond what this law says. We've heard stories today about judicial specialization, about small courts, about different kinds of courts, about the harm that we may have not united the debate and about the state's attorney's offices as we did on the Justice Committee, it's a similar topic, but maybe here I'll speak a little bit of it in defense of the judicial profession because we seem to have incorrectly started this debate on the court's seats where further rationalization is going. Usually each rationalisation ends with new costs and an even greater number of people, and this remains whether there will also be a case with a more rational network of all courts of regular courts in the Republic of Croatia. However, what many have failed to say is that they are comparing themselves with foreign countries, it is a fact that you cannot only take into account the number of judges in the number of inhabitants, the number of courts, whether the basic, municipal, countyal, whatever you want, while forgetting the constant Croatian legislation, the hyperproduction of the rules in the Republic of Croatia that these judges need to deal with, which they must meet, which they must apply and often lose sight of and the jurisdiction of our courts why they are all competent and which all cases our courts deal with, and often these examples of other countries are not adequate. Because some of the litigation that's being held with us isn't even cases of litigation in those countries that we take for comparison. But let's get back to the subject. The minister said there remained 15 county courts, such as in Croatia unfortunately the practice is always a network of courts as well as the number of municipalities and cities as a result of political influences or political agreements, political forces to fight for what you consider to be your legitimate interest. So is the network of courts as we heard it was done according to certain statistics where the number of cases would be evened by a particular judge, where it would be obtained on an up-to-date basis. Too bad we may not have information here about how much the Republic of Croatia pays annually for a reasonable trial. Or even better yet, how many of the MPs' offices in front of the European Court of Human Rights have managed to avoid paying fines for all those disputes that have already been brought before that court. So we have to believe that this network is more logical, better and rational. And we realized that this text was in some way agreed or at least presented to the holders of judicial duties, to the judiciary, to all those involved in the trial and in a way that was the result of both agreements and understanding of all those in the judicial apparatus. What we only disagree with because we think that in this text of the law it does not meet the criteria of which the minister spoke the fact that the municipal court in Velika Gorica in the 6th city by population in the Republic of Croatia may actually sound harshly becoming a victim of a different organisation of the Municipal Court in Zagreb which now exists the Municipal Court of the North and the Municipal Court of the South, and then because of this Municipal Court of the South in some way what was the area of the municipal court in Velika Gorica becomes the subject of this Municipal Court of Zagreb south. Namely, Gorica continues to retain the County Court as far as we can see. County, Zagreb County retains the County Court. At the same time, he loses the only Municipal Court and it is only likely because of certain compromises in order to adequately appoint the Municipal Court in Zagreb. In view of the number of cases, the number of judges and the size of the area covered by the Municipality Court in Velika Gorica, we think that those criteria applied to the decision that municipal courts will remain also apply to the municipal court in Velika Gorica and that there was no serious reason to, let's say the municipal court take Velika Gorica and associate with the municipal court in Zagreb in some way. It is an objection, we have two readings, given the whole network that is set up to believe that the ministry can think about our proposal and that we have of course and time to act through the parliamentary debate and in the second reading that you can consider that the City Court in Velika has reason to stay where it has been and continue to work as it has been resolved so far. What might be a bigger problem is this fact that we haven't been able to disburse the courts of anything that shouldn't be the case of court proceedings. Among other things, I'm going to say maybe one example provides the conditions of material conditions for the work of the courts. It is well known that for 40 years the County Court in Zagreb has, for example, a department, a civil department, so judges of the County Court in Zagreb, but as far as I'm concerned, they don't have accommodation facilities or places for adequate work, so it's often known that they work at home, they usually come only to debate or dictate judgments, everything else is done at home. If it has already gone into such rationalization, I believe that one of the results can then be the creation of real spatial and material conditions for our courts to work in a satisfactory way regardless of these criticisms that we have heard from other colleagues. Here, at the shortest I think it would be good for the illustration to at least until the second reading to present the costs that occur in front of the Republic of Croatia in view of this principle of trial within a reasonable period, I think that you may have these data, you can process that existing number of cases that may give special importance to that Office of Representatives before the European Court. And here is a proposal to continue with its work in this network, rationalisation or reorganisation of courts in Velika Gorica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79264	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First dear Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79265	I thank my colleague, Mlakar, you have opened the issue of trial before the European Court of Human Rights, so you have asked for certain information. Let me just say what the situation is. Of the 47 Member States of the Council of the European Union whose citizens have the right to request the assistance of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Croatia has risen to 3rd place at the moment as a beneficiary of this possibility. Therefore, Croatian citizens are seeking justice before that court more often than the citizens of Albania and of the citizens of Ukraine and of the citizens of Turkey, Russia, BiH etc. In the past year, out of 65,000 cases in Croatia were about a thousand 912 cases, so somewhere around 3% of the total number of cases in Strasbourg are cases from the Republic of Croatia and mainly related to complaints for fair trial and complaints for trial within a reasonable time. In money, in the process of implementing these judgments, this meant a burden of 326 000 euros for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is 70% higher than in the previous period. Here's some data if you asked, I happen to have them here by my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79266	Answer, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79267	Here I thank you even though I expected the government to respond eventually, but we even left time until the second reading. I don't have to thank my colleagues to Horvato right now, but it wasn't the point. You were talking about the price Croatia has so far paid for losing the disputes for the trial within a reasonable period and another case you were talking about. However, the point is that it is necessary to see what was the total request for payment of the fine for, or compensation for, a reasonable period of time. One part of the one you haven't talked about, which seems to me a much bigger part is what the office managed to fight that the Republic of Croatia would not be responsible for this trial, which means that this court has somehow saved Croatia a much larger amount than what Croatia lost due to the trial within a reasonable time. That's the information we should have to understand and the importance of that office and the work he's doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79268	Second replica, esteemed Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79269	In 2010, a colleague, Mlakar, made about 60 million kunas out of the state budget for disputes that last beyond a certain deadline. But what you need to say, which is a data that very few people know, is that deposited funds that are blocked due to various disputes and somewhere at 800, 900 million kuna. So that points to something else. These are the funds that were seized by various court disputes and they are simply dead. The interest the Justice Department receives is small on how much their economic effect is, but the figures are certainly not negligible because maybe even of these 800 million funds blocked we'll pay tomorrow if the courts don't work on time. Maybe it'll be part of this 60 million. However, what I must look back on, and also about when I spoke, when I replicated the minister, is certainly a situation with the Municipal Court and the Criminal Court in Velika Gorica. It doesn't really matter where the board stands. Look, Zagreb County has its own tradition and Velika Gorica and Samobor, first of all, as the two largest cities, as well as these smaller and Ivanić City and Vrbovec, as well as Zaprešić. And it doesn't matter to them whether the board is going to stand somewhere in Zagreb, it doesn't matter to them at all. It's important to them to do that part of the story. But let's turn these 60 million into buildings and computers that judges have quality means to work. Well, you know, it's practically every year we make a smaller municipal court for these 60 million we pay for not being efficient. And when we take how much of it we pay from the state budget. This is not a criticism at the expense of the judiciary directly that we understand each other, but how much we pay for it then we would see how much we can do about it in Croatia. But I say these 800 million deposited and blocked funds are certainly one terrible figure that for a small Croatia is terribly important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79270	The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79271	So, I wasn't talking about the financial aspect, I left it to the experts. What it was if you want and the appeal that all the data, indicators on the work of municipal courts give the right for Velika Gorica to have a municipal court team more than it is the only court then in Zagreb County. And Velika Gorica, by its numbering, or by its population, the area that covers the perfectly safe and number of cases that were in the Municipal Court meets all the criteria. I am sure that if we went to compare the Municipal Court in Velika Gorica with some of the municipal courts that remained there to find a lot of criteria that could be applied. By the way, which of the Great Gore goes in favor. So I'm also taking this opportunity to suggest that by the second reading, at least it's not to think about destroying the network if one court gets rid of what's been proposed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79272	Minister Orsat Milenic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79273	Thank you very much. So, just a few reviews. So, I'd say this, I'm not going to go in at all as before the network change. But it is certain that there was no political criterion here and you can see it because it is the same for all of us. No, but it was, I think it was said that it was always done politically, etc. So I'm saying, no, it really wasn't. I mean you can look at it, it's like that. There was a political criterion in the sense of policymaking. It means that after all, we decided to leave Gospić because the population is rarely populated and it is okay to stay, yes, and it is from that kind, but not politically as it was alluded to. One of the problems that exists is certainly a poor spatial disaster in some places worse spatial conditions. You mentioned the Zagreb Civil Court, that is, the Zagreb County Court. He's absolutely not the only one. One of the problems that we've had so far, and that's why we need a vision of the network through this so we just know where we're going and what we're going to invest in. Here I can tell you specifically here that we are running with this and that the next year, let's say, the reshuffle of the court in Karlovac will be complete, the entire building means both County and Municipal. Why? Because now we can get into the fund, it'll be one Norwegian and they've already accepted it. It's like, it's a network, it's developing. That's why we're going to finance the renovation. Zagreb, Zagreb is generally resolved. We, meanwhile, managed to secure a few hundred squares by moving the ministry for, part went to the Commercial Court, part of the County. It has already been used commercially, so a permanent service could be moved from Sisak. The county space will be redecorated. That's a couple hundred squares. It's not enough, but a couple hundred squares. You said yourself in 40 years isn't that old, so that's it. But there's not enough movement. So, it's important to us, I won't do it at all, and I've always avoided it because we can always tell each other what happened four years ago, six years ago, 10 rational this, irrationally what, we opened this building or that building, that doesn't matter. But we can all agree, all together, that we have, that so far and utterly irrationally invested what little money we had. So somewhere we built vessels that were abandoned after a few years. I mentioned county in Zlatar, he never had the subject to justify his existence. And now we have a grand building, if it had been invested in the county in Zagreb, it would have been resolved. We didn't. Well, but it doesn't matter. That's what it is, we need to use buildings where they are now. So Gorica is not the only exception, the exception is up Krapina-Zagor County. Up there means it's not a seat in Krapina but in Zlatar because the building is better. So, Gorica is not the only one. There remains a dilemma, yes, will you say that Novi Zagreb is the permanent service of Velika Gorica or will you say that all courts are the permanent service of Zagreb south? That's both. However, what is important is that we increase this judicial area that is actually represented by the county court significantly. We increase it by nearly 200,000 inhabitants and extend its jurisdiction. It receives some responsibilities which are now in Zagreb, go to Velika Gorica, do not go from Velika Gorica to Zagreb. I told you we're thinking of increasing the USCOC jurisdiction. I mean, that's something if you want where we're actually looking for a resonation of existence and the County Court in Velika Gorica. If we're already talking about the data, you know that in the first degree, if there are 10 cases this year, there will be a lot in Velika Gorica in the county. So the question arises if we don't extend his jurisdiction with New Zagreb what remains? So, that's what I'm saying, that's one... But then they don't need a county court. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I mean, do you understand? But we'll talk about it, it's for two readings. What is also said is a key reduction in the inflow and discharge of judges. They've been through this House a whole series of laws, and you know the ZPP that we've moved some things away from multiple terminations. You know we've reduced 27% of the cases in the offenders, and it's still shrinking. You know that now through the court fees, we've actually relieved the judges to deal with it, so we're free. However, there is one constant with us, unfortunately, that we are falling down what is called... So, solving what's coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what's our problem. So, we're unloading, we're removing from the commercials, and the merchants are solving fewer objects than before. Not because it's an inflow, the tide's bigger, but it's generally being solved less by the judge. And these are some kind of systematic thing that I agree with, and here it's said that we need to talk and change. This is just a small segment of it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79274	The esteemed Ivan Shuker came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79275	Thank you very much. This is good, Mr. Minister, when we all talk a little bit differently, but basically we all want to do something. But there's something that's in the administration specific and that maybe we're all forgetting, that so-called. The authority of the administration. Unfortunately for political reasons, we are tearing down the institutions of this country, which is not good. It's better to have something to build something better than something to crash and live in chaos. And why am I speaking with all these arguments that I was saying about Big Gorica? So, this court of Zagreb south authoritatively does not mean almost nothing to anyone, but when you tell the County Court in Velika Gorica because it is an authentic area it has a certain strength and a very different meaning. So, you said it doesn't matter whether the board is here or there, but looking at perceptional and looking at a number of other reasons that can achieve positive effects then that board might ultimately produce some positive effect. So, I'm talking about it. And I think we're talking about the same thing here all the time. And he didn't even think about this political reason at all, because if a man goes into one serious... Then it's just something he has to throw away if he wants to do a good job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if it's going to be managed then it's a job that's originally doomed and ultimately both debates and replicas of HDZ club members are heading in that direction. So these are just certain hints, certain things that we think might be better because ask God in 5 or 10 years' time how this network is going to work. Because you never do anything for eternal, certain things in life simply make a man change something. Now the question is raised at this moment precisely because of this authoritative action and table that has a certain power at some point, and also because of the reform of the state administration, perhaps this particular board will give some power to make things better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79276	Orsat Milenic, minister, answers to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79277	Thank you. You started replicating me immediately to my first presentation and I actually already opened this up and then we're gonna talk because it's two readings. So we'll sit down, we'll talk. It's possible both. We think, I can explain why we think this is better, but I'm ready, I've also been to Velika Gorica, talked to the mayor, talked to the representatives of the judicial authority down there. We opened that question we did, I left it open to talk further. So I'm saying, the ministry's position is that this is better, but I'm letting it talk to each other in an argument and convince us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79278	In the name of the HDSSB club, the esteemed Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79279	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates. We know that you have visited all of Croatia right now in search of a solution and in connection with this legislative proposal on areas and courts' seats. We know that you have held talks with those who are primarily in charge and who work in the judiciary in each of the county, in county courts, in municipal courts and that you have received a full one opinion in each of these to tell the region, the county about the situation in the Croatian judiciary and how to propose and write this legislative proposal. I know for a fact that there is no politics in this bill. I also know your intentions, and we know that we are simply rationalizing the network of courts, and yet all the courts that are mentioned here are available to Croatian citizens. We also know that this is an attempt to save a certain amount of funds in terms of rationalisation but also to reduce the number or amount of money that Croatia is giving for trial due to an unreasonable period of trial, i.e. at a court in Strasbourg, but also to allocate less money because of a dislocated trial or as it is said, of a delegated trial in other cities such as. Because of the Court's congestion in Slavonski brod, the municipal court has delegated cases or files to Đakovo, and even at the Palace of Justice in Zagreb, in Požeg which is less burdened, so many cases have been resolved. So that parties, lawyers and all those involved in this case travel to Djakovo, clearly with payment, each has the right to compensation for travel expenses, for the daily or for what. And with all this clear when you're staying in a town for an hour, two, three, four, then there's the possibility that you can consume anything in that city, clearly you can't be hungry and thirsty on some kind of road. So then there was one to say raising the costs of the trial precisely because of the dislocation, so I would say it medically, you say delegations to other courts, delegations. At the European Court of Human Rights, I have previously asked you a written question which you have also answered in written terms how much Croatia pays for the trial within an unreasonable time period, it is millions of amounts, not in kunas but in euro, which is a significant item. And here we have heard here today that if all those who have reason to endure, and out of or out of laziness or ignorance etc. If they filed lawsuits against this European Court of Human Rights then these cases might be several times higher and the amount the Croatian State would pay for it, because of the trial in an unreasonable, exceptional or extremely long time period, these amounts would be far greater and this would indeed be a worrying figure. I don't think again on the other hand that the new network of courts will stimulate or be something new that would boost efficiency in the judiciary. Thus, the network of courts itself is not the one that will improve, so it will not improve a crucial, efficient and fair trial. So it's just a network of courts. What a colleague here said to the Croatian judges would not agree that so much, not to say dirt on them and so much stain on the Croatian judges, but that our behavior in relation to what someone here said when compared the number of judges in Austria, Ireland, come on and Slovenia is listed and the number of judges in Croatia that if we were to review the court records of our criminal courts then we would see what all people are complaining about. It's amazing, it's so many of those criminal records that it's just, I don't know, of those, someone said here to the ashtrays like we're the country hitting ashtrays on the head or I don't know what it's all about, like it's the main problem of the whole country. From people fighting for parking and going to a misdemeanor and a number of other things that actually fall into some kind of lower level of trial where maybe someone could handle it and not hire a judge. So then this number of our judges, given our behavior, our habits, our habits, our behaviors that we show in society all together. In fact, from 43 judges to 100,000 residents, and when we consider that there are also offenders, maybe it's not that big, maybe it's not that big. In Slovenia, 50 judges per 100,000 inhabitants say, and Austria, respectively, is the successor of Austria and Austria's orderly state since ancient times, of the Habsburgs there are 18 judges. I hope that if we last as long as the Habsburgs, as long as they did, we too will bring that number down to about 20 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Since we are reducing the number of inhabitants and perhaps having a hard time achieving that number, judges remain the same and population declines more and more. But that's unfortunately our destiny. But what concerns me in particular is that in some media, but also in public, or publicly speaking about it, and instead of saying certain people, not everyone thank you God in the judiciary mainly when it comes to certain criminal acts in terms of corruption, etc. And that there are certain benefits in the judiciary then, but that's what I do since I don't have personal solid evidence and I wouldn't talk about it, but there are certain indications. Politics, justice, big fish, corruption, etc. This continues in the Croatian state in addition to what we expected to change the government, etc. Those who have corrupt themselves most in the former government are here and ended up in court and in court which really when we look at that process for a very long, long time, and who knows how and when it will end, and who knows when and who knows where a song says so. The very network of courts referred to here in this legislative proposal consists or contains, consisting of 15 county courts, of 23 municipal courts and 21 criminal courts, and we have more, trade courts and administrative courts. Commercial courts, there is one single change, this is Pazin, and otherwise it exists in Bjelovar, Osijek, said Pazin for the Istrian County area, before it belonged to Rijeka in the former network. I must, then in Split, Varazdin, Zadar and Zagreb. I must point out that the former government, too, seems to me during Jadranka Kosor, and not Prime Minister Sanader, has also been working on a new network of courts, as this was so determined in negotiations with the EU to rationalise the judiciary and to reform the judiciary. The very network of courts, for her, is even questionable whether it is the beginning of judicial reform, it is only a network of courts. And the reform of the judiciary in terms of what I was talking about, if there were certain patterns that might need to be broken, there might be a real structural reform of the judiciary, there might be something more, but a bigger bite. The courts of the municipality were also spoken of in your... as it were said, in Croatia. It was also about the abolition of the municipal court in Slavonski Brod and that the municipal court would be in Požega. When we talk about Požega, then we need to know that it's an old, old court and said, a court in Požega, yes, yes, yes, there was an old court yet, not to say, when Turkey had... and with its seat,... The Požega-based Slavonia, and then it came about during Austria-Hungarian times. But here, your conversations, interventions remain the court and thank you for your constructive and understanding of the problems, the situation, both in time and space, but also in the availability of the court both in Požega and in Slavonski Brod. When we talk about criminal courts, it says there are 21, they're numbered here, I think it would take too long to count them. What's interesting is that I see Virovitica, so the municipal court in Virovitica is gathering, or leaving for the Bjelovar County Court, the County Court in Varazdin has even Koprivnica and just one second to look at it. The county court in, excuse me, I told Varazdin, but I can't find him. They started it in Chakovec, yes, yes, Chakovec, Koprivnica, I said Koprivnica, you say it isn't, and it is. Chakovec, I remember well, still. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Chakovci, Koprivni, Varazdin. So, the county borders were not respected, so they were not crucial in the very formation of these county courts, but when we look at the lists of all the municipalities, the cities belonging to the County Court in Varazdin, then I would say that this list is the most deficient, there are half the pages, now that I don't list all these possible municipalities and cities from Koprivnica and Čakovec and Varazdin belong to the Varazdin County Court. From our Požeško-Slavon County Pakrac sailed to Bjelovar in terms of traffic connections and probably distances and possibilities, the availability of actually a court in Bjelovar which may be from Pakrac via Daruvar, perhaps more accessible to Bjelovar than to Požega. But when we talk about Požega, then really, in Požega, there was a municipal court exclusively for that former Požega municipality in that former state, a collapse like Yugoslavia's former, the former Yugoslavia. Here, what to say for our opinions and thinking? I said that to thank you for listening to the voice, not the people, but the people and the judges and the situation that was then in Slavonski Brod and Požega very tense, but regardless the government has the right to decide as it pleases, but here is for your contribution here at the session of the Assembly where you patiently listen to all of us together, and I have said this before, and also for what you did in connection with Slavonski Brod and Požega, thank you too. We have little Gradiška left behind for court distances, but that is why we will hardly agree to vote in Slavonia, but here, by tomorrow we will decide how to vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79280	Thank you. The replica was reported by the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79281	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I was offered your remembrance of judges. To warn of a phenomenon that is quite damaging to the Croatian economy, first in the way of dispute resolution. The fact that disputes are being settled long, slow and expensive, but the biggest contribution would be to resolving disputes in the judiciary if the Ministry of Justice somehow found a way to end arbitration in an economic chamber. What is happening there is unacceptable to the modern economy. There is no respect for the profession or the right, and from the morale is as far away as the earth from the sun, and sometimes it is more expensive and longer, but in regular court proceedings, and you know it. I think you heard how it works in arbitration, in the Chamber of Commerce. It accesses itself on the surface, it doesn't even want to hear witnesses at all, it doesn't want to hear the opinion of a court witch or give evidence in the court's case file, it's being solved by its own findings, and on the way back 10 minutes or a half an hour with 20 functions that normally behave in society, but fate issues are being resolved. Many, often just and not disputed, are killed there, but contributes to individuals, and destroys many companies that are left without employees and always in favor of great and powerful ones. Arbitration in the Chamber of Commerce must not function in the way it works and it is evil for the Croatian economy. Please, Minister, see what this is all about. Thank you very much. And you've heard about the fees, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79282	But not the minister you ask the question to, but Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79283	Thank you very much. I'm joining your replica. I've caused your thinking and this text that you've spoken and this replica. I don't want to talk about certain cases so I don't get a call for information talks again, but I think here we know you and I know for sure and the minister, and I hope they'll do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79284	On behalf of the DC Club and independent representatives will speak to the respected Vesna Škara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79285	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Here's a few words for me on the subject of reorganization of the network of courts. So to be clear, reorganising the network of courts is a condition without which we cannot move on if we talk about the efficiency of the judicial system. This model was also to push through and indeed all praise the Ministry of Justice and Associates and the Minister himself for walking very continuously throughout Croatia and for speaking with numerous judges of numerous courts and other judicial bodies. It wasn't an easy conversation, and it was even harder to talk to the local administration leaders. And it really should have been done, but it was worth it because only understanding and the right clarification of information can lead to no major protests, that there is no great resistance to this process of reorganising the network of courts. What I would like to stress again, and let me have a slightly different approach to speakers, and that's exactly what I think might cause problems. So exactly this abolishing of the local jurisdiction of the courts in my opinion is a tectonic disorder in the judicial authority, and I haven't been able to register all reactions to that fact yet. So other than requiring amendments to the law, it will require a completely different approach. This random algorithmic award of appeal cases to any county court in Croatia requires additional answers, regrets simple simulations. First, what is the number of cases located in second-degree courts, and what is the number of cases which the second-degree courts will at least have to make decisions when it comes to litigation because they have already abolished the appeal procedure and are now returning to them for decision-making this time. So how many such cases where the parties will still have to not be heard in their home court but should go to the hearing because that is what the judge of the county court is asking for because he wants to carry out the procedure. But it's not just the party's questions, it's the experts, it's some other actors. In the very court procedure, how many such cases are they going to increase costs. The reorganization of the network of courts at this point does not ask for costs because the costs will certainly be greater than we think they could be, but how many such items are. I think we should still have it, get it so we can sort of consider if it's the best decision of the moment. So, what if the second-degree court has to carry out the procedure and does not want the party to be heard in its court? The other thing I wanted to point out was the double office. The issue of executive and land-based cases that are being accepted whether in the seat of the court, whether in the field service. How is that going to work out? If we're going to have an electronic office, when it's going to be established, how long it's going to take to establish, these are all problems and issues that are simply important. It may occur that due to the double office you have in the field service you have, I don't know in the Zapresic District Service and in the Municipal Civil Court, the south may have a double entry or a double proposal, and then the state could then be exposed to any proceedings for compensation for damages. The third thing is what I have spoken to some public notaries about resolving the enforcement procedure in public notebooks, how this will now reflect on their work, for example. in Zagreb where 80% of public notebooks are located in the area to Sava, and there are far fewer who are located via Sava to resolve it. That's all the questions I'm asking for answers. So here I would stand and pray that in some way this debate and these specific topics be directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79286	He answered the words of Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79287	So, yeah, there's a whole series of questions, I'll start at the end. So, as far as the public notary's jurisdiction is concerned, there is a particular question of Zagreb. And I was in the notary chamber too to present the system and we agreed that we would be very flexible in this and arrange their jurisdiction by common agreement and so we agreed with the management of the chamber so that this problem would not be. As far as the office is concerned, that's one question, so it's going to be a unique office. When it will be at this time can exist throughout Croatia except in Zagreb. Zagreb will be resolved by the 7th month, functional at 9. means around the 10th month it also works in Zagreb. It's just, at that rate it's going. Because we have the whole system, so all our courts are in the system except for the municipal civil court in Zagreb, the municipal working court. But here, I don't know if today, but all these days people are training at the Ministry of Use of the new system and it's the only one. When they enter the Supreme Court and in fact all courts in Croatia are in the e-record as far as the case is concerned, it means if we are talking about the matter. And as for the gruntovnica, it has its own special system, that's where we're going to use the solutions that have been used so far in the merger. So we and now we have a whole series of permanent services that are, which exist together with the parent courts and have, here will have a unique office. As far as the second-degree procedure is concerned, so first this prerequisite that I was talking about means that we have all the courts in the e-record. And I can say with pleasure that here, you finally see the end of this process, finally, I think it started even in your time or even before, which means more than 10 years we've been working on it. It's been spent, maybe we'll all count together once, but a lot of money and tragedy is that it's not over. I'm not even going to open up to you right now the HITRONET question, let's say that when it started, it was dimensioned for the entire state administration, so all the ministries except the administration and the judiciary came out of it. So we now have to finish the network that we refer to the judiciary and by dimension it's for the entire state administration so it costs us extra, but we have to not, so, but let's go back. Penalties. At this point, we have 18% of the cases required by the public debate. Criminal procedural issues remain where they are. So we're not going to decide about Dubrovnik's investigative prison. We're going to narrow down the possibility of attending the debates a little bit, we're going to apply other types of video connection methods, etc. And that problem shouldn't be when we're talking about a criminal. That's why it goes 6 months before civil. Because it's a smaller number, I think, as far as I don't know, I can give you the exact data on the file as much as, I don't know now by heart, a smaller number is and there goes a lot earlier. It's civicly specific. You opened up earlier and the question of real estate means how we're going to decide, that's true. That is why it is possible in civil society that in the first phase we will not go to national jurisdiction precisely because of this, ban on multiple termination than it would be more regional, which means that if it were to travel to the maximum meaning of a few hours, not a few hours, a couple, it means from Karlovac to Zagreb that we are talking about it. So that's one option. But what we have here is this working group that's working on it, so this law just creates a basis and we're going to solve it with the court's rules of procedure, we have colleagues from county courts who even bring up ideas, so county judges are going to specialize in it. Which means we'd mark a couple of county districts working hard, familyly. It's certain that we'll specialize in land and book, and that's what we have in law, so that's for sure. So that's it. But what matters to us is that our algorithm system right now, he just needs these definitions, he very quickly, so how are we going to handle the rules of procedure and that we're going to... , see and actually in agreement with the judges we'll make see, he supports each of these options. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's important for us to complete the information system and then we can say, O.K., divides only excess items, divides all objects nationally, divides all objects or divides them regionally, we'll simply balance it. We have the information, and we'll agree to that. Here at the headquarters, it was important for us to keep the county courts in order to have judicial areas and simply work out how we're going to do business on the one hand. On the other hand, deciding to move away from the local environment if you want to and give it somewhere else. So whether regional or national has nothing to do with it, in criminal terms it's going to go a whole lot wider, it's civil. More specific than you said yourself. [[Intruder: Minister's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79288	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first registered respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79289	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts which bears such a dry name and what is behind it, what is happening to these amendments and what are the consequences that will result from the long-term work, the deep recording of the entire judiciary to find a fair solution, above all, in the burden of judges. So we're not talking about buildings, although it might seem that way and everything to put the judge in one equal position, a fair position in relation to other colleagues, so that the judges are leveled, evenly distributed, and all so that in a fair, objective way they can judge as they are given by the Constitution and by law. So, when we talk about this law, we must inevitably mention that all this is just about judges, that is, for the sake of citizens. Because the independence of the judiciary, the judges do not exist because of them, but because of the citizens themselves. And I'd just like to say two, three sentences introducing how important it is and when we're discussing a bill like this. Professor Zelec speaks in one of his important works about the painful birth of the independence of the judiciary in Croatia, so when I was part of the former state which he calls dark, then dark dark because we said we hoped that the 1990s would be much better, however, and which should have been years of Croatian blooming especially on this plan left only bitter taste in the mouth. What does he say about reform? He says in 2000 there was a change in the government followed by a historic decision by the Constitutional Court that abolished articles in the DSV law that allowed the violation of the Institute of Independence until then. This is why novels and the Law on Courts, the DSV Act, are being created, there are certain changes in the Constitution, conditions are being created for the separation of the affairs of the administration and self-government and the Constitution and the law and again bring fertile ground for the achievement of the independence of the judiciary, which is for the first time being applied in practice. He's still talking about constant, greater or less progress, so 14 years and we all agree on it more or less. Why it's important to speak and why we don't need to run away from our political commitment that we want. The ultimate goal is the independence of the judiciary, an independent judge, so that he can justly be burdened and justly share justice with the citizens. That's why I find it unnecessary to run away from a political assessment that's the way it should be. However, competition between politics and the separation of a policy that talks to the relevant ones, which respects the profession itself, is a real policy. It is a responsible policy from one who denies it and which is rightly criticised in public. But running away from everything that's political and saying it's not a matter of politics. Yeah, it's a matter of politics, it's a matter of this government and this policy. That's the thing I hope for and here not only for most but also for minorities who support it, which sees in this good thing and that's then the victory of politics. We in politics must finally be aware that good things do not matter who they come from, but who recognizes them and supports them. So, not to be really like in some constant wars where we have defeated and won, because here in the end, as in every war at the end, all the losers are again and remain just a troubled man like a man, a citizen who waits in vain for his justice. Now, the minister everyone congratulated and I join those congratulations and the entire ministry because this is something new. That's not what we've had so far. We all struggled in a way that we were able to change laws, speed up laws, give them more resources and all that stands and all that remains. However, we obviously need to be, put our hand on the heart and say that it did not give certain results either at that speed or at the quality we expected, and even less as expected by the citizens. In 2002, we raised big and got a big loan from the World Bank. Then the state gave huge funds to reshape the land book. We still don't have that job done without talking about other things. Why this is crucial, this is the law, these changes are very important. A lot of people have already said why, and I'll say it again. What's more important is that one judge is not five times as burdened as another judge. How can that judge who has 50 times or five times more cases than this other one gets here? But what does he do and what can he do? He can achieve a standard to choose objects regardless of this. There's always a model that he has a standard, and that's very important for his progress. So many, as much as we objectively objected, some judges are dissatisfied with their own, or as it progresses in the judicial profession, as these promotions occur. Because you too, politics has gone away. But we have one other big problem, and that's an internal addiction where judges decide for themselves, because they have such a majority in the State Judiciary Council, which is good. Because like the Magna Carta in the judiciary itself, for the judiciary, so all these principles we respect but threaten other dangers. So we too must see what moments these are to prevent through the law. So this is one law that is primarily just, which allows judges to come to a fair position. If the judge one has worked five times as hard as the other judge, his colleague, and for the same salary, then he is already in such a situation, alone is not in a fair situation, he is not so to say or independent because he is not in a fair situation in relation to the other and we ask him, or a citizen rightly asks to be objective in his case. So it didn't come to this by hooking up, let's get something together, let's split up. Because if that's how it's done, then our history is in the administration, and even in the judiciary, it's a lot of these kind of attempts to separate and connect just for that. But this was preceded by a deep recording that I've already said on certain committees that we need our administration as well. Isn't someone, in a similar way, as much as it is of course that the administration is even more branching and complex a mechanism. Because true reforms and results in the judiciary as a whole and to the end will not be until the administration is reformed. And let me just say one sentence, because it's also related to seeing where, in which segments, the frame is missing. Because it doesn't matter who's who and when they choose. They have people doing the job, but to know exactly how many items within what time. Who can't please that state should thank him for his work so far, and let a man find another job. So, what the minister said and we have, we're talking here as much as we're going to have county courts now, we're saying it's always parallel to the county, but we don't have to hide, we don't only have county in Croatia, or some county is not county they're county. And there are some judges in the county who are connected to some media, and these media are with someone in the quotes "masters". And that stands for one bench where the central government hasn't reached yet. It exists. And that's going to be broken with this. If it doesn't go the other way until the other mechanisms work, then this is one of the fastest and most effective ways to jump into it. In doing so, I repeat, it is important that this norm where other courts will be dealt with by appeal. This is also very important not only because of some doubts about some independence and the association of certain stakeholders, but rather to say the accumulation, rather to even the case law. Because let's be honest, we have passed laws and it seems that a more peaceful legislative period is coming, and in which only a more peaceful legislative period in which our discussions will be better quality, but on the other hand, allow for judicial practice to develop and strengthen the legal certainty of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79290	Thank you. The replica was reported by the respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, Ingrid, you said quite nicely that the unbalanced burden of judges is the thing that has led to most of this reform, but you should have looked at the conclusions of the Croatian judges, the Association of Judges, who has clearly said that this is not the case. So the question is, will the whole system of judgment ultimately be seen as one whole to achieve the desired goal, the greater urgency of first-degree judges and courts? Because some will be more relieved and therefore necessarily more up-to-date if they properly behave their "debt" under quotes, of course. And other more burdened than boredom and therefore necessarily less up-to-date than boredom. That's what the Croatian judges say. The question is whether a part of the citizens who have participated in a series of rules in real and local jurisdiction gets faster legal protection in courts where judges have been less burdened by the number and structure of the case after the reform is implemented faster or slower legal protection? We'll see about that, and the judges are skeptical about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79292	Let's hear the answer to this replica and theory.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79293	I'm unusually glad that you've replicated and mentioned the Association of Judges that I'm going to mention for the first time, and you've given me a brilliant occasion. This Association of Judges has expressed doubts, if it does not already attack because there is no reason to do so, it is now expressing great doubt every time such a coalition comes to power. Otherwise, there are no doubts or concerns, no questions or answers when it comes to any other option. But I don't object to you because you just read what is right and standing. However, the minister was not lazy as many here admitted from different options, almost as a peace judge after Henry VIII. He went all over Croatia, talked to local authorities, talked to the presidents of the courts, the department presidents, the judges, talked to everyone, and they had no doubts. Where there was doubt there was a lot of objections and respect. In fact, there was an open conversation. However, there remains still the problem that you have potential, perhaps indirectly and unconsciously but not unconsciously I think that you are also aware that there are still politicians who would judge, that there are judges who would deal with politics and who are not exactly independent lawkeepers but would be legislators. And theirs is just to apply the law and be independent of what we want. But independent of policy and of any other stakeholders and purchases.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79294	We're continuing an individual debate. It's Mirella Holly's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the presentation on the proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts in the first reading, I would like to welcome the proposal's decision to discuss this proposal in two readings. It is extremely important that such an important law is not discussed by emergency procedure, and unfortunately very often it seems in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that this proposal is proposed by the Ministry of Justice, and it is clear to all that without qualitative, quality public administration reform and judicial reform, Croatia has absolutely no chance of becoming a better orderly, efficient and just state. Although I welcome the positive intensities of the motions after reading this bill, I cannot, however, not ask the question in which exactly the Government plans to reform the judiciary, which is a concrete objective, a quantifiable objective, and with which specific instruments the Government plans to achieve this extremely important objective? I welcome the applicant's intensities to go towards rationalising the number of courts, but I am asking whether this reorganisation will ultimately lead to the efficiency of the work of the courts, and thus establish a fairer and more legal society unless we also implement certain qualitative instruments for judicial reform? In fact, it must not happen again to the public with one more mini reform that will essentially change nothing, and could cause a stalemate in the judiciary, especially in terms of sharing the Municipal Court in Zagreb. It is not at all disputed that a different organisation of courts is necessary, especially small courts, but the question is whether this should be done in Zagreb in this way? According to the current Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, we have 67 municipal courts, 15 county courts, 7 commercial and 4 administrative courts and according to the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts, we have 61 criminal courts. This proposal proposes a reduction from 67 to 23 municipal courts, and from 61 to 21 criminal courts. The promoter argues that despite previous rationalisations and by 2008 we had more than 100 municipal courts, the existing system of the judicial network is still ineffective, that judges are unevenly burdened, which is why court proceedings are long-lasting, leading to a steady increase in backlogs. In addition, we also have unequal court practice, and insufficiently specialised judges. It is alarming that many courts generate different court practice in cases of similar or similar legal areas, which is death for the sense of social justice and equality of all citizens before the laws. I would like to commend the Ministry of Justice's proposal for an extremely high-quality and objective analysis of the current situation, which is extremely important for defining concrete objectives and moving instruments to achieve the objectives outlined. This bill proposes a new organisation of a network of municipal and criminal courts, which significantly reduces the number of municipal and criminal courts. This reorganisation seeks to achieve a more uniform working burden on the courts and judges, which should ensure greater efficiency of the court, rationalisation of costs, equalisation of case law and greater specialisation of judges. And these are all very well-set goals. However, the question arises whether these proposed measures will be sufficient and will ultimately prove effective in implementing this objective. In particular, Zagreb has the most burdensome courts and remains a problem and is not solved in my opinion by this proposal. It is also impossible to think that, according to the proposed solution, more interactions, so social, social, economic relations and thus conflicts would be produced by persons from Zagreb and Ivanić town than by two people from two parts of Zagreb. The town of Zagreb, with the exception of Sesveta where there is traditionally a special court, then rural and territorially isolated towns of Bezovica, and individual settlements under New Zagreb represent an indivisible organic unit within which the population and economic operators mainly establish all types of interrelations to an incomparably greater extent than other wholes outside the City of Zagreb. In fact, we are talking about the statistical settlement of Zagreb which corresponds to the postmark of Zagreb, and here I remind you that Sesvete, Brezovica and some settlements under New Zagreb have their own postage marks and offices. I therefore believe that one municipal, or civil court should remain for the settlement of Zagreb and that the declared objective of equating the burden and size of the courts should be to the greatest extent possible to try to achieve a different reorganisation of the network of courts around Zagreb. It is clear that, in such a situation, the single Municipal Court in Zagreb would remain greater than all other courts in the Republic of Croatia but would have to valorise both the special position and the size of Zagreb within the Republic of Croatia and certainly the ratio of its size to other courts in Croatia would have been significantly reduced compared to today's situation. In this way, the paradoxical, non-lifeless and ridiculous situations would be avoided so that persons from the Sigeta person from Trnje who is only 1km away must sue in front of another court while at the same time being under the same hat with the person from Popojski or Žumberk. The worst possible solutions are those that share people, their habits, customs, contacts, interests and needs in the city streets. How this will affect the ability of judges and other court employees to work normally, will the court’s staff have to study whether something belongs to the west, east or north at each reception of the case. How much such an organisation will affect the full suffocation of the system over a long period of time, while citizens, lawyers, judges and court workers are accustomed to cleavage of the city in the streets. In the meantime, how many unsolved files will grow, how many unnecessary administrations will be, i.e. advertising indemnity, conflict of jurisdiction, multiplication of the file, implementation through the registers and in the registers, censusing and transfer of the file, forming new referendums, award of the case. Should the inefficient work of the judicial administration in the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb result in an increase in the administration or perhaps in some other measures. Is the division of land books in Zagreb really going to help several courts reduce the burdens of the ZK department or produce even greater legal uncertainty and judicial backlogs. How will the stalkings of the judicial departments, the office, and the individual referendums be separated, to which court would the individual judge and to which one of his notaries go? And what about lawyers, is it really appropriate to have the weight of the economic situation so many lawyers from Zagreb, from small law offices to force them to visit numerous locations of various scheduled courts daily. Lawyers in Zagreb do not find their clients exclusively south of Sava, just as their clients south of Sava generally do not solve their problems with the citizens of Ivanic town but with the citizens of the entire city of Zagreb. A large number of small lawyers will be impossible to keep and what few clients they have because physically they will not be able to cope with bypassing so many courts in the same day and every day. The proposed solution will only directly benefit large law firms who will only be able to cover so many courts that will need to be visited daily during the debates and to raise their mail in legal boxes with a number of human resources. On the other hand, a huge number of small law offices will be literally wiped out, the existence of them and their families without any need being questioned. I therefore propose that the territorial jurisdiction of the current Municipal Court in Zagreb is not significantly touched and that the harmonisation of the burden and size of the courts is resolved by a different organisation of the network of courts around Zagreb, so I appeal to you to consider this possibility, or one common court, until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79296	I would like to thank Minister Milenic for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79297	I thank you for your remarks. I must admit that I have already read them because they are identical to the memo I received from the Zagreb Municipal Court. I can even tell from who, but it doesn't matter now I'm not speaking publicly. So they are identical and written when we have proposed three courts and these interactions, etc. Which I have to admit today, I don't know what that means, but it's written there. So let's get from the end, lawyer... get to one location only, and in other places it even shrinks. There will be fewer locations in Zagreb than it is now. And if someone thinks they're going to fail because they're going to travel straight two miles longer, then I don't even know how they're going to exist. Because that court in New Zagreb will be less than 2km away because it's about 2km away from this now. And other locations are going to shrink because by emptying that building, we're going to put something else in there. So, there's gonna be someone traveling, there's not gonna be any threat. As far as that goes, there's always an administrative limit. The administrative limit between municipalities always exists, there is always one street in one, the other in the other, so jurisdiction is based on the defendant and that is the rule that always exists. There can't be any chaos. Why? Because all the judges will finish their cases. So, you or I, as a citizen, will continue to go to the Palace of Justice until our case is over, but those new items that come after 01.01., they will be in New Zagreb if they belong in New Zagreb by place of the defendants. But look, you're suing someone from Osijek today, you're going to travel to Osijek, because that's the way it is. So here you're going, yes, instead of going to Vukovar, you're going to go to the Velesaim which isn't very far away, it's going on a tram and it's the only change. These remarks when they were put against that proposed original division of the East and the West, even then they didn't stand, and I'm sorry that we gave it up, but we had to give up because our information wasn't finished and because of the question of land books that would be really difficult... so we gave it up and now it just means dividing north, south. The north remains as compact as it is now, I think it's a clear limit to everyone, so it's not even a street, but a very tangible border, but there must always be some boundaries. Where is the border compared to Zapresic or Sesvete? Which are now special courts, also within the city of Zagreb. So what is said in that letter, it actually exists today in Zagreb, does not cause problems. People who have been in the system for decades tell me that Zagreb works best when it has, I think, 4 courts or 3. ... Yeah, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But it worked best then. So we don't have to be afraid. Zagreb now, this famous Zagreb which should not be touched, this OGS which so far resists the most, let's say the introduction of an e-script, so you should actually ask people why they don't want the e-registrations, which all the courts have and which only allows you as a citizen to get a judge at random. They're very hard to get into. This Zagreb has 21% inflows if it generates 30% behind. So if someone wants to keep that system, it's completely wrong. So I'm saying, you don't need to be afraid of these disorders. Of course, what can cause them is the lack of co-operation of the judicial authority, but that's why we're working, we're talking, we're going into it, we're in meetings every day because it's not the point of passing the law, it's important to implement it, and that's why I gave myself what you said, what you said, and I'm talking to everyone, and it's important that the law is foreseen by most judges, not because the Association of Judges would object, actually it doesn't matter to me, to be honest because we have to understand that this Parliament is passing laws and that it represents citizens who pay. The one who pays has the right to decide who and where to work, not the one who does, it's never given... but you need to listen to people. I've talked to them several times and I always will, because it's important to get feedback and it's important to actually do something, preferably together, not to impose. In this case I think most of it is for and I've said it many times, if you're all against it, I won't work. I mean, there's no need to bring such a false reform, to call it that, which is not going to be carried out. So I say, we worked here with everyone, I know about this attitude, we really took it into account, here you see that we have corrected this east, and we have already done that, but from the south we can't give up because this is the kind of Zagreb, even when it remains only the north for the citizens is not good. Let's watch the citizens first, let's not look at judges who advocate each other because it's easier or harder for them. Let's watch an average citizen who currently has the longest trial in Croatia at the Palace of Justice. And that is the problem, the longest trial in Croatia, in the centre of Zagreb. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79298	We'll hear the replica of Mirale Holly on this display.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79299	Thank you, Your Honor, for the explanation, this is not exactly my area, but I must point out that I didn't get these remarks from the judges because I'm not communicating with them, but with the lawyers, and now that the lawyers have taken it from the judges, I don't know. It seemed to me an argument, I must admit, logically because if it were going in the direction of rationalization then it would be more logical for us to have this part more rationally organized with regard to Zagreb, but here it is, I accept your comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79300	We're continuing an individual debate. Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with your associates. Before we move on to the measure of things ourselves, and listening to the debate so far concerning the reorganisation of justice, here I would like to appeal that the part that we have introduced so far into legislation, which is that the President of the Supreme Court of Croatia submits a report on the state of the judiciary, will finally come to the Assembly because I think that the MPs, a good part of the MPs who have so far discussed obtaining answers to many of the questions they have raised in this topic, which is actually the reorganisation of the judiciary. In any case, as I have debated on committees so far, both the Committee on Law and the Justice, I will now repeat at the plenary debate that I really support the reorganisation of the courts, I think it is necessary, and that it will certainly lead to a more up-to-date reorganisation of the courts in achieving the judicial authority. In particular, of course I welcome the broad public debate you have held, among all the segments that participate in the participation or representation of parties in one way or another and of course what this law is in the first reading and still leaves the possibility of making certain improvements. Why do I feel that the reorganisation of the judiciary is necessary? It is necessary for the reason that today in the Republic of Croatia we have a truly irregular burden of courts, which we have courts in which some judges have only 90 subjects, and some have over 500, 600 cases, for the same salary they work very unevenly, and those courts and those judges who are overworked with the number of cases, of course, that they can neither be up-to-date nor come to a rapid end of the first-degree procedure which I have pointed out in one of my replicas in today's debate. Without trial within a reasonable period of time, of course there is no legal certainty. As we heard on the Justice Committee somewhere is the average length of the proceedings with us for 475 days, and where we have a case where the first degree lasted more than 800 days as much as you mentioned and of course it cannot satisfy or provide legal certainty. The unification of court practice, of course, is an extremely important thing and, of course, if the court with a number of judges is that it is also more likely to specialize in judges in courts where we have one or two judges to come to that specialisation, it certainly cannot come. And, of course, I am going to what I am now, but also, I do not agree until the end of the reorganisation and in the debate so far, as I have stated in my discussions on committees, I am not sure that the happy solution is the division of the municipal courts of Zagreb to the south and the north in a way that the municipal court of Velika Gorica also belongs to the south. I will now point out again, and it is because I speak from the position of someone who has worked in the judiciary for 20 years, so for an effective judiciary, I would never be driven exclusively by local patriotism or the desire to hang a board on a court building in Velika Gorica that it is the Municipal Court in Velika Gorica. The municipal court in Velika Gorica is a court of a long court tradition of over 120 years and not only that, they have a sufficient number of judges, has a sufficient number of cases, even beyond the average by number of cases per judge. So now in the Velika Gorica Municipal Court, there are 400 cases and I am not sure that by joining up with an unscheduled court, which will be a municipal court in the beginning of the Municipal Court of Zagreb south and the legal protection of the citizens of Velika Gorica and the existing municipalities covered by the current jurisdiction, which are the municipalities of Kravarsko, Popusko and Orle will have an up-to-date legal protection as they had now. With the previous debate, I do not agree that it would be better for the Zagreb Municipal Court to remain as bulky as it is now. He's really a mastodont and he'll never be up-to-date like that. Since 1983, when I was appointed judge there was such a municipal court of Zagreb and since the first day of my trial he has been unscheduled and he will never be so up-to-date. Is it fortunate or unfortunate that I remember and the times when Zagreb had 4 municipal courts and were up-to-date, only speaks for the fact that we really need to think that the urgency of the trial in the Zagreb area will be as we wish it to be? If we don't stop at two municipal courts but on three, if that's four, that would already be the kind of return that would be said. What I heard from you in an argument on the Justice Committee that you were not only deterred by information, but now I don't know if you meant it, but also by a garter because it's much simpler to set up a garter without touching it now and easier if it's up to Sava and via Sava. Perhaps looking at a faster solution in the way it was resolved while the Zagreb Municipal Court had four municipal courts might help to resolve the division of the grantovnica. In any case, I believe that in addition to this number of cases that I have said by the judge at the Velika Gorica Municipal Court, I do believe that all the arguments that stand that the reorganisation of the judiciary is necessary for the sake of urgency, simply no single argument is made by the General Court in Velika Gorica. So I repeat, he's got enough judges, enough judges to specialize, he's got enough cases, he's up-to-date, he's got adequate facilities. Velika Gorica remains the only environment in which the county court will be, and there will be no municipal court, Velika Gorica offers to the state or the Ministry of Justice since the current county court is in inadequate space to co-finance the expansion, i.e. the training of the building that is until the Velika Gorica Municipal Court for the premises of the County Court in Velika Gorica. The town of Velika Gorica is highly connected to all Zagreb County sites. I am sure that, instead of one great mastodon of the Municipal Court of Zagreb, we will now have two great mastodons, the Municipal Court of Zagreb south and the Municipal Court of Zagreb north. Therefore, the municipal court has satisfactory capacities. The municipal court has 62 employees, so six officers per judge. So far less than now in Croatia 18. I'd also like to hear the data on how many cases a judge has in Zlatar City Court and the Verovitica Municipal Court. I think they're all below the standard now met by the Grand Gorica Municipal Court. I believe that this way of reorganisation that is going to damage the municipal court in Velika Gorica that the Velika Gorica Municipal Court is a collateral victim of the resolution of impunity in the municipal court of Zagreb. And I am also sure that this impunity in the Municipal Court of Zagreb will not be resolved. Staying on the Velika Gorica Municipal Court does not cross the current Zagreb Municipal Court as I said it would be divided into more than two. In short, since all cities based on county courts also have municipal courts It is absolutely unwarranted and discriminatory to make an exception only with regard to the town of Velika Gorica. [[Intruder: Finish.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79302	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary, the minister called. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79303	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'll be very brief. If I didn't share all the data here now my proposal is what we've already discussed that you actually come in agreement with more people, obviously Big Gorica is one problem we're going to sit down, we're going to put all the data on one, the other, the map. Let's go remember, try to make a deal next week, week behind. I'm fully available, we're open. Because here, from the debate, we see that we have one thing left, maybe the only thing left, hopefully the only one. So, here, organize, suggest and come. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79304	Confirmation that the debate in the Croatian Parliament is being paid off. Thank you very much. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79305	Dear ladies and gentlemen. When I answered for the word, I thought it would be all I had left to say to the minister's character and political qualities, that he had one exceptional patience to listen to and praises and criticisms that are sometimes unwarranted. However, the debate shows me that this is the result of his I will tell political intelligence or adaptability to the gravity of the situation. That's why I have not one thing but three things to point out. First, the debate reiterates the the thesis that the effects or why this reform is going to take place. That's because we don't discuss judicial reform under this one law. We are above all, in fact, the ministry has proposed this reform spoke about a strategy where the objectives are defined, where the areas in which reforms must follow are defined. And this law is only one but an integral part of that process. This is especially important because, and I warned the ministers there, what can be expected to come to this debate about what is the problem of Croatia and that is the legendary division, perhaps I should say the contention when it comes to their personal or local, individual and not whole national interest. This is one good tactics and an indication of how we may need to do things in other ways. But to use the term "disposal of courts" because there are none, there is no abolishing, but rationalization exists. The other thing is, I'm sorry there's no colleague of Maric who called the Nobel laureates. I don't know if the minister knows that he's following his tactics with access to the entire problem of a respected Nobel laureate Ronald Couse. The truth about what he wrote in '35. '66. He won the Nobel Prize. So it took patience. What's the matter? In approach, we are usually used to seeing only the written norm. It's like we're happy to read the menu for lunch. Here you should ask because lunch is and what is the meal, what is the efficiency of the judiciary, and not only what is written in the Constitution and stop at a completely pointless division of us, them, this group or that group. So here I point out that this is a very carefully recalculated data. That decisions are made not according to attitude or intent only, but according to the calculation of how much it costs and what effects it causes. I used an expression on the board that was not well understood. I said this is an example of how to approach the problem in the way the manager would approach a large system that would look after the whole, which would make sure that its system does not turn out to be individual under the system county or municipal, or fundamental courts whatever its name is. That's what's side-by-side. What matters is if we can get more for less. More for less, it was a parolee. Someone will say new liberalism, but it's that we need to see what reality is, and then according to this reality, we're adapting to the patching of a system like this. The third thing I wanted to say is the fact that in the judiciary here we always talk like we're always starting over, that problems are mixed up and they're discussing what's not the subject of the debate or the law in this case. There is an expression of all of our valuable attitude whether the judges are corrupt or not, whether the country is just or not. We can only concentrate here on one single question: whether the network of courts is rational or not. There's been an answer to that question a long time ago, 10 years. Therefore, here the problems were just that the situation was not mature in a political sense, there was not enough strength and opportunity to implement a rational solution. That is why it is our great responsibility that when we discuss justice we wait for the moment that the previous lady said, that is the moment when we will listen to the final report on the situation in the judiciary. Then let all our knowledge of how it works. But here the main question is how much it costs, our reform as proposed, and whether it's a sign of a system where we're going to get more in less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79306	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79307	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this morning, I was unusually pleased to see the minister come in alive and well into the assembly, because I was afraid that I had read in the local media that the minister had been exposed to terrible pressures, so I doubted what kind of pressure it might have been that he changed his mind until they came to the Parliament in public debate until the first reading. Of course, Minister, I'm glad the minister here made it clear and loud about the pay phone that these types of political pressures and criteria were not there. And now I'm just gonna say a few things why I think we should support this bill. First of all, this is about a serious job that has been done professionally, and I congratulate both the minister and the people of the ministry, because this is, the minister emphasized it is one start of a process that just continues. And whenever some processes are carried out, when it comes to reforms, there are resistances as in natural sciences there is a law of inert that is very clear and applicable in many natural laws. So there is the same principle of momentum in social events, people usually resist change. What was not good in this process was fearing people first of all with travel. I'm going to say something about this later, but surely the motive for this kind of reform is unsatisfactory. That's what they were talking about, the minister was talking about in the introduction. Everything we have in the judiciary today. On the one hand, we have dissatisfied people whose actions take too long, and on the other hand, we probably have dissatisfied judges who, then, from lawsuits that cause little laughter like this, that the neighbor's rats ate flowers, and then the judge needs to make a verdict in such a case to some serious process that then takes too long. Here, a colleague of the coat of arms said that micro courts are actually a pretty bad option, everyone wants to have their own judgment. And here is one of the advantages of this solution being carried out in court specializations. I will try to logically compare it with medicine, where certainly a specialist who has a daily one case has more practice and better quality than one who encounters this type of disease once a year. That's probably how it works with court practice. The minister said in his introduction that he had applied a mathematical approach, but then when everything was ready, it entered a public debate that was broad and I particularly welcome it. Therefore, in this public debate, arguments were faced either through those letters sent or by the leaders of units of local self-government or professional interested public, as well as in daily discussions. And it's part of a public debate. And especially now, it's important to go through two more readings in the Parliament. And what I would especially welcome is that for the area of Virovitica where we had in the original proposal problems with the area of Slatina and Orahovica because we were headed towards Požega and Brod which, in fact, through the arguments we saw was simply physically inconclusive. And then the ministry respected it, and in this proposal, it means the Municipal Court or the Fundamental Court or whatever it is called in Virovitica along with these areas of Slatina, Slatina and Orahovica. What I'd like to do now is not to be longer, I'm not a lawyer, so I'm not going to talk about this metric. But what certainly seems very good to me is, I think it's Professor. The Cregar spoke of it, that very quickly it will be possible to see the measurable effects of this bill and that is the most important thing to see what has been achieved with it and in which direction it leads. And Ministers, what I specifically ask you, was yesterday here a debate on the law that will most likely be and adopted state-owned information infrastructure and you, as your portfolio, from your ministry mentioned here the information of HITRONET. I'm asking you to contribute that as soon as these things come back to life, because then all these stories about people's travels, I don't know here and there because of some documents they're actually deplaced, they won't have that much tension, and there were. I say, there were inappropriate expressions and you were called inappropriately. I'm personally sorry about that, but here I am once again hoping that this law in those measurable effects will show success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79308	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79309	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. A colleague, Žagar, namely from the proposal for a debate on the network of courts, was clearly seen where and how the network of courts in the County of Virital-Podravska was wanted to be rationalised, so that one part would be under the municipality's court in Bjelovar, and the other part would be part of the municipal court in Požega, while the violation court for the eastern part of the county would probably be in Slavonski Brod because of the SDP secretary, why could the other be? I didn't see a reasonable solution to why there should be a seat of our court. On the other hand, reforms that have so rigorously reduced institutions happen not only in the judiciary and in all other state bodies in our county, and you as a man from the ruling team should prevent it at any cost, raise your voice against it, say no, our institutions are important for further development. If we don't have judicial bodies, if we don't have a trial on the ground we don't even have an investor, we don't have those investors if they have to go to Zagreb or Bjelovar or Slavonski Brod or possibly elsewhere. Since the reform began in 2008 and then I was not satisfied with the proposed reform, since the courts we invested in had been extinguished, equipped with state-of-the-art equipment and placed them on 99 years of management. I was against it, too. Today I can only say that these reforms that have reduced the number and the network of courts have not contributed to any efficiency but the rabbit lies in another bush and the problems are about the efficiency of the trial in something I will talk about later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79310	Replication response, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79311	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Djakic, let me agree with you so that it turns out a little bit. So we raise our voice. Well, of course, this debate is an opportunity to raise your voice. So through public discussion we talked about it, and of course you made your remarks, and I'm talking to the minister. So there was also the mayor's remarks, so the chief. Through this, the minister as a reasonable man means he has classified those proposals. What is important is that throughout the process, I agree with you that we should represent the interests of the area from which we come. But if we're going to be so tough, there won't be any reforms, because then we're going to, I'm going to say from my feed, and then they're going to say if they can't, it's going to have to stay like this. But anyway, this is a good example, and I once again commend the minister to approach the problem and that what you have just shown, and that was simply physical, it was impossible to travel to Požeg because how does it snow over the hills? That's impossible. And in that sense, these remarks have been respected, and that is why I said I welcome this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79312	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the honourable representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79313	It's like we're new, so we don't know each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79314	I'm not looking at who it is, but what it says, and the handwriting is if I may know exactly the handwriting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79315	Okay, Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, I am pleased that today I can direct this debate in a positive sense or rather to comment on the issue of the court in Požega-Slavon County. I come from Požega-Slavon County. I come from the county that has had a court that has been sitting for 200 years, or over 200 years, or rather a court that takes on traits in every form, both external and internal, you have seen pictures, but you have also been in Požeko-Slavon County, so the court which was founded and was the second court in Slavonia and Baranja. We were really in Požega-Slavon County indignant first of all what the former Government had moved the county court to Slavonski Brod, to court, not underestimating either Slavonski Brod or glorifying Požeko-Slavon County, but as I said the court dating over 200 years, the court in Brod-Posavina County for 30, 40 years or I don't know how many and less. But I'm sure we'll talk about it some other time, and I'll ask you tomorrow when there's another government to correct that irregularity and to return the County of Požega-Slavonia to its county. Of course, a colleague named Sagar had just spoken there were tons of people and those who were offensive. Of course, it was for that reason. And that's why I called in to argue that I'm just talking about not making similar mistakes in the future as they've done before. I'm sure that certain items, whether at the county level, were somewhere more, somewhere less. But when it comes to the municipal court, and the suggestions were that from Brod-Posavina County, the municipal court moved to Pozeg, then a turn happened that the municipal court moved to Brod from Požega-Slavon County and, of course, I am grateful for that unity that we have addressed to you and the request not to do so, where in the county we all agreed in the town of Požega at the County Assembly where we had extraordinary meetings where we all agreed not to see who came from the left, who from the right hand, who from other parties where we really showed one unity to the court's headquarters, to those people who work in that court and who have already been known for their judgments, the works that matter to one court. I'm not going to talk maybe I'll mix it up a little bit that today at the County Court in Brod since I don't know 13 for 11 judges from Požega, I'm not going to talk about it. It's a special story. I will return to the institutions that are important for the trial both municipally and countyly, and that is, above all, the prison system that you know. In Pozega where there was a prison for male persons, for female persons, minors, minors, a digestive system, a pension system, we have custody all the necessary so that one and another court would behave their duty. We expressed great regret when we heard that the municipal court would move to Slavonski Brod. By doing so, I assure you, and I am sure that the Požega-Slavon County with such a decision would not have the perspective of that city and the environment it is today in the Republic of Croatia. Her future, her lawyer, her judges would be compromised. No matter what you claim, it'll be a ship's headquarters and it'll work in Požega. It is not the same and I say once again, thank you for your understanding of the appeal of Požega-Slavon County, as well as the City of Požega and the County Assembly. I'm just a little wrong and I'm sorry that here's the memo and the mayor of Požeko-Slavonski Mr. Tomasevic, you disrespected me and verified that you accepted us for one conversation, but again I thank you correctly for listening to this appeal from the people, not us. But I'd rather have talked about it as people, but there'll probably be other opportunities. What I want to say in particular, I will now also talk about the county court and we will continue to seek to return with arguments as you are today inviting a colleague or colleagues from Velika Gorica and I see that you are ready to talk, I would also ask you to welcome us from Požega-Slavon County, to first of all as people talk with arguments. So let's say, look, Mr. Minister, while the court in Požega is with all those institutions, so we have no reason to build a court, we can invest in Požega-Slavon County in court to arrange a little better space. The Požega court has all the elements for both municipal and county. I'm aware that at the county level we don't have enough cases, cases but our court has worked and therefore for other courts, among other things, I think that, don't hold me wrong by word or administrative or constitutional court, but I think it's for administrative, certain cases and has worked cases from other courts exactly where certain activities could not be done in time. So you'd like it so much with the evidence right now, because I had evidence of what I was saying, what I just said, we have a prison system. Today we're driving the same prisoners toward Slavonski Brod 50 km or 45 in one direction, 45 km in another direction. And what happens? We bring the prisoner there, there is no one else who should have appeared, and all together we bring back that at the same time in Slavonski Brod prison system, the pardon court in Slavonski Brod does not have adequate protection measures, there is no yard like the court in Požega-Slavon County or better said in the City of Požega. So much, with all these elements that I'm going to show you, I'm going to prove that we're not talking about the travels of our employees and all the other circumstances that we can prove that the County Court in Požega needs and can survive, so we want to have such a conversation and here I want you to see me as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, to receive the mayor of Požeko-Slavon County and those other people who are important for such a quality conversation. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79316	Thank you too, fellow Lucic. And the last registered representative, Josip Djakic, is a respected representative. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79317	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we've come to an end with this debate on the reorganisation of courts. I can also say that previous discussions both in the ministry and in the county courts conducted with MPs, but also with the public and with the interested public as well as with the profession have nevertheless brought about a fruit of understanding and need in order to continue in the county headquarters, such as this law and the proposed other municipal courts that would have their permanent services in the previous places of municipal courts. I can say that the same goes for a misdemeanor who would also have their own permanent service. And it's one of the good solutions that meets the needs, doesn't lose the county of your municipal court institution. Although there is no county court that has already been shut down, although we can see through a report in this law that speaks about what happened between 2008 and today, it says that the merger of a number of municipal and criminal courts has been carried out continuously in accordance with the deadlines and dynamics of mergers and the provision of spatial, technical and other conditions for the work of courts. The process of bringing the courts together was slow, overpriced, court proceedings continued to persist, and courts overloaded with court cases. That's what's been visible since 2008. I believe that it will continue to be so, that nothing important will happen in the next period, given that there is a reason why this is so. I see it as a person, that those who have been unsupervised so far, will continue to be unsupervised. Judges who don't want to work or who are working on... gas, you can't, you don't have an instrument to make them work faster because you haven't applied it yet. We may not have applied enough instruments, we may need to introduce additional instruments into the law to evaluate their work on cases that will improve the urgency and that in the coming period there would be a little less of those who would file a claim or a lawsuit for inequitable or as it is already called a long-term court procedure that they are not satisfied with. That's what we have to decidently say, what can we do, you as a ministry, and what are we as representatives in the Croatian Parliament who vote for the laws we make? I would say that surely until the second reading will be crystallized to what may be a lack of this law, as my colleagues have said, I will also say that I have only one objection, although I am expressing my doubts and would support this way of design, just with these activities to see what it will bring in the next period, whether it will be a reorganization that will contribute to efficiency, justice, speed of work and whether we will have an effective judicial network as well as a trial. However, I will leave doubt that this reform will not achieve anything better than by joining hospitals with other hospitals to save, to reduce resources, to have savings, we will have no significant impact on anything even though you have said on many occasions it is not important to save but rather to have a proper trial, a quick trial and not to pay fines for what has not been done. I would place those fines on the burden of those who didn't, who kept the items in the drawer for who knows what reasons. Why the state must always be that, and officials as holy cows are untouchable, who actually have the greatest responsibility that objects are not properly done. I welcome your understanding that you have done according to all our demands in our discussions, in the discussions of our mayors and local officials and believe that institutions for each county are the crucial moment of its progress, development and further life. Likewise for the municipalities, but here, this is a minimum that can be accepted for the sake of a reform test that we want to succeed although there are all relevant indications that if not this 2008 reduction so far... some kind of fruit, it will hardly be, with all our efforts, because we clearly see where the key problems are. In Zagreb, Osijek, Split. In these civil courts, as well as in criminal courts, there are also bottlenecks where, if they say how many judges in Zagreb, there are 188 judges, and there are 710 thousand citizens, so 4202 citizens come to one judge, we look at citizens, not cases. It should therefore be a completely different position, and it is not. And I would say that in the work of these officials or judges there is a lack of capacity, a lack of awareness and insufficient work that is not sanctioned by the laws that are here, the President of the Parliament claims that there are opportunities and that there are measures that they can experience if they hold an inappropriate, long object in the drawer, do nothing, bring nothing, maybe not even a hearing has been called up, then there really is doubt. We've seen that in the next item of the agenda will be about the network of state's attorneys, we've seen that some state's attorneys used to keep objects in drawers, so probably the judges, maybe the practice is similar or the same, we don't doubt, but the results of the work show that it is. The results that are united from their offices and feathers in your reports clearly state that something is wrong in Zagreb, Osijek, Split, that there are a bunch of cases for which judges did not bear any responsibility or sanctions, they buried the system and did not respond. Why? And they are citizens in a special section, otherwise they are officials who should be admitted to work, creation, honesty and honesty. And that's how we're supposed to look at them. We should expect them first of all to be the best, the most just, the most professional and the fastest in the work, undertaken in their activities, not to brake the system and generate additional costs. Thank you Minister for everything you've done. My suggestion is that what we talked about on the board, those fateful days on those occasions where it will be necessary, that you install them how and that what is written in the law remains that way, and not that some of them are willing to ask themselves to shut down again, and in law, it is in the new law that the proposal is to become a permanent service. I mean it's really... not to repeat it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79318	Thank you, too, dear colleague Djakic. The closing word of the respected Minister Orsat Milenic on behalf of the proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The closing word can be very short. I thank everyone for the debate. This is one question that remains open that we will try to solve. Maybe just a few accentes, so first the shifts are made. If you're watching, we're going from a million-and-a-half backlog of the case we're now at 778 thousand, so there is. But are we satisfied with 778? No, that's why we have to move on. But that's better than it was. But of course what we're doing right now and what's in front of you is not a reform in the sense that it's the beginning and the end that is it. It's just a small part of it. Agent Kregar said, we have a strategy that we brought in two years ago, this is one of the elements. Here you've voted to remember the Code of Breaking 30% less cases, the charge is multiplely higher, the citizens are quite satisfied. So, what am I saying? We've changed the Law of Prosecution, we've talked about multiple terminations, of course, but only now come the items to which it applies. So we'll only see the results in a year or two. We've changed the CAP, you've been talking about a drawer, now we've put on solid deadlines, but it'll only be seen. So we can't say what was before, I'm telling you how it'll be in perspective. So that's all the dice we're putting together in the mosaic that these 778 grand would be a lot less than it is now, so we're going towards it. We will also bring about an amendment to other regulations that will be a package where some things about accountability will be more clearly defined. Of course, we must be aware of the Constitution and how the Constitution has set certain things and what is the scope of the executive authority and it must not enter the court. So there's a kind of self-control on fate, and there's a pressure we have to do, I'd say it's going to be as high-level as possible, but not pressure in terms of influence. So we're going to bring a whole series of regulations that will speed things up. But it doesn't end that story, and there's a question of misdemeanors in the perspective and trade where we have great backlogs, and there's some things maybe even in the litigation process that can put collective lawsuits in a different way, so let's say there are all kinds of things, but we agree with the dice. And the situation is tomorrow, or today, than it was yesterday, and it'll be even better. But that's good, we're all aware that our citizens aren't happy, and neither are we, and that's why we have to move on. I mean, it's a basic idea. Only one line, the county court is not realistic that we're going to increase them, but we can sit down, talk numbers. Let's do some things in continuity. Why do we say... it's 2008 not because we just don't go back to the way things were, let's move on. Was it supposed to be then? Maybe it was supposed to be the other way around, maybe these reasons that you're talking about and it just turned out that way, that's what I think in 2010 and that's how it turned out. And now where are we? Here. We're not going to mix cards again with what we have to do best. We want Croatia that will develop throughout, so we leave 15 justice areas. Not every county has a county court, but that's how we found it. Let's develop them, we didn't go to end them so it could be five, which we could do mathematically. But this isn't a matter of justice and it's not a matter that can be done mathematically, it has to be monitored what's on the ground, the whole country has to develop. That's why we accepted the proposal that was coming to leave the county, so by county these basic courts are also being developed. The judiciary is important in terms of one intellectual compactity in the area, etc. So here we are absolutely. One is mathematics, I can now justify you eliminating 30, 40% more than what is now, but we have demographic reasons, we have the development of the country, etc. Let's all develop and listen to each other. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-22-0.u79320	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate under this bill, and now we're gonna stop. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. at 6 p.m. It's a proposal for a law on areas and headquarters of the State's Attorney's Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 668. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, First Reading, P.Z. No. 667. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposals of the Croatian Parliament's working bodies, and I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour and 30 abstentions.
