ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80025	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and parliamentary representatives, you have before you the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Cooperatives, which aims to improve both the establishment and functioning of the cooperative system and, above all, the transformation of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives into the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, and, I must say, one operational and functional and modern organisation that is able to support cooperatives in these constant changes in the economic market. The Croatian Parliament adopted a decision declaring the Law on the Introduction of the European Cooperative as early as 2008 and the law began to apply from 01.07.2013 and last amendments to the Cooperative Law last year completed the harmonisation with the EU legal legislation. Dear parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives, here we are before we go into this review of the fundamental changes and the addition of this law, allow me a few words about the very importance of co-operatives for the economy of the Republic of Croatia and the EU economy. Cooperatives have significant potential as an instrument of socio-economic reintegration, play a common, large and significant role in increasing employment and living standards, low-income groups and ultimately strengthening the reconstruction and development of a single community. Association in cooperatives opens the door for small entrepreneurs to go to new markets, expand production, improve product profitability and quality, ensure of course new jobs and therefore it can be said that cooperative entrepreneurship can represent an important mechanism for overall economic development. Quality linkage and management of cooperatives leads to better business efficiency and members of cooperatives and improve product quality and visibility, but ultimately results in greater consumer satisfaction and greater sales. Association of cooperative members increases competitiveness and opens up the ability to go to new markets. In addition, there is a great potential within the cooperative sector that contributes to improving local and regional development because cooperative members are usually concentrated within a particular local community. Cooperatives of all types of activities in the Republic of Croatia are today organized in several regional and professional alliances and are necessarily members of the Croatian Associations. Such a huge alliance brings together a variety of cooperatives of all kinds of activities, agricultural, fishing, crafts, service, social, housing and such, and often the work and functioning of the cooperative system makes it very complex, because of the different interests of the member often find common effective solutions that would suit all. The assembly is also difficult to hold because of the electoral system of selecting various representatives. There are no simple, universal and forever-given solutions that will be equally and applied in all economic circumstances, nor can the same business practice be easily imitated from one country to another and therefore new and better solutions and methods of work and according to today's moment and time are needed to offer new solutions, new ways of doing business, especially communicating cooperatives with the market, and therefore these amendments and additions to the Cooperative Law have been made. Co-operation in the Republic of Croatia has almost 150-year tradition. The last 20 years of the adoption of the Cooperative Law, and in 1995 there are really significant mechanisms that support the establishment and operation of cooperatives. Given the characteristics of cooperatives and the way in which business is based on 7 cooperative principles applied throughout the world in cooperative business, the development of cooperatives in Croatia can play an important role in encouraging key factors closely related to sustainable economic and social development, including one larger, safer, better form of employment. Cooperatives themselves create employment, but also encourage and help to maintain employment in other entrepreneurship structures. There is also promotion, honor, justice, employment rights and participation in employment. There is also support for social inclusion and poverty reduction, as well as accelerated and stronger rural development, the improvement of the sector. So cooperatives help connect agriculture, small economy and public services with safe markets and newest technologies and innovations and ensure that these services are maintained and improved for well-wide communities. Social confirmation and promotion of greater equality and justice in the community are important, strengthening solidarity and building social capital. Co-operatives promote and support a high level of local cooperation, the accumulation of social capital and solidarity both by their ethical, state-owned approach and by their daily cooperative working practice and association with the community. An analysis of the work of cooperatives suggests that there is still a negative attitude towards cooperatives as an inheritance from some past times, but also a lack of recognition of the importance of cooperatives even in institutions and administrative bodies. All of this reflects the business of cooperatives which further requires a detailed analysis and requires further work on the promotion of cooperatives to show the cooperative what it really is in Europe and the world, and this is a desirable form of economic action. Allow for some information and on the state of co-operation in the EU. Today, there are around 250,000 cooperatives in the EU with 163 million cooperatives who employ around 5.4 million people. The importance of cooperatives in the EU economy is also visible in significant market shares, in the various sectors of most EU member states such as in the agricultural sector 83% in the Netherlands, 79% in Finland, 55% in Italy, in forestry 60% in Sweden, 31% in the Finnish, banking sector, say 50% in France, 31% in Austria, 21% in Germany, retail sales of consumer cooperatives in Finland have a market share of 36%, in Sweden 20%, in the pharmaceutical sector 21% in Spain, 18% in Belgium. According to research conducted by the Cooperatives of Europe 2012 the most cooperatives are registered in Italy and they have a share of almost 15% in the total economy, followed by Spain and France. What's in the Republic of Croatia? Almost 1,200 cooperatives with around 19,500 cooperative members and 2,700 employees operate in the Republic of Croatia today. The largest number according to tradition is, of course, in forestry agriculture about 40% more precisely, 444 cooperatives with approximately 8,000 cooperatives. Then in the processing industry, services, but in particular one development of fishing cooperatives should be highlighted. In recent years, we can also say the most pro-pulsory sector in co-operation as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned. These amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act are changing, so we can say an outdated approach to gathering all entities under one roof organisation, regardless of the activity, size or desire of association cooperatives. And I stress that there is no new organisation or new agency being created, but the existing Croatian Union is transformed into a Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship. The Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship is a public institution which is operationally continuing to work with cooperatives at the level of communication with cooperatives and cooperative alliances, direct contacts on the ground, solving cooperative problems, providing professional assistance, organisation, education, promotion of cooperative products and, of course, by connecting with all other institutions. The Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship is an institution that will take care of cooperatives at the level of legal regulations, keep records of registered cooperatives which again form the basis for different analyses, education, promotion of cooperatives. The system is not yet sufficiently developed to function without such an institution. Without a joint cooperative organization, we can say in the wind of various laws that do not recognize cooperativeism as a speciality even to this day. And it is necessary to just build a consistent legislative framework where cooperatives with all their specialities would be recognised. We are still talking about the need to recognise cooperatives as a great potential in the economy in all areas from employment to social, and we have said specifically the importance of cooperatives and local communities. When we talk about the financing of the Croatian Centre of Joint Entrepreneurship, we do not require any additional funding, but also mention that the financing of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives over the past 10 years amounted to slightly more than 12 million kuna, somewhere around 1.2 million kuna per year. In 2014, 800,000 kuna was secured in the state budget, so there is a reduction in the burden of the state budget by 33%, and this reduction will be in the coming years as well. Therefore, not by abolishing but by gradually reducing funds from the state budget, the centre has a transitional period to prepare for the provision of services on the market. The Centre has public authority and a certain amount from the state budget will continue to be paid to ensure the exercise of public authority, but with this reduction, and the rest of its revenues will be achieved on the market by providing services to cooperatives and cooperative alliances in the production of projects, education, the provision of advisory services in the area of cooperative development, the promotion of cooperatives, cooperative alliances on the market, the provision of assistance in the networking and integration of cooperatives and cooperative alliances. When we talk about cooperative alliances, they continue their work in the present form. They remain cooperative associations according to activity or region, e.g. The Croatian Agricultural Association, the Association of Dalmatia and their primary purpose remain to connect related cooperatives and encourage their networking. Because cooperative alliances should be the basis for a step of cooperatives on the wider European and world market, certainly with the help of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship. A few words about the activities of the Centre for Joint Entrepreneurship. So he runs an up-to-date cooperative register, together with information from the Trade Court Register and the FINA, conducts cooperation, assistance to cooperatives, cooperative associations, external associates, organises and conducts education, consultations in the field of cooperativery, promotion of cooperative entrepreneurship, marketing activities, promotion of cooperative goods and services, of course international and interinstitutional cooperation in the field of cooperativeism in the Republic of Croatia, promotion of cooperation between cooperatives and cooperative alliances in order to further connect them, establish new, better, quality business relations on the market. The Centre has the status of public institutions with the tasks and powers laid down in this law, statutes and other general acts of the Centre, with the keeping of records of cooperatives and cooperative alliances of public authority and confirmations of all beliefs and any documents that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship will issue under public authority will have the property of public documents. And just for a while, the authorities of the centre represent the administrative council and the director, and members of the board of directors, except the representatives of the workers, appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The president proposes the ministry responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts, and by one member, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds. One member is a member of the centre's staff, so that is one amendment from the government passed last week. They're all named for a four-year term. They can be re-appointed. A representative of the centre staff will be selected in a manner prescribed by the general rules on work. The Director shall be appointed by the Administrative Board by means of a public tender and in accordance with the provisions of both this law and the Statute of the Centre itself. When we talk about the independence and discharge of the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship, we must say the following. By abolishing mandatory membership in the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives, cooperatives are relieved of the parafiscal burden of paying mandatory membership fee and thus exempting the financial operations of cooperatives for over 800,000 kuna. Cooperatives were also obliged to reinvest 30% of the profits achieved in the further development of cooperatives. These changes reduce the obligation to reinvest the cooperative's profits to 20%. Therefore, if the assessment that these cooperatives will receive 57 million in 2014 by reducing the rate of compulsory reinvested profits, it is estimated that this will bring savings to cooperatives of around 6 million kuna. Therefore, respecting the current economic environment of cooperatives, on the one hand, leaves greater freedom to decide on the schedule of profits, but on the other hand, it also ensures continued strengthening through mandatory separation for the development of cooperatives and thus strengthens their economic position on the market. And maybe just a few more details of technical nature. Provisions relating to supervision and infringements relating to cooperative principles and values shall be repealed. Cooperatives as a social person operate according to the principles and values of cooperatives which are the basis for the success of the cooperative model. The principles are not regulations but the heritage of cooperatives, and the legislator's intention is to ensure and promote them through the application of education in the cooperative system, rather than by taking some additional supervisory, infringement measures, by applying more to cooperatives as well as to other legal persons all relevant business supervisions. It shall also determine the implementation of the procedure for eradicating cooperatives from the Register of Commercial Courts under official duty in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Court Register and those cooperatives which did not comply with the provisions of the Cooperative Act. That procedure seeks to achieve real insight into the real state of active cooperatives that have adapted their business to the Cooperative Act. In conclusion, this proposal changes and complements the Cooperatives Act aims primarily to create greater opportunities for the development of entrepreneurship business, allow for more active participation of cooperatives to stop the population from moving and create entrepreneurship opportunities in areas that are not sufficiently developed. We have already said, to improve the structure and functioning of the cooperative system, to enhance, to highlight the specificities of cooperative work in relation to companies, because although in some segments cooperatives work and operate as companies because of respect for cooperative principles and cooperative values of cooperatives, they also have their differences, such as non-profit cooperatives which aim at association, to achieve common immaterial benefits for members such as social cooperatives, working societies and the like. Cooperatives not only need to be successful in business, but also have to be taken into account and evaluated by some other benefits resulting from the cooperative’s work, to unite the economic, social interests of cooperative members and only so can they remain on the market. The establishment of a cooperative and its business must be an expression of the common interests of its members, the value of the cooperative form of business, in that I repeat once again, with the economic objectives of the care, of the social interests of the members, which indirectly creates a benefit for the local community in which it operates. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws will solve both those problems and those shortcomings in the current regulation that have been established in practice, the cooperatives will receive an appropriate environment for their work which is appropriate for both current and current circumstances and will create an incentive framework for strengthening the competitiveness of cooperatives. For let us not forget the basic objective of the entrepreneurship development strategy in 2013/2012. It is precisely strengthening the competitiveness of small-economic operators and cooperatives. Cooperatives gather individuals, groups that link common interests, direct them into business through a system that reduces the grey economy. Cooperatives are a road to self-employment, employment which is particularly important for economic, underdeveloped areas where the use of local resources can exclusively be used in a sustainable economy through cooperatives. The cooperative model is fully and fully in line with the Europe 2020 Strategy, hence the European Smart Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Strategy. What is ahead of us on the development of cooperatives? First of all, the Cooperative Development Strategy and the use of EU funds. Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts preparation and development of the Cooperative Development Strategy 2014/20. with a view to strengthening the competitiveness of cooperatives through further increasing membership in cooperatives, strengthening production, service capacities, facilitating access to funding sources and, of course, continued education of members and cooperative administrations, as well as other stakeholders involved in the development of cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. Allow very short only some of the basic objectives of the strategy, which are to increase the competitiveness of Croatian cooperatives through their association. We've already said easier, better access to sources of funding. Therefore, developing financial opportunities in such a way as to increase their availability, but also to introduce some new forms of funding, strengthen the use of entrepreneurship support institutions, entrepreneurship centres, technology parks, regional development agencies that should definitely and more so far be support to cooperatives and advices and education for entrepreneurship by activities in providing assistance, project applications and the like. Promotion of cooperatives and the establishment of new types of cooperatives, education for entrepreneurship, so the education of cooperative administrations, the promotion of education, the promotion of student cooperatives as something very important, better business integration of cooperatives and their information, branding of cooperative products and regional integration of cooperatives. Finally, the alignment of the legislative and institutional framework. Often laws do not recognise cooperatives as specialities, therefore there is uncertainty in the business of cooperatives. And that's why this law introduces order. In many countries where cooperatives are accepted as a good economic form of cooperative organisation, they also have special treatment in the tax system, in the employment system and in many other specificities, where there is a system of control in these countries, the verification of cooperatives that operate on cooperative principles, and only so can they benefit from the advantages of certain cooperatives. So this is something that follows in the Cooperative Development Strategy for the period 2014/20. It will also serve as a basis for attracting funds from EU funds for the development of cooperative entrepreneurship. Total financial, programme financial envelope 2014/20. talks about almost 2 billion euros at the disposal of the Croatian small economy. What is a very important and important part will certainly be related to the further development of cooperative entrepreneurship. And allow it to be concluded. The Ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts in cooperation with other ministries and other relevant bodies will continue to develop cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia through the creation of a single incentive framework, the integration and networking of cooperatives, the promotion of education in cooperatives, the promotion of cooperativeship as definitely and desirable and competitive forms of economic action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80026	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner, Vice President of the House. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80027	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Deputy Minister, and after your presentation to me, it's not quite clear to me what I didn't understand before, which is why this law was urgently passed. So, you yourself said you were preparing a Croatian cooperative strategy, obviously you have some visions. Now you've been lying to them for five or seven minutes. Wasn't it more logical to make the first strategy and then eventually go into change? This change is just to say very clearly another change in eight months. Last 27.09. Last year, the same emergency procedure required a law on amendments and additions to the Cooperative Act and one and the other, and this today's proposal actually comes down to the fact that the Government, or the Ministry, wants to manage cooperatives. So again, one centralization because the first proposal also came down to the fact that the minister was actually taking power over the order he was actually going to appoint a commission, a representative actually assembly that must then make a decision, etc., to carry out the selection process of the representative assembly. All these deadlines have passed, the minister did not actually do this electoral right and imposed law realised, and now even more is being centralized and now a single state body is actually being established and instead of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives as a company of persons we will have one state body with public powers directly in the government's authority. And obviously that centralization is the meaning of everything, no matter what a strategy is doing and obviously has some vision of the development of cooperatives. I don't think that's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80028	Thank you, too. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80029	Dear Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, I can agree with you that further development of cooperative entrepreneurship is extremely important for the development of the Croatian economy. However, I would say something similar to my predecessor. I really expect you to explain to me why this influence of the state, or government, in the area of cooperativeism? In fact, I would agree with the thesis that it was necessary to adopt a strategy rather than immediately go to law-making by emergency procedure. However, it is not clear what it was necessary for the government to enter the Association Alliance, which is now renamed the Croatian Association Centre, which has a board of directors, which operates as a public institution. Members of the Governing Council shall be appointed by the Government. So, basically, the government kind of controls cooperatives, which is completely contrary to the meaning of the very establishment of cooperatives. Furthermore, I ask you a question if by means of an alliance so far, if the new centre becomes a legal follower of the alliance then it becomes a legal follower of property. It's the property of an associate. It turns out that this is how the government will dispose of members of the Governing Council with the property of cooperatives. I'm asking you to explain it to me, and I hope you'll make me feel better about what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80030	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80031	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said this law was passed. changes and additions to improve and transform cooperatives, all in order to improve the functioning of work and creation. In fact, we can see that in this law in amendments and additions there is a lot of legal inadequacy and indeterminateness, the ultimate result is very easy to predict. Cooperatives and cooperative alliances lose influence on the creation of measures of economic, social and tax policies related to cooperatives. There are also certain abuses that want to be covered up since the Alliance of Cooperatives has not held the assembly since 2011. There is also what has already been mentioned by my colleagues and colleagues, and this is clearly set to appoint the representative assembly as the committee of those who will hold it, appointed by the minister. It is clear that it wants to influence everything that is happening in cooperatives, that the cooperative model of the so far that has functioned is not as a provision nor as a penalty, and the principles, the values of cooperatives that are the basis of the cooperative model, have lost their meaning, the cooperative will have no meaning. It should be recalled that cooperative principles are voluntary and open membership. That this is business surveillance by members, that this is the economic participation of cooperative members and the distribution of independence and independence, education and professional training, informing cooperative members, cooperation among cooperatives, community care. All these are the principles that have been in so far the law that no longer exists as we see it. The direct toy of the competent minister who has put himself in a position to decide will be as uncut as it was in the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80032	Thank you very much. Fourth replica, Honored Representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Pross, in your opening statement, you said that the association of cooperatives creates an improvement in the quality of the ability to go to the outside markets if I followed well, and then you said that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship is a public institution, although it is not seen here that this is also harmonised under the Law on Public Institutions. I don't think so. Today in the Croatian Parliament we should actually talk about the analysis of the cooperative system, the report on the work of the Croatian Association, perhaps the European model of cooperative society, and here it is also said in the strategy for the development of cooperative entrepreneurship from 2014 to 2020. In one part you brought out a partnership of cooperatives related to the EU saying that about 800 million are actually people related to cooperatives and then you talked about these sectoral parts, but you forgot to actually say that since 2011, the number of cooperatives has fallen by nearly 1800. They're now somewhere around 1300 in the Republic of Croatia. I think that should have been emphasized. The number of employees is somewhere around 2800, the revenues themselves were about a billion and 900 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80034	Fifth Replication Honored Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80035	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, it seems to me that these amendments to the law are once again increasing bureaucratic apparatus, that one body is once again being created that will eventually be vegetated, spent budget money and, of course, money automatically and those for which it is established. And the argument for what I'm saying now gives me one of your sentences where you said that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship will coordinate and connect the work of development agencies and entrepreneurship centres. Sincerely speaking, entrepreneurs in Croatia no longer know what kind of centres and agencies they have that are founded at local or state levels and they don't really know who to contact anymore, but in the end they know they won't get anything there. On Saturday I was in the company of 25 to 30 entrepreneurs in the town of Križevci and then I asked them a question, please raise your hand which of you used the services of the Centre for Entrepreneurship or Development Agency, you know how many they said, one of them said half-way. These are the institutions we establish. And I'm afraid this is going to be, I'm not even afraid, this is going to be another such institution and this institution, actually, like the colleagues already did, and they're going to throw the cooperative back again, and the machine will increase bureaucratically, and there won't be any benefits. Co-operatives, producers need to be stimulated to join themselves and not stopped. And just one question, how many new bureaucrats are there going to be at that center? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80036	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker, Sixth Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80037	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, what is the basic taste of this amendment to the law? The abolition of a voluntary association and the creation of a new state body in a country where everyone says that administrative obstacles should be removed we create administrative ones. Because the logical thing is that individuals, companies, groups unite to achieve some goals, and so the cooperatives had their community, the community, because they had some goals, economic, such as that, to come to a better and better business. However, the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship and this government, after hitting Croatia's crafts chamber, after trying to hit the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, has now come to order and the Association. So what kind of message are we sending? To literally forbid people to team up. Secondly, let us not forget that certain things from the past offer some antagonism, as well as these cooperatives, especially as regards farmers, are in any way a negative association, and today it is very difficult for farmers to gain in any cooperative. What started, this nuke of some cooperative association, so where certain barriers wanted to collapse and show that this cooperative association could bring something good, the Ministry of crafts definitely collapses. What logic is if someone joins them in something that the minister determines who will be their president, who will be their president, how will they do, what will they do, how will they have to do with those good things that they make and a series of other decisions that simply belong to those who made it happen? Who takes the right to deploy someone's money if he hasn't been involved in it at all? But obviously this government and this minister are taking that right, and then you'll see what this cooperative will look like. Instead of supporting people to be competitive on this global market, we unfortunately crash that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80038	The Honorable Representative, Đuro Puplic drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, most of what I was about to say was said by the predecessors, but we should point out one more time. So, Mr. Deputy, you said this Croatian Centre of Joint Entrepreneurship would be the legal successor of the Croatian Union of Cooperatives. It just can't be, because it has nothing to do with each other. Therefore, the Croatian Association was a professional association of those who were members of that body, meaning cooperatives dealing exclusively with private business regardless of what economic activity it is a couple of excellence forms of private entrepreneurship. They teamed up with cooperatives and all together formed the Croatian Union of Cooperatives and managed it through a assembly made up of members, from cooperatives and members of cooperatives and elected the president of the Croatian Association Union and managed it. What you're doing, that's what your colleagues have mentioned before, you're doing a completely pointless and unnecessary public institution that will edit relations within the cooperatives. You've done a lot of things so far, but this is nonsense over what you've done so far. So, what does this have to do with what you are now, this plant that you are now working on, so the Croatian Centre of Joint Entrepreneurship, which will be managed by the Minister of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, in which there will be and in whose council, the Governing Council will be some representatives of some ministries, but let's say there is no Minister, or Representative of the Minister of Economy. Apparently, relations either work here or not in the ruling coalition. So despite everything you've been saying that you're going to work to improve relations within cooperatives, that you're going to strengthen their activity, you're actually I'm sorry. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80040	Thank you very much. Is that an answer? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want? Yeah. Dear Igor Radjenović, representative on behalf of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80041	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just say a few sentences, to make a statement on the discussion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, so on this proposal to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act. The Committee on the Economy held a somewhat unusual discussion at its two meetings on this item of the agenda, so at its 40th and 41st meetings, the Committee was actually asked for a number of additional information and information on this proposal of the law and asked a number of questions, so at its 40th session, the Committee unanimously concluded that the vote in the proposal for this law had to be postponed, and ordered the applicant to take into account the debate and the questions raised, provided additional data supported by figures, analyses of cooperatives in the Republic. For the 41st session held 7 days later, the applicant provided these data and detailed arguments containing the main objectives of the cooperative development strategy for the period from 2014 to 2020, in a good part the Deputy Minister also spoke about in the opening presentation and I believe he will speak further. However, the final board decided, after having held its discussions at two sessions, by a majority of votes, with 7 votes against and 3 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Cooperatives in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80042	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative of Nenad Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80043	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. An impressive introduction to the interpretation of the law, but something already known as me because last year at the 9th month we discussed cooperatives by emergency procedure, and the main reason was to explain this urgent procedure, which is changes in the way the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives functioned. Therefore, the way in which the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives was managed was changed by introducing a representative assembly, a supervisory board and a board of directors. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Cooperative Act, I would say as a second reading of this 9-month reading, as well as an emergency procedure. Why? The explanation says that financial discharge and facilitate the business of cooperatives and ensure more effective institutional support for the development and strengthening of the model of cooperative entrepreneurship through the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship instead of the Croatian Association of Cooperatives so far. The abolition of mandatory membership and the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship facilitates business, is exempt from parafiscal burden, compulsory membership fees and improves their business, reduces the compensation for the development of cooperatives to 20%, this is for reinvestment, which in some ways can be welcomed. The assessment of the situation and the basic issues which they have settled in the current law said, in order to cooperate with European cooperatives, the same rules of organisation and consistent implementation of cooperative values and principles are necessary, and therefore the law introduces sanctions for non-compliance with cooperative principles and values, orderly supervision of cooperative operations and the signing of rules and acts of cooperatives. In the assessment of the situation of this law, however, the proposed amendments and additions of the Cooperative Act are primarily made to conditions for a more effective system of institutional support through the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship and provisions concerning supervision and infringements relating to cooperative principles and values are abolished. We first imposed sanctions for non-compliance with cooperative principles and values, and now these laws are being abolished. For us, it is a fig leaf for the introduction of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, a public institution without compulsory membership, and membership is becoming smaller and if we do not analyse the state of cooperatives before the entry into force of the Cooperatives and Status Act to 31.12.2012. when most of the co-ordination procedures are completed, it is evident that the number of cooperatives recorded in the register is reduced almost to half while the number of cooperatives decreased by 36%, the number of employees by 36% and the profit of cooperatives by 13%. In the assessment of the state of Croatian cooperative tradition we grew by 10 years in a year, last year we had a 140-year tradition, this year we have a 150-year tradition. So as we blow years of tradition, so in the assessment of the situation and increased the number of cooperatives, members of cooperatives and employees of cooperatives, and the Croatian Union of cooperatives in the analysis of the cooperative system until 31.12.2013 says that these figures are still less, we have heard from the Deputy Minister that it is 1169 cooperatives, 19 485 cooperatives and 2734 employees. The funds for the operation and operation of the centre shall be provided from income and property, service, support, donations and other sources. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure about that, because by removing the mandatory membership fee, the funds for the centre's work are reduced, and the centre will have a director who will not be a volunteer but will work for the salary as well as all the employees of the centre. The cooperative is a voluntary, open, independent and independent society managed by its members, not a ministry through the director and board of directors, where representatives of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, Committee, Agriculture, Regional Development and Defence will sit. The basic principles are voluntary and open membership, independent management of members, autonomy and independence. We have heard something, about 250 thousand cooperatives are operating in the EU and employs about 5.4 million people. The application of the cooperative values of the principle has significantly affected the development of cooperative society and made it an essential factor in the economy. The profile of cooperatives is not the primary thing, the primary thing is to satisfy the benefits of the cooperatives themselves, which primarily must not be financial, but social, social, organisational, advisory and benefits. If the indicator of the share of employees in the cooperative sector rose to 2% of the total working population, the cooperative sector in the Republic of Croatia would count about 30,000 employees. But these frequent amendments to the law lead to the reduction of the number of cooperatives as well as the number of employees. Essential changes to the ministry were only going towards establishing cooperative control. When the initial changes did not receive the expected results, new changes were made to establish public institutions of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship. In accordance with these changes, Articles 49, 50, 54.b are changed while changes in cosmetic nature remain. And to conclude, the amendments and additions to this law do not contribute to the more successful functioning of cooperatives, but exclusively serves to keep this ministry in control of cooperatives and to arrest its staff through public institutions. If we continue to pass these laws of new amendments and the additions of the Cooperative Act by the end of the term of office of this Government, we will certainly discuss it several more times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80044	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative Mladen Marelic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80045	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Dance, you were wrong when you said that 10 years had been taken down... by the first cooperative. We know that the cooperative was first formed in 1864, so it's 150 years and it's good in writing. And that's what we discussed at the 9th month when we had a bill. Also the efficiency of the Association of Croatia, we all know what it is and that it challenges the work of the regional alliances themselves with its work. And I think it's a good thing that the ministry came to put it in a position once that farmers I speak now because a lot of cooperatives of large cooperatives that are involved in the Association at the level of the region and the Croatian Union are left in this way cut off in the work of the Croatian Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80046	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80047	I'd like to thank my colleague on the line. But if you took the law that was passed at the 9th month last year and compared it to this law then you'd see that it says that the tradition of co-operation in the Republic of Croatia last year was 140 years, and this year, in the light of the law, it says that tradition is 150 years, and we can agree on this second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80048	Honorable representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80049	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I agree with your critical remarks on this law and perhaps just one more accent. The Croatian Union of Cooperatives is again one way to implement its kind of nationalisation of the property of a single alliance, because the Croatian Union of Cooperatives is therefore withdrawn and the financial resources, rights and obligations will all be taken away from one independent body by association of cooperatives and nationalised in a different way and given in the possession of one state agency, the government body and that should be made very clear. This is another step further along with everything that has been done badly with the cooperative entrepreneurship from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention Act where an unemployed cooperative cannot receive compensation while he is unemployed and until the Pension Insurance Act where the Cooperative Manager is forced to have pension insurance, which means banning pensioners from being managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80050	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80051	I'd like to thank my colleague Reiner. So, just because the Ministry is involved in cooperatives, we can assume that there can be nationalisation of assets because when there is no dependence and that cooperatives can manage their own work and their assets, then it can really be tolerated that by stopping the work of these cooperatives or possibly shutting down equipment and nationalised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80052	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Pese, just a few things that I think should be mentioned even though my colleague Marelić has already said some of the parts I wanted to say and underline. First of all, you were talking about statistics on the reduction in the number of cooperatives and the like, we have to bear in mind that cooperative action is one of the forms of economic action and that it is subject to economic trends. So it's understandable and it's downsizing. As far as the law itself is concerned, I believe he is promoting the legal framework in which cooperatives operate. And while you are talking about the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, which is inherited by the Alliance of Cooperatives, you did not mention that mandatory membership is abolished in this way, that cooperatives are so relieved of the parafiscal burden. You did not mention that there is a reduction in the obligation to allocate and record amounts for ensuring sustainability and further development of cooperatives from 30% to 20%, thus creating a framework for further incentives for investments in cooperatives. This law, however, brings a series of improvements that should make it easier for cooperatives to operate them, especially because the economy as well as any social activity is changing and the laws as such should monitor these changes and adapt to the existing conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80054	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80055	Well, colleague Hajdukovic, I'll start with this membership, 20% for the reinvested profit because if you'd listened well to my debate, then you might have noticed that I mentioned it. And statistics themselves tell us the fact that the number of cooperatives is decreasing, and by passing the law by emergency procedure, by half a year or by eight months, the relaw by emergency procedure probably leads to the number of cooperatives being reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80056	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I agree with your findings regarding the assessment of the situation or the necessary means for the need of this law. In fact, the proposal for a law that is final states that no new funds will be needed. I agree with you that it's to assume that it's not quite true. Namely, if mandatory membership is abolished which I think is as good as here is one, the abolition of a parafiscal charge which is in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. However, the number of employees in the center of us at this moment is unknown. Where will the funds for their salaries come from, we assume from the state budget. And if it will be people who will be representatives first and foremost of the ministries or the number of employees who will perform different other jobs is currently unknown. So he thinks the assessment of the necessary resources is absolutely unrealistic. And that's something we can't agree to. And in this debate, we need to get an answer especially in a situation where we have major problems with filling or implementing the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80058	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80059	Well, colleague Kosor, I thank you for the replica, and I'm glad we agree on your point of view. Because when membership funds are reduced and cooperatives are likely to fall and their economic activity will not have enough funds to pay. So far, there were employees there, they had a president, and they were getting personal incomes. However, now that we have the office of director, this personal income will probably represent a greater amount than one of the presidents of the Croatian Union of Cooperatives, and now the number of employees is probably coming along with the director and all that is needed by one quality director. So I doubt the funds in the state budget will need any other additional funds for the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80060	Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80061	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you said that in your final part of the exposure, and I agree that it is not the main cause of the establishment of cooperatives exclusively profit. However, what we must say is that there are now over 800 million cooperative members in the world and about 100 million employees in these cooperatives, which is 20% more than all multinational companies. It can also be said that 3 billion people live on a cooperative basis. So, although profit is not the main goal is very important and this is what counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic said in his replica that, above all, cooperatives are engaged in economic activity. Since the aim and promotion at the end and the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship is to make such economic activities as successful as possible. And since cooperatives and increasingly focus on many other areas of activity, then I think it's very good and you've turned out to be very good that there is a body with public powers to control the work of associations. When it's said to control, then think and help, it means to subport in everything that associations are supposed to have today. Because I think even my colleague Hrg before he said one of the things is the same so that many people don't report to competitions, they don't report to all of them to accept all the opportunities they have, they just don't have enough information. In that sense, this center can make it possible for them to do so. Just for the end, every system if, I'm otherwise, in principle I think the system that's open to out is better than the system that's self-control inside. Because as soon as he's subject to self-control on the inside, he's actually blocking many of those who would like to get involved in that system. I think this way the system opens up to the outside and all those who have ideas, who have opportunities, can participate in that, in that kind of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80062	The answer to the line, the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80063	Comrade Sagar, here I am going from the end of your line, to the control outside. Even so, the Croatian Union of Cooperatives had their own control. Also outside, also through the president, the board of directors, the Supervisory Board. And as for employment, I would like it to be employment, and I mentioned it in my debate if it only increased 2% to the total active population in order to be 30% employees. And as a party that we stand for work, I think it would be very good in that direction. You mentioned that in the world... employees, but probably also in other countries where the cooperative is active, are likely to pass laws and that law is followed and laws are not passed every 6 or 8 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80064	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80065	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Dance, you were talking about the principles of cooperativeism that everyone requires attention for himself, but the one where you spoke about autonomy should especially underline it. Of course, you also spoke of the importance of cooperativeism as to what we are witnessing in Europe if the importance of both the economy and the number of employees contribute. Of course, with us, the situation is far more difficult, the number of cooperatives is failing. Surely the reasons, I speak from my position, from the village's position are multilayered. But those wounds that they left behind and those unpleasant experiences that were in the past must have left behind the consequences. But look now and in these circumstances, in order to survive in agriculture, our farmers are thinking, thinking about this cooperative in order to sort of preserve production, to survive. And they're thinking very actively, in order to, of course, use certain resources from that, from measures of rural development that will be nothing this year. There won't be anything, but that's where it's said. And now here you're talking here, and now the most important thing is that center for it. So the most important thing is to improve this cooperative, to facilitate it, to loosen it, to think about who's going to be where and how it's going to work, it certainly won't make it easier and more cooperative. And again that same thesis as in the country, our people have, I say don't just help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80066	The answer to the line, the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80067	Thank you. Col. Milinkovic, yes, if the principles of cooperative society were respected, cooperatives would probably work differently and prosper better than that. It's like this if it's a center, if it's an alliance. We from these jobs that should now take over the center of the alliance don't see any difference. What he's been doing so far is now going to be taken over by the center. It's just going to be a different name. It's going to be some other person. And the cooperative is standing in our place, the tap, instead of allowing them to help people to put an end to this term of association and that cooperatives have the same meaning that they have in the world as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80068	Thank you, too. The Club of Representatives at the Croatian Assembly of the Croatian National Assembly and the Honorable Representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80069	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, respected and respected colleagues and colleagues. The Cooperative Act regulates cooperatives as forms of legal and economic entities represented in all activities, respecting international cooperative principles on which cooperatives are based as an entrepreneurial model of association. Although the law, or even though the law in this House on the introduction of a European cooperative, was passed in 2008, it has been applicable since the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, means since last year. When we talk about Croatian cooperatives, although we have heard here today several different attitudes, years etc., Croatian cooperative with 150 years tradition, and today in the Republic of Croatia there are nearly 1200 cooperatives with about 20,000 members and about 3000 employees. But looking at the potential we have, above all, at agricultural cooperatives and at the possibility of joint association, we are only at the beginning, or at the beginning of using that potential. The objective of the cooperative is not only to gain profits, but also to achieve well-being and benefits from the interests of the cooperative members and the local community in which the cooperative operates. Cooperatives have multiple positive effects, as they gather individuals and groups that link common interests, facilitate, facilitate and involve different small business operators and provide their members with certain advantages as a result of a greater volume of production and business through cooperatives, they achieve business results with significant savings. Cooperatives are also a road for self-employment and employment, which is particularly important for economically underdeveloped areas where the use of local resources can be directed towards sustainable economic development of the local community through cooperatives. This proposal amends and complements the Cooperative Act improves existing solutions and creates conditions for further development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, creates conditions for a more effective system of institutional support through the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, reduces obligations, allocates and registers the amount of sustainability insurance and further development of the cooperative from 30% to 20%, as soon as the framework for further encouraging investments in cooperatives is created. The abolition of compulsory membership and the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship facilitates business, is exempt from the parafiscal burden of compulsory membership and improves their business. This law aims to create a more quality and efficient institutional framework for promoting and supporting the development of cooperative entrepreneurship through the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship as a legal successor of the Croatian Association. The Centre is a public institution that, without mandatory membership, coordinates and represents the interests of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other natural and legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives and participate in the monitoring, promotion and development of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship is a body with public authority, with the keeping records of cooperatives and cooperative alliances as public authority, and certificates, beliefs and other documents that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship will issue under public authority will have the property of public documents. When we talk about cooperatives, we all know that from some previous time, our farmers have in their minds some cooperatives that may not have been very good, but in the late 1990s, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, above all, started to join together and to realize that without a joint appearance on the market, it was almost impossible to survive and so they started to form cooperatives. However, primarily the presentation of cooperatives and the way our farmers did so primarily with the idea of reducing the inputs, reducing the input costs in their production, ultimately resulted in the collapse of many cooperatives because the cooperatives themselves did not leave enough trade capital and thus did not survive. Instead, it means an increase in profits that cooperatives, through dividends, could share at the end of the fiscal year, thereby increasing their profits. Cooperatives are primarily a way and an opportunity to maintain small agricultural economies, small economic operators, finalise products, ensure payment, be competitive on the market. We know for ourselves that in most of our municipalities, our villages such as Daruvarski Brestovac, Končanica, the Great Zdenci, that ransom places have been abolished, that our farmers and small producers have no way of selling their cattle at the monthly level, etc. Cooperatives are precisely the possibility of returning these buying places, to ensure the purchase, to ensure the direct market and the collection of their agricultural products so that they can be competitive and stand against import lobbys or other commercial lobbys, which unfortunately slowly but certainly choke our village. The adoption of the law will remove the deficiencies identified in the application of the legislation so far and create an incentive framework to strengthen the competitiveness of cooperatives as well as to strengthen the positive impact of cooperatives on rural development, the development of local communities, and the economy and society as a whole. And that is why the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80070	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80071	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bilek, I know that you understand yourself well in this part of the job because that's what you do, and I know that you do business where the community works perfectly both as a family and as a cooperative. And you said that in the minds of citizens and Croatian citizens, especially peasants are cooperatives with one negative to say so thought of connotation. And you know why? Because the state got involved in it when people got together and the state did damage, and right now the same thing is happening. Instead of letting the citizens organize, we gave them relief, tax reliefs when they are organised because they are Croatian citizens, and this has been shown in Eastern Slavonia in floods can be much better organised than the country's leadership is known. We're now putting a tutor above them and we're going to bring that component of a negative thought back to the heads of those who should team up. But you were talking about especially in agriculture, maybe you know the answer to a question the deputy minister won't answer or doesn't know. How many newly employed bureaucrats are there going to be in that agency, in the facility? Since the Agricultural Payments Agency has seen an increase in the number of employees from 477 to 670. How many new bureaucrats will be hired here? If you know the answer here I ask you as a member of the ruling coalition to give it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80072	Replica response, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80073	Dear colleague Hrg, I'm glad you said in that opening part because we are seriously engaged in a particular section of agriculture just by organising farmers through an alliance, and we can say it in some ways is a cooperative that is registered as an alliance. And there's exactly the goal of our farmers in those sectoral problems of milking, tow cattle, pig farming, to unite warfare so that we can be much stronger on the market together and to be able to ensure a better quality, means market for our products, a better charge. It's definitely the way. As for the connotations of some past times, I was talking about those times before the 1990s when it was, when seriously in human beings, it's a factor that's normal to connect some old cooperatives because it's an equal name. But they're bound by nothing but a name that is. You talked about the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship being imposed. That's not true! The Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship is essentially an interesting organization that is here for our cooperatives in this case for talking to farmers because it is an optional membership. So, those who want to get into the story with the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship will enter because they will see that they benefit. Those who will think that they are not benefiting, if the centre is shown not to be specific on the market and does not show the results he simply won't, which is exactly the difference with the former Croatian Union of Cooperatives where there was a mandatory membership, the mandatory burdens that all cooperatives had to pay, where they got a head from a state that they couldn't really get away from it, etc. Now we have the possibility that our cooperatives as real independent entities finally join together in the way they want to, and in this case, at the center, they may or may not be members. As for the number of employees, here's the definition of the ministry to keep it this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80074	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80075	Thank you, Mr. President. So, colleague Bilek, you were talking about potentials, the possibilities mostly in agriculture. I agree that, and I have talked about this countless times in this House, about the potential, about the possibility of eating 25 million. You see what, what's the situation, what's happened in that farm. Surely, there are great opportunities to come to this session today, and I listened to it in a listening radio show where exporters are considered, exporting support, and it is eventually read from the fact that agriculture was this green branch that was to be supported. And you have given specific examples of where opportunities are in agriculture and in engagements with the aim of preserving those family farms that remain. He has to bend it, too, which are left, because unfortunately, they've fallen apart, and I don't even know anymore. Every day, ten of them go down. And in that part, people themselves are thinking about going to that cooperative and doing these things. So, from the purchase of repromation to these use of funds that were talked about here about immense possibilities of none of it. And that's the basic goal. And now this is whether this center, that it will now coordinate it, is just as bad experience as those cooperatives, resuscitation by new centralization as then those cooperatives that people really in history have unpleasant and bad experiences. I believe that all the strength needs to be improved in the ability of this, using that goal of course to preserve the rural area, and not unfortunately to go in these villages, so that our heart cries about what the situation is and how it fails. There's not even a "r" of even development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80076	Replica response, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80077	.../The speaker isn't on, you can't hear. The problem is that a large number of family farms have disappeared unfortunately and the policy implementation of the last 10 years that has been going on, there are consequences that have come in recent years, and the crisis and everything else that has accumulated. But the next thing you know, this way like it was boredom, which maybe it wasn't, you say it wasn't centralist but it was mandatory membership, so he didn't want to see whether this Association, or the Alliance of Cooperatives, did something for me as a cooperative or not I had to pay him. In this way, in voluntary association, and we all know what it is, just like this, if the centre wants membership, if they want to live on something, they will have to work positively for their cooperatives, prepare the ground for them, write and help write projects and refer them to funds where they can withdraw funds from the EU otherwise they will not survive. So now this part is an optional membership which solely for the sake of interest must be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80078	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80079	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, Bilek, you were talking about how this law would improve cooperative business, that it would be more transparent and better than ever before. The two amendments and additions that have taken place, as regards strictly cooperatives that have affected the abolition of cooperatives, is the law on amendments to the Employment Intermediation and Rights Act during the unemployment period in which you have brought that an unemployed cooperative cannot receive compensation while he is unemployed. And second, the Pension Insurance Act, you force cooperative managers to have pension insurance, which is essentially a ban on pensioners being managers of these cooperatives. This made it clear that the number of cooperatives has been halved since 2010, when there were 3000, now there are 1300. It is clearly said that any amendments and additions to the law are going towards this, the devastion or cosmetic changes that are strictly sought by the ministry. Today, the Croatian Union of Cooperatives could be controlled by the ministry, given that the ministry has been issuing 900 thousand kunas to finance employees in the alliance, and is not monitoring that illegal reports have been delivered to it for three years. That's the problem. There should have been order, and it should have been put in place to build an electoral assembly, as the law also requires, and so on. The defenders are shutting down the cooperative and leaving them because of these changes and the addition of the law. And that's why we have this devastating number.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80080	Replica response, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80081	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, although we can agree in some parts because it is a great burden because people can't be like managers first, and secondly, they can't receive compensation, but let's remember in 2007, when you changed exactly those laws when our farmers who were members of the OPG, who were also in the VAT system, had to pay compensation, lagging fees by making changes to the law, had to suddenly draw 20, 30 thousand kuna and pay into the state budget pension and health insurance and couldn't get no compensation from the office but couldn't stay at the office anymore. It also reduced in some ways seemingly unemployed. So this part, agreeing within this framework, that some rights should be, in particular, as far as the cooperative who is a farmer is concerned, could possibly be the manager of that cooperative. Because the conflict of interest he's in is but he's exactly the one who bites for his cooperative and who needs to go. But I'm saying, in 2007, it's these laws that you've been talking about here in 2007 that's been done in such a way, let's say the damage to the farmers because they had to, and they've been calculated with the delay of all the giving, all the interest, all of a sudden out of their pockets where they've been collecting even though the blue diesel is something cheaper, they've barely collected for fuel so they can cut down their meadows, so they can scrape, so they can prepare food for their customers, for their cows, and for the rest of what they've been doing, but they've come already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80082	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80083	You were talking about a promotion, that this law improves the existing state. How and what can be justified by the fact that the community of private interests and private persons is protected by political interference and not by them protecting their own interests? How is it possible that the government will take better care of the private interests of individuals than themselves? They were now protecting their interests through the alliance, and now the government is protecting their interests through a new centre. Can you imagine that the HUP does not elect its president and its board of directors but that the minister determines who will be president of the HUP and appoints the Administrative Council of the Association of Employers? That's unimaginable! As is unimaginable, this is a kind of expropriation because the centre is legally defined as a legal follower of the alliance of private natural persons or legal persons. Which is not political commitment but common sense requires a ban on thinking that leads to such legal solutions. Well, this isn't market-based, this kind of model can be sold eventually, but only to North Korea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80084	Replica response, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80085	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for asking this question. Well, that's the third question in a row that's asked in the same way as the HDZ rep. I'll answer it the same way again in most parts. So you're saying it's a pure policy mix, but you're forgetting that it's exactly the director who's currently appointed by the board of directors, and based on the public tender in accordance with the provisions of the Statute of the Centre. So, about picking the principal. As far as this is concerned, what were you talking about when it wasn't membership, I'm asking you, for example, if the Chamber of Commerce didn't have mandatory membership as many businessmen would in this way, while this is how the chamber has been run over the past few years, paying membership fees or whether it's united? Only those who see their own interest. It is also in this part, when there will be no mandatory membership here, so the centre will have to create a good interest of cooperatives, or fight literally for cooperatives to the last drop of blood as it is said, to get membership, to get cooperatives, to get alliances to pay them membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80086	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. The Club of Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and respected representatives of the Croatian Civil Party are next. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80087	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This bill could be discussed extremely long and beyond the planned time, and could be discussed in very short terms with a single sentence. I will choose a middle path although I would prefer to conclude that this change and supplement is primarily incomprehensible and will not contribute to the development of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. But more importantly, it will not contribute in any way to the existing cooperatives, especially when I think of Croatian defenders' cooperatives, remain, survive, function well, make people earn, work and see the meaning of life. Since it was working on the second, on the second emergency procedure in the amendments to this law, of course the question is being asked, and in both arguments, and several months ago when we had urgent changes and additions to this law, as it is now said that these amendments and amendments to the law are being proposed to improve the cooperative system, to strengthen, to make better business. So then, of course, the fundamental question is why were these complete amendments and the additions of the law not then foreseen last time, it was only a few months ago? As these amendments and amendments to the law have already been proposed, it was necessary to go in the regular procedure, to see in the regular debate and in the extensive public debate of all interested parties what could be improved or changed. This is how it seems when changes to this law take place on a merry-go-round, it goes at a higher speed, it stops and then is restarted, in the meantime, as shown by the data of a number of waste cooperatives, as well as the number of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. Because if I remember correctly there in 2011. The Croatian Defence Association was about 500 and more than 500, and today 370, 397. Therefore, it is obvious that the number of Croatian defenders' cooperatives is decreasing, including, of course, other cooperatives. The amendments and additions to the laws that are before us will not contribute to the development of cooperative society. My opinion and ours is that it's going to hurt. And of course, I will refer to myself as many others so far, first of all, in the way of managing, i.e. the establishment of this center and of course managing through the administrative council. It is clearly said that the centre is run by the administrative council, said to be many members but it is clearly said that the president and deputy elects the government from the resolution ministry, so Mr. Maras's ministry. So it is possible, because there are no obstacles, when you read these amendments and the amendments to the law, that in the future, indeed, at the head of that administrative council, the minister himself, and the deputy to be his deputy. So it's possible because it's being chosen from the resolution ministry, and it's confirmed by the government. Of course, there are representatives of other interested ministries, but there is no interesting economy ministry. So, a representative of the Ministry of Economy in the administrative council has nothing at least illogical. In any case, it is clear that, since the Government will decide on members of the Administrative Council, it will be the government that will decide on everything in principle and it is not in line with the market economy for which we have defined ourselves. Because what cooperatives are, what they do, they produce, what cooperatives do, produce, which is the purpose and goal of hiring cooperatives as many people as possible, to work, where to work, to work on the market. We are now on the market of 500 million people, to try to break into the European Union market. All this through this new model of governance will of course not be possible. The question that I have just asked in the replica is also related to the funds that are provided for, in this and our opinion, the funds are fully unrealized, i.e. they are not foreseen, so it is not anticipated that the funds will be allocated from the state budget. Impossible, impossible if, if there is no more voluntary, if there is no more mandatory membership fees, if it is voluntary, if it is stated here, which is good, thus abolishing a parafiscal imposition, the question is, where will the wages be given, where will the pay allocations be? And how many, and that's the question I'm asking, Deputy, how many years will it take to pay employees? How many of these employees will they be? Is it going to be about four, five, a hundred people, and will it then be the subject of the debate directly again in the Assembly in a way that employs people there, since there will be representatives of the ministries sitting on the board, and there is no obstacle through the amendments to this law to be ministers themselves, there is no obstacle. So they're going to decide on people who are going to be employed. Therefore, which, what purpose will it be, and which is the real aim of this new structure in the interpretation of the law is not explained. I will return to the Croatian defense attorneys' cooperatives and seek, although here, Mr. Deputy is reluctant to communicate with the MPs and is reluctant to answer our questions, I demand assurance that in no way will this law or new structure be damaged in any way by what is the purpose of the establishment of defence cooperatives. This project was launched in 2004, it was extremely difficult, there was a lot of resistance, but the state found a good model with an incentive of 150 thousand kunas, it drives people from the site and today we can say that there are cooperatives that work great, I will mention here one in Sibenik that deals with olive growing. It is particularly important that the employees of Croatian defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, who in this sense, in the work of cooperatives, have found the meaning of life, which cooperatives experience, and it has really helped many to come out of the vicious circle of post-traumatic stress disorder, people work, olive growing in the meantime, the cooperative produces extremely high-quality oil that receives different prizes and wins first places. So, from this cooperative to a cooperative headed by Mr Vukusic and the same, so in the southern part of Croatia, extremely quality and extremely professionally led and gathered Croatian defenders because the purpose is not only in employment but also in socialising and including what we can call life everyday. Often, co-operatives, Croatian defenders also organize exhibitions, every year in Knin for Victory Day and Homeland Thanksgiving, all ministers from each government are happy to visit both the president of the state and the Prime Minister, taste products, praise the defence of cooperatives, and then, in the Croatian Assembly, through the amendments to this law, we must give assurance to these people that they will survive, that they will be able to work and that they will be able to establish new cooperatives if necessary. I also remind you that several years ago they signed together, Croatian defenders signed an important agreement at the time with Podravka, which enabled them to rent, those who produce fruit and vegetables. So, work space, they certainly showed, there is, and that is the model by which other cooperatives in Croatia work. So, abolishing mandatory membership, I repeat, is one of... steps, but drowned in these hundreds of questions that we ask, I don't think it will contribute particularly to the influence that the Government will have on cooperatives and cooperatives through the amendments to this law, we could rename it not to the Cooperative Act, but to the Law on the influence of the Government on cooperatives. I repeat, it is all the opposite of the market economy for which we have defined ourselves. So, here's this amendment and the addition of the law we won't be able to accept, and I'm sure over a few months on the table we'll have re-changes and additions to the Cooperative Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80088	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. We have four replicas. The first replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you said you didn't understand the purpose of this law, that you couldn't find it. That's not true at all. I don't agree with that at all. He's very clear. Namely, after the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship successfully attacked the Chamber of Commerce after successfully attacking the crafts chamber, after increasing the number of craftsmen, increasing the number of entrepreneurs, new employment in these sectors, it was obvious that the Minister of crafts and entrepreneurship decided to solve the matter in cooperatives, especially agriculture. What is important and important and what is good in this debate on this law is also finally being debated about agriculture in this House. Yes, we don't discuss it with a resolute ministry, but in this government obviously no longer knows who's responsible for what, apparently there's one struggle for power within the party itself and, of course, the coalition itself and now the fingers and tentacles spread to everyone else. What matters is, this law creates addiction, the addiction of those who will later be... because they will have to do what you yourself said as someone tells them who will be appointed by the government. It was very interesting for me to listen here to debates and answers both on your replica and on some when my colleague Bilek says this is a matter of releasing practically the mandatory membership. So then we change the law only in that part, we abolish mandatory membership, we give incentives to people who team up, we give them stimulation, we release them from the part where they pay taxes, and they'll team up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80090	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80091	Thank you very much. My colleague Hrg, I'm sure you understand me well. I was talking about the objective in the context of the reasoning, why the law is passed because it is said here to be brought to strengthen cooperativeism and strengthen this type of entrepreneurship, and certainly that these changes will not be achieved. However, it is good that we opened this debate and I agree, it was then, and it was the only really good move, it was only to concentrate that amendment and the addition of the law on this membership, or mandatory membership, but again the question and I asked it at the beginning of my debate, if only a few months ago we had changed the law why and there if and if it were only the only change for mandatory membership or membership, why couldn't we bring it in and have a complete amendment and addition of the law? So fast changes to the law, one important law, and we could add tens, only contributes to what is crucial in my opinion for the anti-enterprise climate, which is legal uncertainty. Today, investors, and then today those who want to form a cooperative in the context of this law don't know what tomorrow is waiting for them and that's one of the biggest Croatian problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80092	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80093	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Kosor, you said in your debate that this law would not contribute to the development of co-operation in the Republic of Croatia, so in the next sentence you went one step further and you said it would harm. Of course, here are already mentioned in the discussion and in the replicas of two main features that will financially help the association of cooperatives, this is primarily a dispensation in terms of voluntary membership itself and a second discharge related to the reduction of the reinvested profit rate from 30% to 20% of which is expected 5.7 million kuna to remain with the associations. But what got me the most in your debate was what you said, and you were the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, you said that your biggest regret is that the government will directly intervene through the ministries in the work through the cooperative centre. We have spoken here and it has been pointed out many times that the purpose of cooperatives is not only to acquire profits but to all those activities that cooperatives are engaged in. And in my opinion, if we're talking on the positive side, we're talking about the principles on which every government and this government of the Republic of Croatia is resting, I don't see why it's dangerous. Why should the minister not interfere in the work of the cooperative ministry responsible for the job, the minister who encourages it and whose resources are eventually going from the state budget. And we all aim to increase the amount of cooperatives and their profits. In that sense, I don't see it as a danger unless it starts already from a completely negative point of view, but then in that way we question all institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And I think the center, if we've seen correctly, and it says in the law, that the center has first of all a role to play for the co-workers, and not in any way that he's holding them back and that he's preventing them from doing their job. That's what I wanted briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80094	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80095	I still don't think a law like this can contribute. It can do any harm. And harm what does it mean? to reduce the fact that the number of cooperatives is reduced, and as you can see, we are witnessing a reduction in the number of cooperatives. Namely, these are two principles that are opposed. Co-operation involves volunteering, so these are some people who voluntarily join together and want to work together, and that at the head of all important decisions, they can be decided exclusively by people who were brought out of the ministries, and I repeat, the law does not prevent them from being ministers. It means that Mr. Maras is sitting at the head of that council, because there are no obstacles. So it doesn't say in the law that they can't be ministers, and then it's contrary to this volunteering which is based on cooperative activity. And that's why I think it's completely unnecessary. So there's no need for the state to infiltrate cooperatives in this way. The state needs to give incentives I've set an example of how it is with Croatian defenders' cooperatives, so we started off with those 150 thousand kunas. This seems to be small money but it gives excellent results and that then the state gives a return but that directly on how their association will be arranged they decide for themselves and that would then be in line with the market economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80096	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Kosor, I kind of think that this thesis of non-payment of membership as some kind of benefit passed by this law I think it's a kind of demagogy, when it's seen that membership in this Croatian cooperative alliance was 55 kuna, then I think we're talking about demagogy, not real things. I think that the right things are to finally adopt a strategy for the development of cooperative society, I think the right thing to do is to adopt a quality legal framework in which cooperatives will not slow down as legal persons have the Law on Commercial Society, so there is a legal framework there, and cooperatives can have a legal framework in which only basics, and everything else needs to be allowed to develop jobs. I would prefer that instead of demagogue about 55 kuna membership fee, we talk about tax relief, tax relief and such things, then the law would have amendments and amendments to the law by emergency procedure, first and second readings make sense. They don't have one like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80098	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80099	Yes, I do not think that membership is either a reduction or an elimination of any member's demagogy but a membership fee is such a conjecture of parafiscal violence, so is the European Commission, and that is how we recognized them in the past government. So that's good, no matter what these givings are. But I agree that in the context of the legal framework, it was first and foremost necessary to include those involved in the cooperative work and to bring this legal framework into line with what the Croatian cooperative today is a reality. And this seems a long way from reality and we've opened up a series of questions that we haven't received answers to, and one of the most important ones I repeat is funding, further funding. So if on the one hand you cancel something or you cut something and you start a new body that you're going to hire, then you have to find the funds and they have to be shown in the state budget for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80100	Honorable representative of the Nenad Dance, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80101	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues, Kosor, one of your findings has offered me this replica, which is that the cooperative is falling off and that defense cooperatives won't survive. There were 500 defense cooperatives, now you say there are 397 of them. The government decides on everything through representatives of ministries in the centre's board of directors. I hope other than decision-making takes responsibility for such a case where cooperatives are lost. You're also saying that the deputy minister doesn't like to communicate with us parliamentary deputies, so I'm going to repeat your question one more time and let's get that dilemma off the agenda how much a year it's going to be spent on employees' salaries downtown. Is that the 850,000 kuna if I've listened well from the state budget that's meant for the work of the center? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80102	Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80103	Yes, I agree with you we have to get these questions by the end of the debate that is also in line, what we ask, it is in accordance with a series of Croatian laws, a series of Croatian regulations. As for Croatian cooperatives, yes, their numbers are clearly decreasing. I am very, very concerned because it is one of several models of employment and self-employment of Croatian defenders who proved successful. He came upon great resistance at the beginning because many commented among others that it brought us back to some socialist good, that it was a relic of a past that was not, which we remember by evil. However, he came across, he was well received among Croatian defenders, he developed, however, and so that, through the ministry, particularly successful cooperatives were then received every year and some new incentives, they were smaller than these initial but new incentives primarily for the purchase of equipment, therefore for the expansion of jobs. And this is one of the questions in this debate that must also be answered in the sense that further collapse of Croatian defenders' cooperatives must not occur. And that we have full and real guarantees that nothing in this sense will happen which would detimise the defenders to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80104	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer, the Honorable Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and Trade Drazen Pros.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80105	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the distinguished parliamentary deputies. Here's to not turning out to be this variant that the esteemed parliamentary deputies and MPs have said we are not in favour of dialogue. We are very much in favour of dialogue, and we are very much in favour of this conversation because dialogue leads to trust and trust then according to the highest degree of community, which is partnership. And I'm sure we can and must be partners in the adoption of this law. So let me maybe briefly just explain this once again state control. There is no state control over the cooperatives based on this law but actually a sort of guidance, over, steering the center. And that is how it is directed into work and in favour of cooperatives as one supporting institution. And the communities will continue to operate independently and independently. So, the aim is to focus the centre on making it as efficient as possible, we talked about it in the presentation of the law and the greater quality of services that must be provided to cooperatives, according to cooperative alliances that remain. The administrative council in which the representatives of the ministries are located is one mechanism actually for directing, not in the context of control and supervision, but with the aim of helping the centre and what is very important and that is what I have pointed out in the initial presentation of the attractment of funds from the European Union funds. It is often said that as far as the small economy is concerned and where cooperatives are also involved, there was not enough to attract funds. Let's say that in the period from 2007 to early 2012, only about 28 million euros were withdrawn from the European Union funds in the small economy. So, in the period from 1.7. so far, it's 33.1 million euros that are immediately being transferred into two grand schemes that are, in total, worth, so somewhere around 280 million kuna and that are related to both production and tourism,... technology but also for networking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What follows us by the end of this year is also from the European Regional Development Fund to withdraw 1.7 billion kuna funds where again one part of the 1.1 billion kuna will be directed towards production and networking and there is again an important segment and cooperative entrepreneurship. The remaining 600 million kunas will also be tied to one segment to raise the level of competitiveness of small-scale operators in terms of standardisation, certification and export aid, including cooperative entrepreneurship. The question of the principle of volunteering was also raised. It was in the Croatian Union that cooperatives were required membership, regardless of the interests of cooperatives. By this law, cooperatives can continue to associate, voluntarily, according to their own interests in professional alliances. The question of new employment is also raised. I also stressed in the opening statement that there is no establishment of any new agencies, new organisations, new employment, no new employment. There is simply a transformation of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives in which there are today five employees and in this Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship and I repeat, there is no additional employment in the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80106	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, only first of all a small one of this kind of dyspression. You said that we, therefore, are the Government and the Croatian Parliament partners. No, you, or the Croatian Government, answer to the Croatian Parliament, so this is where you choose, and this is where you answer. As far as you're concerned, then you're still sorting out what's normal, those council remarks we're making and you're saying that they're going to direct, and they're not going to control, and they're all going to be in favor of cooperatives. But I don't think anyone better than the cooperatives themselves, so no representative of the ministry can know better what is the essence of cooperatives, the needs of cooperatives, the problems, than those who work in this area. And I repeat once again that this proposal does not foresee in any way in the part where it says that the ministries will propose, elect members of the council, that they cannot and cannot be ministers or their deputies themselves. There's no obstacle. Where there is no obstacle everything is absolutely possible and that is one of the problems because we have no guarantee that in three months there will be no new change when you talk about the number of employees, some new amendment of the law that will allow for new employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80108	Thank you very much. It is next to the club Independent List, the club of representatives of the Independent List in the Croatian Parliament and representatives of Grubisic. Ivan Grubisic, go ahead and then Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80109	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Independent Representatives Club will support the adoption of these laws, changes, changes, along with some remarks. First, we do not consider it an urgent law to be passed by emergency procedure and to combine first and second reading because it is heard in this assembly and the proposals that should be taken into account in the final amendment of the law. The second point I would point out is that the regulations and the laws, the conclusions we make, should be that those who propose comply with these laws in the constitution of the Republic of Croatia first so that something does not fall short of constitutional principles. Second, we need to keep an eye on the laws that have already been passed, and they are not withdrawn. They should also be taken care of. And third, before the law, we should all be equal. The same should simply not be, except here I would make one exception that Croatian defenders, the real defenders, especially the disabled of the Homeland War must be ahead of the other citizens because they were willing to sacrifice their own life for a free and independent and not only would I stop there but a democratic, legal and social state. I think that we should take care of that when we pass some laws and suggestions and not forget it, that we always have that in mind somewhere so that the laws are coherent with the Constitution, the rules so far and certain values of certain people. Otherwise, cooperatives, in my opinion, I'm a little familiar with that, but it has a long anniversary and it needs to be standardized, supported and released as otherwise any other regulations and laws that we make from the tutorship of the government, in any way that tutorship has been carried out. I think it's just always at the expense of democracy, the rule of law and equality before the law. And the second part of the discussion will be continued by colleague Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80110	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80111	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I think what's most important in this law is that it's gradually going to end this, and I hope that it will turn in the direction of abolishing and other parafiscal burdens. In this particular case and this mandatory membership. I think that this lead should be made even when it comes to chamber contributions because 99% of the small craftsmen who, by law, have to pay that chamber contribution have no use for the way our Chamber of Commerce is formed. It is primarily a service in my court of large capital, clearly also hunters of polar bears and hippo horses, in no way is the service of small entrepreneurship that accounts for 70% of the economy of the Republic of Croatia and thus employs 70% of people in the Croatian economy. There's something better about the craftsman's chamber. They are mostly at the service of small business entities, but regardless of all the parafiscal burdens that some in the country today say 270, others say even 500, and we are not able to list them should be redefined. In one word, the entire system of economies needs to be relieved. The economy needs to breathe. We heard just before that there are 250,000 cooperatives in Europe, that three and a half million members, or citizens, are involved in their work. So there's no saying that Europe doesn't recognize that form so that I express my business and the cooperatives in Europe are hiring somewhere we've heard 5 and a half million people. 1200 cooperatives work in Croatia. Today, there are some 2400 employees out there, and the number is that, from day to day, it is now 30% less employed than it was two years ago. A small farmer, a small craftsman, a small fisherman often cannot compete equally on the market. So more of them should be or teamed up to be competitive. For example, cooperatives can also run his business books, make a certain performance study, for example, at some funds. They report together several of them to public tenders, compete together for the selection of materials or for the supply of materials, etc. The difference between companies and cooperatives is seen in the fact that the majority of capital companies decide that the profit goes clearly to those who have the most capital, and the difference to the crafts is reflected in the fact that the cooperative is a legal person, the crafts know that it is not. For example, one of the cooperatives shall be registered or registered at the Trade Court, the other in the register of trades. A craftsman fits the rule with all the property. There have been some changes legally in that direction. The cooperative shall, up to the value of the role of cooperatives, pay VAT on the issued account as a commercial company, and the craft shall pay VAT as a rule on the invoice. I agree with even some here, including Mr. Djakic, who mentioned why the number of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia fell, so he says because of that pension insurance where these managers at one point were not allowed to receive compensation. However, regardless of everything that is certain that what is governed by this law has nothing to do with cooperatives that after World War II I dare say largely compromised and the idea I do not know of NoB. What happened after World War II was unnatural, something that wanted to be more papal than the Pope. I don't know Russia or the Soviet Union, but fortunately, it didn't last too long. But the damage done by those cooperatives or the way people tried to organize it was huge. The village suffered enormous damage at least so-called. The combination not that they have outlived socialism but today what is left of them are the basics of agriculture in Croatia starting from Istria and beyond Agrolaguna, Agroproduct, not to say all of this, what else has failed. '47. The peasants took his land, forced him into cooperative, and after the 1990s, the acquired state land was privatized by our best sons. Then it was exploited for one kuna, and today we see that it is also privatized for one kuna. But well, this law has nothing to do with it. Let me just quote on page one that the Croatian cooperative here is said to have a hundred and fifty-year tradition, but what is certainly the point that the law or this law provides for a reduction of the obligation to allocate and record amounts for ensuring sustainability and further development of the cooperative to 20%. This creates a framework for further encouraging investments in cooperatives. And that, with the removal of that parafiscal contribution, is certainly the most important part of this law. Cooperatives known to be societies are persons not capital. So one man, one voice. There is the principle of volunteering, what is the basic principle in the work of cooperatives. And it's getting more or less okay. Personally, I think that cooperatives in us are also an necessity, that they are necessary. If the whole world knows them, the Republic of Croatia must know them, and it is clear that the cooperatives themselves cannot be in a better position than those in the economy in particular. However, I also appear as many because of this article 7 and 8 because of this Croatian Centre for Community Entrepreneurship. Thus, this law establishes this new Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship as a public institution that coordinates and represents the interests of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other natural and legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives, participate in monitoring the promotion, development of cooperatives, cooperatives as a whole. It's impossible for that center to cost. It costs as much as it costs, and we'll see about that soon or soon. We must, in one word, reform the entire state administration and local self-government. In one word, the entire upgrade in which 70 to 80,000 people worked more than it did in 1990. And it just costs and we have to be aware of it. Only that difference is about 10 billion kuna a year. We are if I'm not wrong in '90. The year in Croatia had 105 municipalities, today with counties... 114 anyway, it doesn't matter, but let's just say, we have 577 today. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's in Istria in the '90s. I know that there were seven congregations of municipalities, Buzet, Pazin, Labin, Poreč, Buje, Rovinj, Pula. We had 7 executive council presidents, 7 council presidents, 50 executive board members, 30 utility companies, and today we have, say, 42 mayors, mayors, etc. There are about 120 or more deputies, 250 CEOs, a hundred and some utility companies. In one word, 3,000 more people are employed in the upgrade than in the '90s. A year. And that clearly costs, in Istria it costs about 500 million kuna a year with material costs. That's equivalent to two hotels, in the 15th year of 30 hotels. Since '90. I'm saying it's a good thing that parafiscal intrusions have been lifted, that's a good way to go, but it's a good way to trade in functions if it's not the way to go, it's the way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80112	And now we move on to replicas. First at the presentation of counterpart Ivan Grubisic, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80113	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am pleased that you have recognised the importance of this law for both Croatian cooperatives and for the economic activity of cooperatives in general. But I'd just like to supplement maybe your exposure with two things. The first is, you were talking about the urgency of the procedure, I agree that most of the law should definitely be brought in more reading, which ultimately results in better legal text. However, when we talk about dispensing entrepreneurs, I think that urgency is precisely important because of opportunities on the market that are not easy for any of their discharges should be urgent, if you ask me. And the other thing is when you talk about the tutelage of the state there can also partly agree with you, but our role as a legislator, and then indirectly as a state, is just to give a legal framework in which certain business entities, in this case cooperative, will act. The more their mandatory membership is abolished, the more they do not have to be members if they do not want to, and there is exactly their right to decide for themselves how they want to regulate their cooperative and how they want to join together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80114	Next replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80115	Dear colleague Ivana Grubisic, introduce what you have said and as far as this law applies, I think we should all show a great deal of attention to this together that all laws, and especially those who do not explicitly want to show it, must be careful to be socially and socially just. Is that how I think this example of the law and all those who are criticizing him is nationalization of what to tell them? To remind us of the year 1996 how our cooperatives were robbed. Croatian cooperative has its long history, it has had its ups and downs, but then, I don't think that the Croatian cooperative has recovered until the end, because that year, by law, only three members of the Agricultural Cooperatives are allowed to restore the work of the cooperative and do with the property of the cooperative that they want. Thus began the robbery of Croatian cooperatives and the property of cooperatives. That way, what were they doing again? Well, they didn't rebuild it, they sold the entire property, even the cooperative homes. That's how it ended then. That is why I think, and this final statement of yours in your statement that it is also necessary to take note, hear and act so that all such efforts are supported also in terms of normisation, not over-normation, but such legislative proposals, which no one has given any serious objection in any case should be supported in order for Croatian cooperatives to develop as a desirable curent form of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80116	Miss twilight, replica. They will respond to colleagues Ivan Grubisic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80117	I thank you for the replica and suggestion with which I agree mostly, always holding on to someone's opinion, but I thank Mrs. Ingrid for her contribution to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80118	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80119	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic, you have praised this law new on cooperatives, and I would like to say a few things with which they are relevant. So, unfortunately, the cooperative has lost that dignity that we should have had since we were 45. People associate with this cooperative, simply connecting that sort of mentality, the communist mentality where people were simply coerced into these cooperatives, violently taken away from them, and disproved them. Many years have passed, when we saw it, and in 2014 it was the year when the European Union also brought a declaration of strengthening cooperatives. We still have no idea that cooperatives can be fair, I don't think this law is going to solve it. But what bothers me is the following, you said and mentioned in your presentation of persons with disabilities and Croatian defenders who are persons with disabilities, you see this law and the Social Care Act in no way solved their problem. Because this is employment, let's say short-term people with disabilities, and that's what they warned you about. If they are employed in the cooperative of those who lose the right to a disability of 1250 kuna, it is very little. If we didn't lose it and we had the right to get a job, then we would simply help the people with the disability that we want and who are declaring, this government is always saying that it advocates that, to allow them the labour market, I would simply, somehow in this direction, see them going in that direction. But this is how I don't think it's still going, and it's still knowing about cooperatives, especially some, and in this way it's going to stay like 45.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80120	Thank you very much. Reply to replica Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80121	I thank you for this debate. I agree with your opinion. I didn't want to favour anyone because privileged under the law shouldn't be in principle, I've excluded the disabled of the Homeland War with my views, and everything else should be equal to the law. And I'm afraid that for the sake of mental circuits, we've continued with the practice that we've left in the 90's declareative year without fully developing conditional democracy, the rule of law, but we've continued with some mental circuits from the previous system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80122	We now have the replicas of the presentation of fellow Caine. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80123	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Cain, you may remember better than I have, it has been quite a while since then, a former minister said that when commenting on the galloping level of mutual non-payments that has led many businesses to, in practice, the inability of further business, entrepreneurs must be careful on the market with whom they operate. So they have to be careful who they deliver the goods to, if he's gonna pay them. Otherwise, the process of developing entrepreneurship, based on the market economy, which we adopted in the 90th and here, is one process in which we find a series of difficulties daily because we are simply not prepared for them. In this sense, the legal solutions that are being passed here also seek to help those who, unfortunately, are to survive. In this respect, and the development of competitiveness, better access to information, and ultimately with resources that can help in the work, so here in particular, cooperatives are extremely important. We, a colleague of Ingrid, said in her replica that we destroyed a system that we practically destroyed to the ground, but we said it wasn't good. So when we talk about cooperatives or if we talk about agricultural combinations, because sometimes in certain combinations, there have been dozens of technologists, we see today that many, many large areas of the country are being processed without any technologists. So these are all processes that we need to adopt, and in that sense, and you mentioned, and that's the essence of my replica, to reduce the number of cooperatives, in this context it should be observed because it's simply a dynamic process on the market and some people have probably run into it, they thought it was favourable in terms of establishment, in terms of incentives but later when they really face the market, with the placement of their products then it comes to problems. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80124	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80125	Personally, I believe that the best part of this law is in the part where parafiscal imposes are reduced, or binding membership. These parafiscal loads absolutely need to be halved. Today, some say, as I said about the pay phone, we have 270, others talk about as much as 500 of these parafiscal duties. It is also necessary to make clear on the contributions, i.e. the overall tax policy simple, to try to mitigate even though we are aware of the fact that the cost of the state is extremely high. The fact is also, and I will repeat, I keep saying, that today in this country about 70 thousand people work more in upgrade than in 1990 and that it simply costs, that this upgrade costs about 10 billion kunas without material costs, costs the whole one system that is kind of clear, so we should have not only political courage but also consensus, we should try to reassess because we will soon face the fact that more in this way as the state is directed we will not be able to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80126	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80127	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain, you have done well in talking about cooperation in Europe, and you have also stated that 5.5 million members have cooperatives in Europe and that they are doing relatively well and that the European Parliament and the European Commission have well regulated the issue of cooperativeism and that it has been very developed in the EU. So, there are no... from the past like we did, even though we have countries that also came from real socialism, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania and Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia. So, we are talking about the fact that Europe has very much seen the role of cooperativeism in general economic development. They know those who have been in the European Parliament and as observers that this has been discussed and supported by the European Parliament. I don't get it, and I don't think it's clear to you, which is why we're making up hot water here and we're discussing the Co-operation Act the second time when there are European laws that might just be translated from English and copied? And since you've already talked about those cooperatives from the former state and their role, then we have to say that they were cooperatives that were completely different from what this cooperative means today. In fact, it was a merger and a means to work and real estate, so first of all, the country and all other property related to the work of cooperatives, but also the workforce, and now with these cooperatives, it has nothing to do with it, so it doesn't even have to be mentioned anymore. Of course I should be expanding... saying that those cooperatives that were until the '90s. Or even much earlier because they fell apart before the '90s, they had nothing to do with what we're talking about today. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80128	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80129	Yes, I said that there are about 250 thousand cooperatives in Europe, that we have 3.5 million members and that they are involved and that somewhere around 5.5 million people are employed. In Croatia, we must be aware that in 20 years we simply cannot reach those standards that rule, I would say for several centuries in the West. So we broke the whole thing, broke it somewhere for the first time or broke it in '45. years with something that also didn't prove to be natural, but God gave me the clue of coming forward, just before Mrs. Anticevic and the second time in 1996 when cooperatives could be founded with only 3 people when there was a sale of assets that had been created not for decades, but perhaps for centuries, and all that followed, they couldn't sell agricultural land because it was owned by the state, but therefore they found some other mechanisms where meters, hectares actually sold for the equivalent of several pieces of cigarettes. As it is in Slavonia, I don't know, but I know how it was simple in Istria, and that's something, not to be condemned, but to those individuals who thus acquired something that neither human nor God's laws should belong to them, they should again, under quotes, nationalize. When the institution won't deal with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80130	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, in your presentation you advocated decentralisation of the system and you were not too clear why this center was founded as an institution. I will tell you that so far, the cooperative alliance has been made by members of their representatives, and so they have been organized and represented the interests of their members of the cooperatives. Now that is not possible, now the minister decides who he will be, manage this centre, clearly by his order he will tell who it will be. It's pure party centralism. It has nothing to do with cooperative business. There is no emphasis in this law to encourage cooperatives as a business, with no measures, no analysis of the situation, no report on the work of the Croatian Union of cooperatives, no European model of cooperatives, no strategy for the development of cooperative entrepreneurship 2014-2020. It should be an integral part of this law. This should be what association should be, is a question of the survival of small producers and only in such a way that they decide on their strategy, on how they operate, on incentive measures, then they can create new cooperatives while we see that we have adapted all the laws by biting the cooperative in the Republic of Croatia in the last two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80132	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80133	I agree the center costs money. You mention some party centralism, I also said at the pay phone that it would not be good if we agreed in advance which party of the ruling coalition would take over that future centre, it would not be good, and God forbid we go about changing this law. What's positive, once again I'm going to say, is that parafiscal intrusions are lifted and I think that must be the way in this country. Trade functions if she's present, I said... there can't be a path. And how can you simply help cooperatives, or cooperatives? Maybe they should be treated not as companies, but as craftsmen. Clearly, we know that the crafts are no longer that... so, individuals correspond to their entire assets, cooperatives with the share they have entered, but while the craftsman usually pays by charge, companies and cooperatives pay by the issued VAT invoice and that is something that could help cooperatives in the Republic because we have seen that we have lost 30% of employees in the same and that the number of cooperatives has also been rapidly reduced over the last few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80134	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80135	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Cain, you said a series of things in two minutes. You said this had nothing to do with that '46 cooperative, you said that the removal of parafiscal charges meant a cheap state, you said a lot more. None of that is true. This has to do with the '46s when three sheep and one cow were supposed to give more milk if you were in one place in terms of subsidisation. It doesn't matter not to perform the same process but the state says you can't pay 54 kuna compensation, it's a lie that's selling fog, but it's introduced a new centre that's gonna be 10 times more expensive than that membership fee and put a yoke on it... so you won't be giving 54 kunas but we're going to ignore you now. My colleague Maras is leading a double policy. In HGK, he claimed he needed to be voluntary, and here he imposes a state yoke on someone who should be independent. Croatia needs... this Government can no longer rule Croatia because it needs to be abolished immediately, this morning, all imposes, all mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and in cooperatives and in all such institutions. It's due to be lifted this morning. And Maras there introduces one policy here introduces another policy to hire ten of his sympathies and some party-like people and nothing more. This law does not solve anything, nor will it bring good, it is short said. And it'll bring bad. The point of cooperative is that people organize to produce as much as possible and allow them to place their products better or faster, and that state should in some way help, nothing else. Otherwise we can start, I still have four seconds of new agricultural combinations, why not. Why would they sell land? The state has the right to state property and establish a new one there, Kutjevo or what I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80136	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80137	So when I see what was done in the Chamber of Commerce, when I see how much money from the Chamber of Commerce and what got out of the North Pole, where all the communities of these polar bears were liquidated or killed down there, then we really don't need a chamber like that, let alone burdening that little businessman to pay for that membership. Yes, of course. There, too, should be a significant difference in the payment of membership fees. I think those who hire two, three, five people could be released because the Chamber of Commerce is usually a service of large ones, not small ones, and that should be changed. I want to believe that this center that's going to cost and cost because there's nothing that doesn't cost to do business that way. And when we talk about cooperatives in '45 until I don't know which '50s, and some of them it's certain that this law has nothing to do with those cooperatives that have largely compromised even the idea of NOB, which was disastrous or bad, but later, many of these cooperatives turned into some combinations that today are in some privatized form the foundations of Croatian agriculture. I want to believe that this law is not going in that direction and that relapse of the past or history is not going to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80138	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80139	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, if we wanted to abolish this law and how do you say parafiscal accusations then we would only change the existing law and say membership is not mandatory. But we are the i.e. and this law that will raise a hand for him will again strengthen parafiscal burdens except that they will not be parafiscal only to cooperatives and cooperatives but will be to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who pays taxes because they will all pay that centre to some new agency that will be formed, founded and not known how many people will work in it and how much it will cost and that is what is unserious in this law. So you can't start some new company in a country that you don't know how many people are going to work for, how much it's going to cost, how much the taxpayers are going to pay. Well, I guess people deserve to know what it's gonna be. You also said that you doubted the part about being free and free of charge, there will be no free and no cost because when we talk about these parafiscal charges so let's take a look at what it says, the centre that will be the institution will charge services from the user. What are we talking about? Isn't that parafiscal violence? That we need mergers, we should, in two years, have spent when we were supposed to associate primarily agricultural producers but stimulate them not by force, not by establishing some new agencies that, in the number of colleagues, will soon outnumber the local self-government unit in the Republic of Croatia, which we are competing with state agencies and centres to have more of them than there are local self-governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80140	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80141	The entire system of state upgrades should be redefined from local units themselves to the agencies themselves. It doesn't take so many units of local self-government, it doesn't need so many ministries, it doesn't need so many agencies, not so many public companies or utility companies. The system simply needs to be rationalized. Okay, I agree with you, too, that every law and therefore this law should be read between the lines, and the deputy minister should say once and for all how much this centre will cost, how many people will work there, and now if we don't get an answer now, we'll probably get a budget rebalance that will be in front of us next or next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80142	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80143	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Reverend Cain, I fully agree with you when you say it's going to cost a lot. Well, of course it's gonna cost, and we all know it's gonna cost. In fact, it's already tiring to listen to various reports of laws everywhere that say they're not going to cost anything. Every new law always costs, the only thing that matters is whether spending is justified and whether it's well spent or not. But of course it'll cost. That, of course, you fenced yourself and said it remains to be seen if this center will work and how it will work, etc., which is understandable why you said so. But when we talk about parafiscal intrusion again, I think it's clear, the myth of parafiscal intrusion is something that now sounds very convenient to everyone in their ears. But when we talk about this particular case, it should be made clear that membership in the Croatian Association does not exist and did not exist for the past year or for this year. Therefore, nothing new will happen and nothing new will be released so cooperatives. And what I regret about the wonderful period until 1990, which you said, I wouldn't want to comment on right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80144	Damir Cain, reply to the replica. Oh, no? And colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80145	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, dear colleague Cain, I agree with you on all your allegations regarding the reform of local administration or self-government, but as you know, we will hardly come to this because of the fact that the minimum consensus is primarily parliamentary political parties on such a kind of reform necessary and necessary. And since everyone's hired someone somewhere, of course it's very hard to do that at least in due course. You said that it remains, quote "It remains to be seen whether and what results this Council will achieve, or the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship will achieve.". There's nothing left, I think the law we'll discuss and the law will be passed. So there's no time. We need to see what we need to see today and point to that. And finally, you said let's try, let's try this law, so that was a good thing, let's try the law, not the law of shoes, not the law of dress and not the law of pants. Trying to digest always gives bad results. And I'm sure you as a longtime advocate agree with that, we can't try anything, experiment, but we have to be sure when we make decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80146	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80147	Well, it would be ideal if we had incomparably fewer laws and the whole system would be less standardized. Yes, I think we should reform a complete upgrade where local self-government is just one of them. Clearly, there was no courage or courage, nor courage today, nor was there when you led the government, nor did the former prime minister or the previous one. For one reason it is neither possible to reach consensus and we are all aware that this automatically means losing a choice or I suppose that means losing a choice. But sometimes it's better to lose the election than the future in this country. For starters, what could we possibly do? Mandatory legally, take measures that everyone must go to elections, not that we have a situation that 25 or 30% of people decide on the future of everyone in this country. If such a solution is known by one Denmark, one Belgium, perhaps the Netherlands, I don't know, I certainly know about Australia and no one can say that they are not prosperous, that they are not democratic. Perhaps we could introduce such a moment and see what would happen afterwards. To leave, to drop responsibility to all citizens of this country and not to organised groups that reach the highest of 20 or 25% of the electoral corps of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80148	Now the word has been requested by Deputy Minister Drazen Pross. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80149	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Here's maybe one, just one more clarification, so funding. Once again, in the last 10 years, about 1.2 million kuna has been financed by the Croatian Union of Cooperatives. There's no extra funding already on the contrary. We have a decrease, so in the 2014 budget, so it's a reduction of about 30%... About 800,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As of next year, this reduction is again for 200 thousand kunas, and so it will follow all the way as far as I say, not the rest of the funds remain just to exercise public authority and that is the amount somewhere around 200 thousand kuna. So, once again, there's no additional employment. There is no formation of any new agency, no new organisation, we are talking about the transformation of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives into the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80150	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80151	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and Mr. Deputy Minister. The Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support this law because it does not say anything in favour of cooperatives or cooperatives. The Cooperative Act was passed in 2011 and amendments to the law in October 2013. The 2013 amendments and additions mainly relate to the introduction of the exact name of the competent ministry into the law and fundamental changes in the law that would contribute to improvement, the improvement of cooperatives are completely lagging behind. In fact, the only contribution of these amendments and the addition to the improvement of the law is to issue public powers to the Croatian Union of Cooperatives in regulating and sanctioning the violation of cooperative principles or values. Today's new amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act over a period of only half a year point to the lack of understanding and non-compliance between the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts in cooperative matters, especially when it comes to the importance of cooperative in economic and other development of local environments in the Republic of Croatia and the importance of cooperatives for individual groups of citizens such as defenders. Such a claim is also supported by the fact that these amendments delete all the essential changes and amendments to the laws that entered into force in October last year. Key newspapers that bring these amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act are the abolition of mandatory membership in the Croatian Union of cooperatives, the abolition of membership, as well as the abolition of the Croatian Cooperatives' Alliance, i.e. the establishment of the Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship as the legal successor of the Croatian Union of Cooperatives. The Croatian Centre for Joint Entrepreneurship has the status of a public institution under this law, and in the structure, mode of work, the part-round centre is subject to the provisions of the Law on Institutions. However, the proposer has ignored this provision in several places, so we have a situation where the proposed solutions that represent the paper in relation to the applicable law, which is subject to the provisions of the Law on Institutions, are not in conformity with the Law on Institutions, which can be concluded that the applicant has voluntarily created a public institution whose purpose and is not entirely clear. For example, in Article 14 of the amendment and supplementation, Article 54 is amended as follows: Laws on cooperatives and bodies of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship become director and administrative council. However, the Law on Institutions also provides for a professional head and expert council as a body of an institution but that part of the Law on Institutions has been ignored by the applicant. The consequence is that cooperatives and cooperative alliances will have absolutely no impact on the work of the centre. Although the centre is established for the purpose of coordinating and representing the interests of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other natural and legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives, participation in monitoring, promotion and development of cooperatives and cooperatives as a whole, that part should be complemented by the bodies provided for by the Law on Institutions in which cooperatives and cooperative alliances would be represented, as this is the only way to avoid the centre itself being a purpose. Furthermore, in Article 19 amending Article 55, the applicant again ignores the provisions of the Law on Institutions and fails to specify the founder as the source of the funds for the operation and operation of the Centre. The failure opens up a very dangerous possibility of abuse of the centre as an institution, as well as a state budget. Since the Law on Institutions confers enormous powers on the founder, it shall also use the acquisition of the institution to develop and carry out the activities of another institution set up in Article 57, and the institution shall be responsible for its obligations with its entire assets in Article 59, that is, by means of State budget. Of course, in the explanation of certain articles, the Proposer does not explain at all the amendments and additions but rather the text of amendments and additions literally copy and present as an explanation. This failure results in another flaw, which is the wrong assessment of the applicant or knowingly misleading that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. This is, of course, not true, and it is assumed that the applicant has not made a financial structure to what the state budget will cost the director and the board of directors, as well as officials who become public officials, so they receive salaries from the state budget. It was not in the Croatian Union of Cooperatives which organized a completely different type. The applicant shall also delete these amendments from the law of a provision defining infringements of cooperative principles and values and the monetary sanctioning of those who commit these offences. The applicant here offers an explanation that cooperatives of companies are persons who operate according to the principles and values of cooperatives which are the basis for the success of the cooperative model. The proposer then states that the principles are not regulations but the heritage of cooperatives. In view of the fact that cooperative principles and values are prescribed and taxed in Article 2(2), The Cooperative Act does not understand where the applicant's assessment comes from. Also, breach of principles and values would mean violation of this law, and the question is whether the minister understands co-operation as an area of economy at all or exploits cooperatives to create an area of his absolute domination. These changes are complemented by legal shortcomings and indeterminateness. The end result is very easy to predict. Cooperatives and cooperative alliances lose influence on the creation of measures of economic, social and tax policies related to cooperatives. Abuses and centres as public institutions and funds from the state budget are possible, and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts as the founder gets huge powers that enable him to have absolute influence and domination in the area of cooperativeism. Of course, the HDZ Club cannot accept such changes and additions to the Cooperative Act, we will vote against this. We hope that you will accept the amendments sent by individuals as healthy and basic. We hope that you will understand that the Law on Institutions must also be applied, since this becomes an institution, will be applied in this law and it must be all clear and transparent so that there is no delusion, although we are already coming to the point that centralism listed in the Minister's decision to appoint both the main man and the deputy will be absolutely like party centralism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80152	Now we'll hear the replicas. Tamara Shimac Bonačić. Tatiana, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Djakic, you mentioned today's defence cooperatives, and there were before you in the debates of speech even doubts about the abolition of defence cooperatives. However, defence cooperatives are a very specific form of entrepreneurship. It is, in fact, a social entrepreneurship that certainly affects psycho-social development, i.e. empowering members, as well as local communities where these members work. I must stress that these cooperatives do not have any great financial significance, but they have precisely this meaning that I have listed before. That is why I am thinking and sharing with many people that it is necessary to protect such a form of cooperativeism where it actually is, it is a matter of social entrepreneurship. This is how resociation is done, and so is reintegration. However, I would remind you here of the past, I think it was an actuator, and also through the media we can see that it is not true that defence cooperatives are being abolished, but rather the opposite, which is said by the defence minister to initiate the process of passing the amendment of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders where exactly such cooperatives, the cooperative of defenders, will be regulated that it is actually a particular form of cooperative that is more than economical but more social character. And that's what goes into it, and that recently ambassadors from 15 countries have actually visited defense cooperatives, because that's how it takes care that defense cooperatives can actually be and compete even in the surrounding countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80154	Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've noticed very well that speaking of defense cooperatives, I didn't go into details, but they are 250 less than they were before. In two years 250 defense cooperatives have been shut down. The reasons are well - known defenders speak clearly about the reasons. They can't be the ones who retired anymore. They must pay their pension from 1 January, the cooperative manager must pay pension and health contributions through cooperatives and pay through cooperatives. Here's what the defenders say. The defenders are disgusted by this and, of course, that their assets and property that are not too large, which is backed by 150000 kuna by the Ministry of Defence to function today do not want to put into the hands of any manager who would run their cooperative. It is a problem that is clearly defined by amendments to the law only you do not want to admit it. The 2013 Pension Insurance Act forces cooperative managers to have pension insurance, which is essentially a ban on pensioners being managers. Here's what they say: "Thanks to the defense agricultural community, I'm a normal man today. After the war, I was an elemental accident for Imotsky. Ask anyone. I used to walk around town, hang out in bars. If I had a yellow minute, I'd make a mess, I'd attack people, I'd be treated in Vrapč and Jankomir, and then I'd join the cooperative. Now I'm with bees, rabbits, chickens. The cooperative saved me not only me but other defenders, and now the new regulations are trying to destroy us." That's what the defenders say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80156	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague, a few things, I'll start at the end. So last time at the actuarial, as a colleague mentioned in her reply, the defence minister was clear about the leaders of defence cooperatives as well as other issues related to defence cooperatives, so it will be resolved by a special law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Defence. So, let's take that story down. It's another thing. So there's been a lot of talk and talk both through replicas and debates about volunteering as the main element of cooperativeism and the concept of cooperativeism as such. On the other hand, you confuse me because you represent the concept of which the Croatian Association was obliged. So you couldn't choose whether you wanted to be a member or not, you had to pay the membership fee. I think counterpart Hrg mentioned that he asked some associates whom of them the Croatian Union helped. One of my colleagues seems to have said maybe. So then we can talk about an institution that's our own purpose. In this case when you have, the Croatian Center for Cooperative Entrepreneurship membership is not mandatory. The centre must fight for any cooperative that will be its member, pay membership fees. So, how's she gonna attract her? So only by work, only by aiding, only by advocacy for cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80158	Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80159	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, buddy, you said everything. Namely, the Center for Joint Entrepreneurship, as I have said, will be its own purpose. The membership fee is absolutely irrelevant, because in 2013 and 2014 it was not paid or collected at all. In the Croatian Union, there is absolute disorder, powerlessness and the edge of crime. Criminal charges have been filed, the ministry has not controlled the funds it provided to encourage the cooperative alliance. The assembly has not been held since 2011. That's the problem. And now to protect it, prevent it or put it under the carpet, let's start something new, let's get it into some new function and so their negligent, their negligent cover-up. That's what Mr. Hajdukovic is about. As for defence cooperatives as well as defence law, we are in a position to see that the devastation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and the devastation of the Mirovinski Law with this law, with that law, is a unique list of skills, as well as of the witches, are also going to harm Croatian defenders as well as the Law on Pension Insurance as well as the Law on Encouragement of Employment and Monitoring and Supporting Employment. These two laws have made it impossible for Croatian defenders to be cooperative managers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80160	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80161	Thank you very much. Col. Djakić, you said what should be complemented by the articles, so you seem to have failed to add to the article 16 that the name and name of the director of the centre should be added there. Because if the deputy minister says that there will be a total cost of 200 thousand kuna, there will be no new costs, and that the director is elected in a public tender, then probably already there is a name from the existing system because there will be no new costs. So no one on the side can answer. You also asked if the Minister understands the concept of cooperative? If he understands him as he understands his resor of crafts and entrepreneurship, then we are all together, especially those who will be cooperatives. And I have to tell my colleague Hajdukovic that I was with entrepreneurs who I asked if anyone had used these supporting institutions, the type of entrepreneurship center or the development agency, and that then only 1 out of 25 entrepreneurs raised their hands and said such a half-breeding thing in half. This is the same thing, so this is about the problem that is once again established as you have told your colleague Djakic one institution that will be the purpose of itself, which will be the purpose of not knowing how to hire some people again, to increase the bureaucratic apparatus again, and to create another obstacle in the way of development of something we need.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80162	Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80163	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've noticed very well, namely, the wish to give the Minister absolute authority in managing the Community Entrepreneurship Centro is clearly shown in this law. It was a wish in all others, and in crafts law and the Chamber of Commerce, now it's the Society's turn. It is clearly said that these are cosmetic changes and procedures without fundamental thinking, and for the regular illegal functioning of the Croatian Union of cooperatives is absolutely responsible minister who has accepted reports in two years which have not checked the bodies, which is a supervisory board that does not work. It's all written by the minister, it's all addressed to state institutions and services, and even to President Josipovic to know that state money is non-transparently functioning in the institution. Of course, only the names of the director and his deputy appointed by the minister are missing, given that he will draw up both the board of directors and everything that belongs to this law by the institutions. It is clear that there will be those who will be partylike.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80164	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80165	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakić, I understand your sensitivity in this topic, especially with regard to Croatian defenders and here are the Croatian defenders' cooperatives. But you see, you've been saying that back in the last two years, this government has been pushing most of the authorities to raise their hands, you've been good at changing records, you've been talking about setting up agencies, centres. I was just talking about an agent in some of my discussions. We can immediately talk about centrification, and this is all about centralization and the service of increasing red tape. Indeed, you speak well of your colleague Djakic. Does this government think that it can in some way offend two years and more intelligence both our defenders and peasants and people with disabilities, especially young people? Because he keeps putting before us and giving us some laws that have titles, and the content is simply embarrassing. Yeah, you said good about defense cooperatives, and I personally worked on some long-time defense programs and it was a big and therapy for our defenders, you read it. But I also talked about people with disabilities in one of my replicas. Unfortunately, once again, I will repeat these disabled persons if they are employed in the community they lose the right to a personal disability that is very small, 1250 kuna. And there is no question that this government and the ministry of Ms. Milanka Opacic are also asking themselves how in reality to solve the social problem. Here, I hope we won't be watching you raise your hand for long for empty titles of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80166	Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80167	Comrade twilight yes, this can simply be called a party pamphlet, not a law. This is clear that defenders speak of it as a working therapeutic effect without any wealth. That the stimulating measures applied by the Ministry of Defence at 150 thousand kuna for the established defence cooperative and 50 thousand kuna if it operates positively over a further period are no wealth but are the basic means for the functioning of such cooperatives. If this law had also put into place that any new cooperative would be so stimulated, whether agricultural or fishing, any species could certainly clap, commend the minister. This way we can establish 250 shut down defense cooperatives. It's said to be 70%. Co-operatives claim that this will lead to 70% of defence cooperatives being shut down. So far, 25,000 turns have been shut down, and only 5 thousand new ones have been opened. There are no measures that would be stimulating, there are no measures to encourage cooperatives, to establish cooperatives, to bring together small producers through cooperatives to be market-efficient and to be competitors, there are no measures to talk about the cheap cooperative process, there is no way the ministry will stimulate and pay only the papers and acts that are for the establishment of cooperatives. These would be concrete measures to improve the current situation and launch new, new processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80168	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80169	Comrade Djakic, you mentioned the word centralism. Here we are talking about the law, once again in the series that we are bringing in an emergency procedure, without a broad public debate, without further reflection except in this particular piece that you mentioned, politically. So by taking over from the coalition, one ministry divided into two, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, according to the political key. And now here we have another law by emergency procedure where it is, that ministry must have another public institution where the minister will appoint an administrative council and then a director. But when you look at article 50, which changes and reads what the centre's affairs are, so it says there to monitor the situation and work in the area of cooperatives, keep central records, cooperate with cooperatives and cooperative alliances, provide professional and other assistance to cooperatives and all that, etc. And now the question is, what is the basis and purpose of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts in general, if not exactly what it says here is that some of the jobs are also the center. So we're coming back to some kind of centralization and what Mrs. twilight mentioned and the awakening of that kind of administration. Recently, we also remembered that law on the legalisation of lawless objects, so the same agency was established where 150 people were employed to help legalise facilities in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia instead of allowing county, local self-government units to keep these 150 people on their ground. This is another, just one more step in further centralization and that party crush that just doesn't lead to anything, and the results of all of this will soon show up. I'm just afraid that when the Hunting Act changes that the Croatian Hunting Union is turned into some kind of public institution again, some minister will appoint a director of the hunting alliance. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80170	Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80171	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You said well, we are afraid that the hunting alliance will not fall under the Ministry of Agriculture, so the minister will appoint who will be president of the Croatian Hunting Union. We believe that what you listed in the article 50 jobs of the Croatian Union cooperatives will all be chargeable, these jobs cooperatives will have to pay and pay, all consulting, management, education on the use of funds, writing potential programs, and so they think that this public institution will be financed. Not only as the Deputy Minister said, over the years, these revenues that have been given to the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives will be reduced, but joint cooperatives will have to pay for these services that you have listed. And there's a rabbit in that bush. This will finance this new body that will surely have a terrible number of members.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80172	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80173	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Djakic, you said what else needs to be fixed by the amendments. I think this law absolutely doesn't fix it he's conceptually bad and there's no help, absolutely no help. It would be best if they didn't vote on him. Because he absolutely doesn't solve any of the important issues of cooperatives. And I will go back to this famous centre because it really causes within me what associations it represents to represent the Sanitary Council of the current Croatian Association, and to the fact that the administrative council has five members, that the president and deputy elects the Ministry of Trade, so it says you don't have to turn your head, president and vice president of the Board of Directors, make the ministries responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts while members of the Board of Directors of Agriculture, Regional Development and Defence. So that's 5 members, that's 5 new fees plus the principal, plus the deputy director. So where are your expenses? These costs are not mentioned at all. Plus, this looks really like a bankruptcy council. When you look at this administrative council as a legal follower of the office taking over property, it manages the property then it really creates an association of statehood, ethics and similar terms that we once had as a termology and as a style of behavior. Therefore, this law cannot be corrected, this bill is bad and it would be best not to adopt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80174	Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80175	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members of the Vesna, you've done well, even though I've prepared seven amendments as well as other colleagues. A lot of these things should be fixed, it is best to withdraw the law which is by emergency procedure and come to be taken care of as soon as possible, but also to cover up certain jobs that were done in the current Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives. Namely, this proposal is not even on the website of the Croatian Federation of Cooperatives published. Such speed,... without debate, without public debate,...is one institution such as this... is made with a crafts chamber, as with an economic chamber, all these are institutions that are created and that need to be shut down because there were some bad guys. Instead of control, instead of supervision, if you're giving money, thank God you have the ability to control, so the ministry is that it has to control... the funds. Whether this assembly is legally operating, whether or not the Supervisory Board has reviewed the documentation, so these are all things that you neglected, dear God, so we invite this institution to check first what happened in the Croatian Union of Cooperatives, how money was spent non-transparently as the cooperative... and write to me. Likewise, this law withdraws from the procedure because absolutely nothing will contribute to anyone except those party staff you've assigned these jobs to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80176	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80177	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic and I have noticed this claim about cooperative entrepreneurship and your clear interpretation of the role and structure and the functioning of that centre is indeed for the concern and it is confirmed that the centre could really become its own purpose, and then the fundamental question of where is the cooperative, where is it, if the main thought is the director and this very council that will work, where is the cooperative? So, mainly in that section of defense cooperatives, it's unacceptable to treat defence cooperatives in this way in view of their importance, in that therapeutic part, in improving the quality of life, ultimately and reducing the cost of treatment, reducing the number of suicides and all the expensive, I think it's so irresponsible to set it up. And the second question, is also about agriculture, the potentials of agriculture in agriculture that we're talking about, and indeed our farmers are asking for a reason for days where we are, where is our position? They, regardless of the difficult situation, have a desire for both cooperative organisation and in that part, need, therefore, to help them organise themselves simply, to use potentially possible means that are unfortunately not available and that they can perform well, improve production and preserve our rural areas and contribute evenly to the development of our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80178	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80179	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Milinkovic, yes, you've made a good point, and what do the defenders say? It's only now that people start to realize slowly what kind of porridge they've been making for them. There is a... centre for Croatian defence cooperatives at the Ministry of Labour, we should have been educated, which now, we are small rural cooperatives, we do not earn much, we pay taxes and we are happy to have 12 months of money to pay the manager who will run the administration, organize the job. So the defense cooperatives began to form to get the defenders off the street and off the booze, from the suicides, from all the problems they had with their mental health. I believe that this debate will also not contribute to any further harm to Croatian defenders, I believe the ministry will, but it is difficult to correct something that has already been passed in other laws. The Law on Croatian Defences cannot be corrected by the Law on Pensions, the Law on Croatian Defences cannot be revised or corrected by the Law on Employment Intermediation which also prevents the defender from participating in cooperatives, working and being, working therapeutically rehabilitated without any large profit. That's all the things that are neglected, that's all the things that talk about the continued trend of the co-operation being shut down is under way. This is a trend that speaks about the damage to the activities of the Ministry of crafts and entrepreneurship, about the damage to the entire government's activities as a whole, given the number of co-operatives shut down, given the understanding of the problem, given the non-incentives, given the standards that are absolutely non-European, but which are anti-European. They should have prescribed European laws on cooperatives and thus function with them, it would have been better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80180	Thank you. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80181	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Djakic, you have rightly said that there is still only a name missing from the director to complete the matter. Unfortunately, we have one bill of law in which there should be no party policy and in which there should be no party personneling, in fact this bill introduces party policy, party staffing and polluting this area, I dare say, pollutes this area that would have to be freed from such influences. When you look at the composition of the Governing Council, then you can say freely it's about the government's inter-resor body. You have five representatives of certain ministries. Who prevented the government from building an inter-resor body that would help the Croatian Union of Cooperatives so far if they had problems? Just like you said in the last two years they've had problems. So no one prevented the government from building an inter-resor body, representatives or several ministries that would help the Croatian Cooperative Union find solutions to certain problems. However, now this government body is being implemented into a new centre and party personnel are actually being introduced, control is being introduced, only control, political control over an alliance of cooperatives that should not exist at all in civil democratic states. Well, there's no such example anywhere in Europe, there's no such example anywhere in Europe. Therefore, it is exclusively that the ruling... wants to rule this sector as well. We have a similar example of the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities also made it nationalized, fortunately the Constitutional Court put it out of force. They also nationalized the property of the Society of Friends as they try to make the property of the Croatian Union cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80182	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80183	Thank you very much. Yeah, he's got to put his fingers everywhere. Everything needs to be matched, everything needs to be controlled and not given to anyone to develop because as some powermaker said in a long time ago, wealthy farmers are a threat to us, the towers, they can't be towers have to go to the cooperatives of the former. However, it seems as though today some people who want to work, who want to rehabilitate with their work, have something to earn or have some property that is not worth too much, and can also contribute to the production of food, honey, fruit, vegetables and all those branches that Croatian defenders and cooperatives of other species have opted for. We see this as an attack on cooperatives who want to be strictly managed by a crafts and entrepreneurship minister who doesn't even know what it is because if he knew, he would use measures and incentives, develop them, employ them through that vision, of course he wouldn't shut down the crafts, he wouldn't shut down the company, he wouldn't shut down the cooperative if the minister and his associates knew his job. They don't know him when they've never even worked in any branch, they've never earned in such a branch of entrepreneurship, crafts and cooperativery their bread, especially the minister, without a day of work, they bring laws that absolutely have nothing to do with today's reality, with today's condition, and that's why I said this is usually a party pamphlet that doesn't serve anyone or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80184	Ante Jerolikov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80185	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Djakic, you have made a series of remarks that make this law not good and some earlier decisions that have caused great damage to both the members of the cooperative and the cooperative, and we here in the assembly are full of mouths about quickness for defenders, about social sensitivity. So I'd like to ask if the defense attorneys are concerned about the inability to volunteer retired defenders as the manager of cooperatives. We know that we have 397, that 90% of them are led by retired defenders, that these are the people who founded them, who created them, who started the cooperative, who put part of themselves into these cooperatives, and now they move them instead of further stimulating them and encouraging them to do even better work. Is that a concern for our defenders, is social sensitivity manifested by people who have lost their jobs, without a job, and by chance are members of some of the cooperatives? They cannot receive compensation from the Employment Service and are being treated as unemployed. The question arises as to why such automation is only because the members of the cooperative are members of this provision, and they neither benefit from this cooperative in most cases, nor have any income and income. Is that social concern and sensitivity to these co-workers of this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80186	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80187	Thank you very much. Well, your colleague was well established, the laws that were passed in 2013 clearly showed where we are heading, where we are going and where we are going, what kind of concern about Croatian defenders are. There is no possibility of the Law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during the unemployment of NN 153/13, which states that an employee cooperative cannot receive compensation while he is unemployed. The Pension Insurance Act NN 157/13 forces the cooperative manager to have pension insurance, which is essentially a ban on pensioners being managers. All I need is the one that can't even be a member of the cooperative if they're taking pensions. It's the only thing that needs to be amended and added to the law, and then everything will be regulated, then no defense cooperatives are likely to be in office anymore, probably that's the goal. Instead of such criminal anti-defense laws, they should have made the Croatian space european, that European laws, which have already been proven to be good repairs of what is wrong, stimulate further development and membership of cooperatives, are also controlled by the Croatian Association to work and operate under the law, to make bodies do their jobs, to control the functioning and spending of money, to eventually sanction those who have wrongly spent money and to bring together the survival of small producers to be competitive on the Croatian market. These are the objectives that should have been included in these legal provisions, not this party's staffing which is clearly visible and...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80188	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80189	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary MPs, esteemed parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much for this debate, but allow me to point out a few of the things that have been presented here, the distinguished parliamentary representative, Mr. Djakic, who does not actually stand. So that's where you implicated one variant that there were a series of irregularities that weren't followed. I must say very responsibly that the ministry has also carried out administrative oversight, and the DORH has also carried out its tasks and rejected the application of the defender which was filed in 2012 and it has been found that there have been no irregularities. I also think that there is a bit of a mixed matter here, so it is not a follower of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives, but a center. Likewise, when we discussed the composition of the Governing Council, let me mention once again what I said in the opening presentation, so the amendments to the Government of Croatia were found there to be representatives of the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Agriculture, given the large part of the merits of both the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. So once again, I must say, the center has wind in its back by the government's representatives who are also directing them but who care primarily about the interests of the cooperative. Cooperatives once again, very clearly, cooperatives are independent in their business in these changes of the law of the state do not have any effect on their business to put it under their jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80190	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80191	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, the cooperatives clearly write what and how the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives works. They say the Supervisory Board hasn't worked properly for two years. The position of the state budget, the means of operating at the level, you said from a million and 200, they write out of 900 thousand kuna and the spending of these funds is very questionable for them. Representatives, legal representatives are not those who are in the cooperative alliance, those who have been elected but someone else in the alliance decides on all those old ones and that is what they say as irregularities. As far as the center is concerned, it's going to be taken over by the current Alliance of Cooperatives and not by the council, so it's the same devil. The Board of Directors will, on behalf of the Centre, make decisions, impose on the Director, control everything that is necessary. The board of directors and his deputy, as the minister will say, will elect the board of directors. Think about what we're talking about? Well, you have to admit it to yourself and to us, so we're not little kids that we don't understand what you're hiding in this law. After all, you've clearly written, and we can read it. So the Board of Directors will appoint the director and the deputy to be appointed by the minister. It'll be a party, like a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80192	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80193	Thank you. It is truly amazing that, the deputy minister declares what he stated that the administrative council, of course, does not take over the assets of the former Croatian Association Alliance. Well, that makes sense, of course. A new institutional framework is being created called the centre but the centre is managed by a governing council that is a political body that is the result of an agreement between a couple of ministries. In this case, between the four ministries. And to say that politics will not have an impact on cooperatives is absolutely simply unfounded. You've done everything in your power to control politics by cooperating, you've done everything. Here you are predicting not only the statutes of five members of the governing council that the ministries will propose but also the statutes of another body. What other bodies are these? What do you intend to start yet? So it's not just about six people, so the director plus five members of the board of directors, who will be politically instrumentalised, but also some other bodies that will be managed by obvious cooperatives in Croatia. So, only control of the cooperatives. And that doesn't exist anywhere in Europe. You have nowhere to go, this is a precedent for politics in such a rough way to enter an area that must be freed from politics. People get together for the sake of the market and for their own interests, for their creativity, and for wanting to protect their production. That's their goal. And here the government group enters, enters an area where they cannot enter in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80194	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80195	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, I haven't been in the Parliament in a long time, but I've heard a lot of things in this short time here. I've heard that I won't know the introduction of fiscal registers is a great burden for entrepreneurs. I've heard that starting a company will be 10 kuna. You know how much it costs to start a company for 10 kuna? About 1,500 kuna. And you know why? Because the institutions that do this have wind in their backs like you said here by the state bodies. The centre will have wind in its back because of this kind of management by the government. Where is the greatest potential of cooperative? In the village, in agriculture, in food production. And today we're discussing here with the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship. And he doesn't even discuss the minister, the deputy minister says something in particular, some small information. We point to problems and I wonder, I wonder if we're going to associate craftsmen with cooperatives, so they're going to be the ones who will make the most potential, or should be the Ministry of Agriculture. And then I wonder if there's the greatest potential in agriculture, so why do we need a center? So let every ministry be the wind in the back of those who produce, who join together. And let's not set up again some kind of organization that's going to be an obstacle, another step on the road towards achieving some business goal and we're doing it. We're constantly creating obstacles to people. Well, I feel like when I talk to them like we're on a horseback ride, there's more and more obstacles up there and the horses are getting harder and harder to skip.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80196	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80197	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, when you spoke of this section, you pointed out that there were indeed a number of irregularities in cooperatives. Then I am surprised at the criticism that this series of irregularities will be resolved in a way that is primarily the principle of volunteering, and the responsibility that this law opens in any case. And then I can... that suits someone so truly. So we, too, who had cooperatives, who funded cooperatives, supported cooperatives, didn't answer in a way that investment in money by the ministry should be transparent, not that what was a very good case, give me money and don't ask me where we're going with those money, and when it comes to certain controls, then we'll end the cooperative, and then we'll somehow start another cooperative and look for other support. That's enough. That's enough for real. We should certainly make order. This law allows it. And when we also talk about employment and... people, so we all know very well that the buses that went to cooperative assemblies were really organized, and we know in what way and which people were supposed to be in those cooperatives, and that's why it came down to having a series of irregularities and an absolutely bad situation in cooperatives. This law certainly provides for order, work, and responsibility for what we do and responsibility for the means we receive for the work of cooperatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80198	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80199	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Cooperative Act defines cooperatives as voluntary, open, independent and independent society managed by its members and which, through cooperatives, achieve the objectives for which the cooperative is established. Members shall, by their work, improve and protect their individual and common economic, economic, social and other needs and interests through mutual assistance through the use of cooperative services. The cooperative is a special form of entrepreneurship and has a mark and company of persons and companies of capital. The establishment of a cooperative requires a minimum of 7 persons legal and physical. In addition to the principles mentioned above, cooperation between cooperatives is open to education and professional training, economic activity, business surveillance, as well as possible cooperation between cooperatives. Association in cooperatives allows the small and medium-sized business sector to go to new markets, especially the large European market with 500 million inhabitants. Membership in cooperatives allows for the expansion of production, better quality of products and profitability, and as a main goal in this recession time and new jobs. By means of cooperatives and small producers within a particular local community, they can offer their well-known local products that can be more competitive and profitable by association. So far, cooperatives of all types of activities, agricultural, fishing, crafts, residential, service and others have been organized into regional professional alliances and necessarily members of the Croatian Association. Such diversity of cooperatives and the diversity of their interests made the work and functioning of such a vast alliance difficult to find solutions that would suit all. This is one of the reasons for the proposed amendments and additions to this Cooperative Act. Co-operation in the Republic of Croatia is not an unknown concept because it has almost 150 years of tradition. Cooperatives were small economic institutions, especially in agriculture. They were carriers of agricultural and livestock production. These materials also mention the negative side of cooperativeism at the time of socialism when there were abuses, and the consequences are also reflected today in the mistrust of cooperatives. I have no intention of defending socialism and possible abuses in the work of former cooperatives in the '80s and '90s, but my knowledge of the mid-'60s about economic activities and the work of cooperatives is more than favourable. I'd love to, maybe with nostalgia, remember those times because my first job was in just one agricultural community at the site of a versatile accountant. It was in the mid-'60s when new trained staffs, economists and agronomists pulled by the sleeve to get to work. Unfortunately, today is a whole other sad story. From that time and the end of the '60s and the experience of working in the community certainly there was no abuse of today's proportions when almost no days without all kinds of crime. Agricultural cooperatives have given each village great pain in the organisation and development of agriculture and livestock. The cooperative gave its cooperatives financial advances, repromaterials, fruit material, artificial fertilisers and educated them professionally. The peasant only cared about production, there was no problem with the purchase of its products. Baby Beef had no problem ending up on the Italian market, everything was agreed and charged within the time limit. It was the right thing to do until someone was afraid of a rich peasant. Today it's another black story, when a farmer does something and there's no one to sell it to. My colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for going back a little, but I had to remind myself of what cooperatives used to be. I am sure that today cooperatives could play an important role in promoting and promoting organic agricultural production that could place its products on a selective international market. For such a production of conditions, we have as little as a few countries because we have hundreds of thousands of hectares of uncontaminated and unprocessed land. Cooperatives can also encourage other sectors of entrepreneurship beyond the agricultural sector. Cooperatives in Croatia should be what they really are in Europe and the world, a desirable form of economic activity in order to so eagerly expect the production and creation of new jobs. Cooperatives in the world and the European Union also have great importance in employment, have a significant market share in the economy. According to European Commission data, around 250,000 cooperatives with 163 million members are operating in the European Union today and employ more than 5 million people. About 50% of the European Union's agriculture is co-organised, and in particular the high shares in Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark and France. And here's a nice piece of information for my friend Stephen. A particularly well-organised dairy system in Poland is where only 20% of dairy is in the hands of foreign large capital while the rest of 80% is in the hands of cooperatives, therefore producers. In Italy, for example, the share of cooperatives is almost 15% in the total economy and such data should open our eyes in Croatia and be an incentive for better treatment of cooperatives. According to the Proposer, these amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act want to improve the structure and functioning of the cooperative system. The Croatian Association of Associations is transformed into a Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, which should be a better organisation that is ready to assist cooperatives in a shifty market that has often been fatal to small producers. Amendments to the law abolish the mandatory membership of the cooperative, relieve the financial operations of cooperatives and open the possibility of entrepreneurship. It gives greater importance to the principle of volunteering compared to the current mandatory membership, but remains the possibility of joining cooperative professional and territorial alliances. The current rate of reinvestment achieved in further development is also changed from 30% to 20%, which should save cooperatives more than 5 million. Provisions relating to the supervision and infringements of cooperative principles are repealed, as cooperatives as well as other legal entities are already under appropriate business supervision. The process of eradicating cooperatives from the Register of Trade Courts has also been envisaged as it aims to gain insight into the real state of active cooperatives whose business has been adapted to the Cooperatives Act. All these amendments to the law should create an incentive framework to strengthen the competitiveness of cooperatives and their impact on both rural economic development and the development and growth of the economy in local communities and society as a whole. And finally, if cooperatives work well in the EU, then there is no reason why in the Republic of Croatia and the EU not to raise itself to a higher level than it is today. The Croatian Retirement Party Club will support these amendments to the Cooperative Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80200	Now we'll move on to the replicas, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80201	Thank you very much. Well, when you first started talking, I thought you wouldn't support this law because it lacked the most important part of what you were talking about. True, today's cooperative in Croatia is a sad story compared to the former cooperative. Perhaps a little more joyful than that first cooperative that is evoked by the memories of those who remember them a little longer. But you don't really think with the experience you have and the positive thinking you have that the establishment of another bureaucratic institution will develop cooperatives. If we really wanted to develop cooperatives and help this peasant to remain free and independent, then we would have built into the law to help every producer's society, let's say in agriculture, here in the dairy you talked about which group of minimum 10 cooperatives we would give them for three years all the funds they needed for the functioning of the cooperative. I agree with this part that it shouldn't be mandatory in the alliance, absolutely. But it's easy to get out, it's easy to get out of the law. But a bureaucratic obstacle to the establishment of another center, another agency, another parasite of this society will not do you any good, and you're probably aware of that yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80202	Zeljko Schamper, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80203	Well, colleague Hrg, you've been through enough of your foreigner in that farm, and the data tells us I've read what it means in Europe where there are so many cooperatives over 250,000. So why didn't something happen that we were going towards a larger number? We only have 1169 cooperatives, 0.4% of the total number in Europe. So if this Croatian Union of Cooperatives has been so good and something is now trying to do something better that I don't understand so much criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80204	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80205	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Schamper, I'm glad, but I'm usually a supporter that it's not good to go back to history. And as for cooperatives, it's back to some kind of history. I don't think that's good, and it's a lot of painful wounds that are simple and in our rural areas, they've made people very skeptical of cooperatives. But no matter what, even under these circumstances, they look forward to the future. And in these circumstances, and I agree in that part that there are potentials, we talked about it, mainly about the placements of agricultural production improvements. And we are, I'll tell you with pride that in my midst the first producer organization was founded. We don't need Poland to tell us what kind of model we need. We are the first dairy producer organization established in our county with more counties which wants to improve of course. And there's also the idea that cooperatives in some way but they need to be relieved, they need to be enabled, they need to be relieved. This way will certainly not make it easier for them to use the EU funds spoken of, and we see that by the end of the year it will not be possible. So we should certainly encourage these cooperatives to develop. And it seems to me that somehow you know that area well, you understand it all, understand certain negative things that show up in that part, but at the same time you support it. Well, I can't understand it at all, but in that old saying, it kind of looks to me like it's kind of like the one we're good at, but like the geese in the fog, we're still gonna back it up like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80206	Zeljko Schamper, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80207	Well, my friend Stephen, for the first time in my life, we may not agree on those definitions, which is good, which is not good. I had to go back into our past, I'm from the peasant family and my first job as I said was in a farming community that made a lot, not just her, but all the cooperatives in Croatia. It was a regulated market, farmers knew what to produce and who to sell to and what was most important to get money for it. Today we know it's not like that. Therefore, and during your government, much has been invested, you have boasted much about how much this has been invested in agriculture, today we see what this agriculture is like, and especially where our village is. It's great for me to get into my Hlebine, the world's naive center, when I see that from 480 houses 180 abandoned. These are the results of your reforms and your work in agriculture. This is trying to do something better, it's moving through a new organisation, and maybe it'll get something from these European funds if good projects are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80208	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80209	My dear colleague, Schamper, you spoke and, of course, I respect everything you said about supporting the system's upgrades. So, you've talked among other things about improving the system and in the context of the debate on this law. Unfortunately, however, the system relating to the establishment and survival of defence cooperatives, now I will concentrate on it, is not improving. Today, speaking on behalf of the club, I mentioned among other things a very successful cooperation from Sibenik that deals with olive growing, whose olive oil is highly appreciated, it receives awards. In the meantime, during the debate, I got an e-mail, so I'll read it to you. So it was signed by Mr. Smrček, so the successful director of this cooperative. He says, "For the sake of the new Pension Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, cooperative managers cannot be volunteers. For this reason, I had to resign as a volunteer manager of the Social Service Cooperatives Association and since the cooperative has no money to pay the manager at the end of 6 months after 30 June 2014, the defence cooperative will have to close and shut down." So, when we talk about the system, then we should look at, of course, all the laws that are being passed, and this is really shocking information to me that one such good and so quality entrepreneurial cooperative who primarily gathered defenders from PTSD who found both work and comfort will have to close down. So we need to look differently and more closely at what's called the system, no matter what segment of the system it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80210	Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80211	Well, my colleague Kosor, I wasn't talking about defense cooperatives this time, it was one of the topics of that law on the implementation of the Law of Defence Rights. However, as far as defence cooperatives are concerned, I am familiar with a very good example of the cooperation of defence cooperatives through an agreement with our largest food industry "Podravka" where the 4-year agreement was in force until last year and the agreement continues. There is both satisfaction and satisfaction in both sides of the agreement. The defenders produced through their cooperatives, placed their products, and had a sure ransom. Therefore, I can only talk about this matter as far as defense cooperatives are concerned, and I have not touched it in my debate. But I agree with you that when it comes to some topic that all the structures of our citizens should be systematically solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80212	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, a colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80213	I thank the esteemed vice president, the esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. A few moments ago, my colleague Schemper said that this legislative proposal expects a positive effect on the development of cooperatives, we heard that he is emotionally connected to the cooperatives themselves, but I'm afraid that this positive effect with this bill will be lagging behind. However, what I have been saddened by practically since the beginning of Croatian independence, the cooperative is mentioned through some kind of negative context. It's also used in some kind of Soviet, communist terminology as something that's not good. I don't think that's the case, cooperative is a good thing because we see for ourselves that in Europe we have 300 thousand cooperatives with over 4.5 million cooperatives or employees, which is proof that cooperative is a good form of employment. However, if we look at statistical indicators in the Republic of Croatia, we see that the situation regarding cooperatives in 2011 was somewhat better compared to the end of 2013. So, 31.12.2011 in the Republic of Croatia we had 2060 cooperatives, 28 thousand cooperatives and 4200 employees. At the end of 2013, we had 1169 cooperatives, 19.5 thousand cooperatives with 2734 employees. So we see in those two years that cooperatives and cooperatives are falling into the Republic of Croatia. Practically 9 months ago, on our benches, we had the Law on Cooperatives, and then during these amendments to the Cooperatives Act, it was said that these changes provide assumptions for the continuation of the legal work of the Croatian Alliance and that there will be greater opportunities for the entrepreneurial way of doing business. At the time we were saying that the Ministry of crafts puts their paws on and on the cooperative, we feel the same thing today. Today 9 months after the amendments to the law we have a new law before us, so we are shutting down the Croatian Union of Cooperatives and the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship as a legal follower of the Croatian Association. In the morning debate, someone said that this bill provides a number of positive legal solutions. We don't see it in the HDSSB club, which is a series of positive legal solutions. The abolition of mandatory membership, so we mentioned that membership is 55 kuna, so it is not some large amount of money, that it will be disbursed by members of cooperatives and cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. Why is law-making an emergency procedure? So did nine months ago today. Before we even discussed today's bill of law, last week we received the bench and amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the debate itself is under emergency procedure, we get amendments from the Government of the Republic of Croatia practically to the full amendments to this law. We find it unacceptable, it goes with its throat into strawberries, it should go with changes to this law in two readings, not an emergency procedure. However, there is a good sentence in the assessment of the situation, she says, "The power of cooperative entrepreneurship is reflected in the number of cooperative members, the number of employees, the income they make, and the benefits they bring to the local community. The objective of the cooperative is not exclusively to gain profits, but to achieve the well-being and benefits of the interests of the cooperative members and the local community in which the cooperative operates. That is why the cooperative's work has multiple positive effects that cannot be measured and valued only at the level of the profit achieved." This is a great line, if it weren't for a dead letter on paper. However, if you look at the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment, we come up with data on an unemployed person, and an unemployed person is considered a person aged 15 to 65 who is not in a working relationship, is actively looking for a job and is not a member of a cooperative. That's what the second law says. So you can't be a member of the cooperative and be considered an unemployed person. If we speak in the explanation that it is not only the objective of cooperatives to gain profits but to gain profits and benefits from the interests of the members of the cooperative. How can we encourage members of the cooperative to be unemployed and to shorten their time by working in some kind of community? This is nonsense to us, namely, one law that cuts the other law, and that's not good. In the term of office of this government is a series of such negative examples where one law says one thing, another law says another thing. That we should work on the development of cooperative society, we agree, of course we agree, but we don't have a cooperative strategy like we don't have a series of other strategies. How to unite farmers to perform on a huge European market if we know that we have a negative balance of imports and food exports, in 2012, 1 billion euros of negative balance, in 2013 billions and $250 million of negative balance. Even in sugar exports, a negative balance was shown in 2013 compared to 2012. That kind of merger could be right through the cooperative. So we know that 1169 cooperatives operate in Croatia, and we also know that there are 160 thousand family farms. How do these economies connect to cooperatives to be competitive? There's this one, there's this one chain, and it's about to be a manufacturer, a distributor and a trader. The question is, how does such a system fit into cooperatives? Association is a necessity, there is no individual who can successfully deal with both production and processing, marketing and sales. It is the cooperatives that should be the driver of the economy, the driver of the development of agricultural production. However, this legal solution does not see it coming. Once again, the ministry is pawing on cooperatives and nothing else. And that's why the HDSSB club won't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80214	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80215	Thank you very much. Comrade Czech, you said this country has no strategy, so I quote: "The cooperative strategies."but this country, or this government, has no economic development strategy either. It seems, in fact, that this government's goal is what is long-term envisaged by some other documents and even in the documents of some accelerations outside our country. In fact, it is the fact that the Croatian people are getting the poorer they are, the more they are through imports. The control of cooperatives, so I'm talking about the topic now, so from that center is the control of imports and exports. Don't let God make cooperatives work properly and start exporting. Well, that's what bothers the importers this government is very supportive of. Both the Croatian people and Croatian farmers must first of all be impoverished and that is their goal, that is the strategy of this government against which they should actually be fiercely opposed. That the state put in what you say to the paw, that it usurped various offices, central offices, centres like this, seduction, agencies, institutes, chambers, that's quite clear. So then craft chamber, economic chamber, HBOR, Croatian Here is the union of cooperatives, the society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities and everything else. That's a fact, you can tell by these legal proposals that come to our benches from day to day, instead of dealing entirely with what's contrary to the objectives of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80216	Igor Češek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80217	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, you also know when we at the HDSSB club said there was no strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture and what we were told was that we did not need it because they inherited the common agricultural policy of the European Union. So we don't need a strategy, we inherited something, of course I disagree. You have seen for yourself from statistical indicators how much imports of food products into the Republic of Croatia, who can guarantee us that all these products are healthy, that they have their nutritional value as they should have, and while our products unfortunately fail, they remain in some refrigerators for a year to later serve as food game or go to various lower processing sectors, and we eat a very questionable quality of food that we import.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80218	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80219	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Czech, I agree with your opinion that cooperative is a good thing. Well, it's good, and even in Europe, they recognize it, and all this data that you've been telling us about is how good it is, and we, if we want European values... of course and production in that sense, and that's irrefutable. The importance of defence cooperatives was a great deal of speech in that part and employment, but also in that therapeutic part which is priceless, invaluable simply from whatever aspect we look at and that there are savings in the health system as well, without talking about the reduction in the number of suicides and in which there were enough speeches. But it's a special area, I agree with you, agriculture. Agriculture which is a strategic branch, is constantly spoken of by the strategic branch, and in that strategic branch... of cooperative, there is no, there is no strategy. And believe that there is an exceptional interest, regardless of today's catastrophic situation in agriculture, that we do not repeat those data on failed OPGs, etc. He's got a lot of interest. I was in a presentation a short time ago, the possibilities of these European funds, the rural development programme, amazingly how much interest there is, what a great interest in these possibilities. Unfortunately, it will not be possible to achieve this in this year, and I therefore believe that certainly cooperativeship, mainly in this area of agriculture, should be given special attention and in this part facilitate, not in some way tighten, but simply loosen up and help them to find their own space and function in the development of agriculture in the ultimate preservation of the Croatian village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80220	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80221	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, what to say rather than agree with your replica. Yeah, you were talking about defense cooperatives. Well, most of these cooperatives have very little or almost no financial benefit, but psychological benefits are huge for these people. We heard, of course, that it's better for these people to produce something, something they do, even if it's something small, better than sitting around in cafes, bookshops, etc. And when you were talking about agricultural cooperatives that I prefer, and I wish there were as many as possible, so why? Here, according to Eurostat research, 50% of young people are unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. You know, in rural areas, unfortunately, the low education structure of the population. How to help them, but by joining them in cooperatives where they could place their own product. It is also a population that may not have the Internet or know how to sell their product, but if someone, let's say, pulled them out and showed them, the Croatian village would certainly advance, live, and here, I hope that will happen in the future. Unfortunately, with measures like this and these governments, we will not experience it, but perhaps with some measures of future governments, it may still happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80222	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80223	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, at the beginning of your presentation you set out in one part of the finding that, indeed, almost 1,000 cooperatives are less than almost a year. But you're no longer anything... which is why now somewhere around 1033 cooperatives, before they were over 2,000, and they're still spinning nearly 2.1 billion kunas and incomes, gain is not so much compared to the number of cooperatives themselves. I think the conclusion is one that is imposed on everyone, which is that this law, and first of all, this government wants to introduce order into the work of cooperatives and just what many in that part wanted to be a mess, and when we have the law already in force for more than 10 years, and many of the strategic provisions that we said were 10 years old, and now we're facing the fact that nothing is good today. And it hasn't happened in a year or two years, that part of which in cooperatives and... in agriculture takes a long time, and these are the beginnings that we're not satisfied with that state, let's go look for new legal provisions and let's go look for a new part of the strategy that what wasn't good was. And what we see today is that we put it into the future strategy of development and cooperatives really outside, what we said in Europe is almost all the members of certain cooperatives, cooperatives have a lot of, full series, here we talk more... we talk about cooperatives, about defenders, about agriculture, because there is a system out there, there is trust in the state, there is trust in laws. But when we talk about cooperatives and their efficiency and agriculture and primarily defenders, then we can also read from some conclusions, or reports that were rarely even made that 500 thousand kunas were spent on office material alone, and for a real strategy, the right to invest in agriculture and other things was practically nothing left. The bottom line is, we can do it ourselves, which is why it's like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80224	Igor Češek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80225	Here, thank you. ... I didn't, to be honest, understand you very well, it's a little weaker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've determined the same reduction in the number of cooperatives, but what's interesting is that nine months ago we passed some kind of cooperative law. 9 months later, we go back to some legal solution that does nothing but establish the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship. What's he gonna bring? Time will tell. I doubt we're going to achieve anything at all, but why do we have to go practically into any changes to the law in an emergency procedure without a public debate, without any further explanations, but the kind of reverse that would be said? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80226	Now we're gonna have a break by 3:00, and first of all, there's gonna be a colleague named Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80227	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC and Independents, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80228	... Dear Deputy Minister, here today we have done a lot of controversy and talk about cooperation, but I will first and foremost stress that cooperatives are economic activity and a very serious and relevant economic system that shares the fate of the entire Croatian economy. [[Conversation subsequently turned on]] When we talk about cooperatives, then we think not only of agricultural cooperatives, but also of other defences, consumers, workers, housing, savings and credit associations. In view of our history that has also been discussed today, we are mostly talking about agricultural cooperatives today, most often talking about it and thinking about it most often and thinking about it. Which, by the time of the 1990s, was on the rise. At the time, cooperatives achieved good results, they were developed and organised companies mainly in the countryside and in charge of the overall development of the area in which they operated. Also, when we look at today what agricultural cooperatives look like, much worse than before. When we look at the savings-credit cooperative in Croatia, unfortunately he is more to us. In a few years, we passed the Credit Union Act, which was practically to replace savings-credit cooperatives, but not only did they replace them, but they practically shut them down, most of them shut down. Now, looking at the indicators of the state of cooperatives by the activities they are dealing with, it is evident that the greatest occupation with agricultural cooperatives is about 40%, which is not surprising given this tradition that I spoke of and the fact that the cooperatives founded in the early and mid-20th century survived until today mainly with more cooperatives than the average in Croatia. Part of these cooperatives are classified in the processing industry category, and since they deal with the processing of agricultural products and their finalisation, they belong somewhere around 200 cooperatives in the service category. According to the available data, the situation in cooperative operations is visible, so a slight decline in agricultural production, a fall in construction, a fall in trade, a slight increase is something in the processing industry but this suggests, a sign of this that cooperatives have directed their activities both to the processing and to the finalisation of products, to manage the crisis more easily, to fight through this situation that we have and should in some ways be guidelines to direct the work of existing cooperatives. So, the growing market requirements are, the growing market requirements set according to the final quality indigenous products in agriculture that many cooperatives already have, I don't know the top wine, olive oil with a recognizable sign on the market. And since the processing and operation of cooperatives requires and a certain number of employees in associations, it is interesting in cooperatives that there are a large number of cooperatives and over 58 without any employees, which is certainly an obstacle to setting up a more serious cooperative business. So 58 cooperatives don't have any employees. And now, we could easily say that Croatian cooperatives have had a good past, the present is quite burdened by the economic situation and what their future will be like, when we look at this draft law that is here in the emergency procedure, certainly not, and according to everything from the European Union, from the Commission, from the analysis of our mutual potential shows that it could have a future. In fact, when you look at and compare yourself with Europe, we are nowhere near the level of some countries like Italy, France, not to mention the Scandinavian countries they are carrying, for example. Italy carries 5%, cooperative activities carry 5% of the gross social product. France has about 17,000 cooperatives of different orientations and is about 2% to 3% of gross social product. So that's 0.02% for us and it's really bad. What should be done is not to pass a law that practically leads the state to enter the cooperative system for unknown reasons, practically taking over the management and direction of cooperative business, which is not good. We think that we need to concentrate on some other things, we need to adopt legislation on the cooperative way of doing business, this regulation must respect the specificities of cooperative society. Most of all, we will help cooperatives if we review the tax treatment of cooperatives, profit tax, income tax, and perhaps VAT, and in this sense evaluate the application of the cooperative business model, and strengthen, and motivate work through cooperatives. It may also be necessary to propose the licensing of cooperatives with regard to e.g. that there is already licensing in the fishing sector, perhaps to do some other, I don't know, to buy agricultural products, to conduct education of cooperatives, cooperative managers, potential cooperative members through permanent information, round tables, to meet, to create an atmosphere about the benefits of cooperativeism in this country. I think it is necessary, and this is what cooperatives themselves have done in some way and organized to engage cooperatives in the implementation of the branding project, which I think is extremely important and ultimately to adopt a cooperative strategy. As we usually do, we make a bad law first, and then we make a strategy. I think the strategy for the next period was to be adopted first, not three years of changing and passing the law three times. When we look at what we have, we have nothing of the law, at least not of what would allow development, and we have no strategy. If we continue this way with the superficial adoption of the law, with the introduction of the state into everything, where it should not be flown, I think we will also destroy the part that can be... and very quickly recovering part of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80229	Thank you. We've got plenty of replicas. The first one called Domagoj Hajdukovic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Škare-Ozbolt, actually with your introduction I would almost completely agree, you gave an interesting overview of the state of co-operation in Croatia, even some of the remarks you made at the beginning are acceptable. However, if we compare ourselves, and you compare us to the Italian and French economies, I think we should find something comparable to the Croatian situation. Why don't we compare ourselves to our neighbors? Why not compare with Austria, which is much more suitable for Croatian conditions? You compare us to France, which is a market of 60 million people, which is a highly developed economy that has been developing in market conditions for years. Croatia is concerned with the market conditions of the economy, we are still young, so we have 24 years on it. As far as the strategy is concerned, you're saying that we don't have a cooperative strategy, we don't have a particular strategy, but we have a strategy to develop small entrepreneurship that we've brought, thank God for the first time in this Parliament's history and this country we've brought in such a strategy. And you say it's a bad law, but you didn't explain it enough by me. Namely, how bad the law can be if it releases parafiscal cooperatives and gives them exactly that, means freedom to choose whether to be members of a particular... association or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80231	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80232	Dear colleague, I compared with countries that, for example, have highly developed production, agricultural cooperatives, craft cooperatives and others, which are primarily France and Italy. I could have listed Austria for you, but none of these countries have this kind of involvement between the state and the state's apparatus in the work of cooperatives, either at the roof level or at the lower level. I've been complaining all morning about this state interference and the establishment of the center. I think it's completely unnecessary and that we absolutely need to concentrate on things that will allow cooperatives to develop. As for the release of parafiscal duties, I just didn't belong to you, I just don't support that kind of demagogy, that you're telling me now that a cooperative that has a profit of 100 thousand kunas a year will be released for 30,000 kunas of parafiscal duties, I'd say, yes, it should be released, but a membership fee of 55 kuna, I don't see it as a problem. And I ask you a question of what will be financed by the board of directors, five members, and another body formed by the statute, from which they will be financed? Will the government give money for the work of roof associations and cooperatives? Well, they're market units. We're totally entering the market business area, and I think that's not good, and that's why I said that I think this law needs to be concentrated on other things rather than the State's interference with the roof level of cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80233	Thank you. Dubravko Bilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, distinguished colleagues, in fact, you have a very nice, stylishly started your discussion, could be paraphrased that Croatian cooperatives in the past had a future, there is no future in the present, and in your future there will be no future under this law. I come from a small environment and in which cooperatives as a model are very important and as the basis for turning some cash flows and movement, but more like one form of social entrepreneurship where just these small farmers will, not only enable them but also craftsmen to appear on the market and take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the employment office, so paying the cooperative manager for a year which could then, I say, economically run the cooperatives and relieve them of exactly the part that is most problematic to them, which is how to sell their product and how to find a buyer for what they can produce. I don't actually see a big problem in what you're saying about this Croatian Centre for Joint Entrepreneurship that will be established, I actually see its role in what is stated in the law as a framework for promotion and support for the development of cooperative entrepreneurship. That's what we need right now. We need to get rid of that name that's tied to the cooperative that she's pulling out of the 1950s where the cooperatives have been taking away property. I see at this very center the possibility that cooperatives promote all of its virtues and advantages that exist and thus that this roof association creates a positive climate of cooperation in which people would then actively engage in the work... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80235	Thank you. Be a little faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I would agree with you. So the cooperatives they will provide and the products they will provide are necessary for Croatia. Croatia does not have any consumer cooperatives, and at the same time has some foreign cooperatives such as spar and Iperkop, for what? So that's where we absolutely need to work. What I object to is the involvement of the state in a roof cooperative institution, nothing else, that's the problem. What's this all about? That's not good. So if there are problems in that roof association, then it is dealt with in another way, and not that the state is now installing that the government appoints members of the council that will now manage this roof association, that is all I object to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80237	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of Skara Ozbolt and your debate confirmed what we talked about on several occasions today in the morning what the potential of cooperatives in the area of agriculture is, it's undeniable and in that part of this data you've presented certainly speaks for itself enough. As for the fact that if they had cooperatives of a good past, I'd be a little restrained, there was everything, maybe somewhere I'd say where, and there were really painful wounds and there were those wrinkles and verses that were saying where ours with the ceiling grain was. Well, here I am speaking in favor of this law, too, so that our minister Marasu won't be singing to the ministers where our grain is, that's what I'm thinking. It is therefore important to lay down what the future will be, given that it is an extremely sensitive area, since there are also new production and market requirements. Today, such tasks are being put in front of our farmers where local self - administration is making efforts to help keep it up to date. And for that reason, I believe that it is necessary that this and the concrete measures that you are talking about first of all with a strategy that will clearly define things without State interference, and that in a maximum way enable these producers to create and do a quality cooperative, as is done in our European family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80239	Thank you. Here's the hatch.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80240	When I said that in the past, agricultural cooperatives had been much better developed and arranged these are facts, problems and some ideological examples absolutely were. However, we cannot dispute that in the past Croatia has had an extremely developed agricultural cooperative. I wish it were different now, of course. When you look at Italy that has fantasticly developed the cooperative system and which has the strongest step in the share of GDP in Europe, then I see no reason why we as a neighbouring country could not use such models and such development of cooperatives that would enable the development of the Croatian economy. That's all there is to it. I would prefer that the ministry now dedicated itself to calling for cooperatives and building a strategy, having a broad public debate and bringing it here as soon as possible. It's been two years and there's no strategy. It would have been better if the strategy had come first, and then the law. Maybe a law like this wouldn't bother so much if there was a strategy to see where it was going. And my main objection is this very influence of the state on something that is the freest part of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80241	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Vesna Scare Ozbolt, they have a strategy, this government has a strategy. In fact, the strategy has been continued since that government, which is an import lobby. Control, the government's usurpation of cooperatives through the centre is exactly that, controlling that God does not allow these cooperatives to achieve excellent results and even go into export. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's this government's strategy, but some of the others weren't different. Mr. One told you, and that's what I was going to say about our history of cooperatives and how a gentleman can't say from HDZ, but I dare say, "Dude Tito, where ours from the attic is grain," so I would ask myself about our beeboy where the grain from Đakovština is, let this gentleman tell us where the grain of Đakovština is even though there is no cooperative and there was no cooperative in Đakovova in Đakovština. But the fact that the state usurps everything and this centre for the cooperative economy, and then we're talking about that there's been an attempted coup in the Chamber of Commerce, and they're about to put the center for the Croatian Football Federation on hold. Maybe the minister in charge will put his center in there too, so he can control the football and all the baths. It's an incredible kidnapping of everything and setting up its own people to control everything in the state and centralize, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80243	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80244	Well, here's a esteemed colleague of mine who's "friend Tito, where's our grain" I've been talking about the other part, not Tito, but the grain, so the grain was there and now there's no grain. There is not at least Croatian grain to the extent that it was before. And that whoever took it... So the fact is that there is a lot of resistance to the real quality development of cooperatives, cooperatives in Croatia and finally to create a real, quality strategy that will bring us closer to Europe. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is a little absurd that yet it is realistic that we in Croatia already have European cooperatives without any of our European cooperatives being created in another country. That's just as interesting. And why is that? Because we're weak. And why are we weak? Because we don't have a quality strategy. We don't really know what we want or where we need to support something to make it better. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80245	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Ozbolt, when you look at just a quote of the reasons of the Government of the Republic of Croatia why they set up a Croatian centre, then in principle it becomes clear to you what you want to get. Because they say that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship and a body with public powers, where the management and records of cooperatives and cooperative alliances are public authority and confirm the belief and other documents that the Croatian Centre for Social Entrepreneurship will issue under public authority will have the property of public documents. Here they show us that it will no longer be a voluntary association but something that will be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And then to back it up, they tell us what public authority is and everything else. However, the most important thing is that members of the Governing Council will appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What does the Government of the Republic of Croatia have to do with 10, 50 or 100 cooperatives. They joined there because they have an interest in being together to maybe make a product together, that perhaps together they place the product on the market of Croatia and Western Europe to be more favourable, to simply achieve the price, so that they can compete on the market. And then I don't see what the government has to do with that association of theirs. The government has its own programme, the government has its own budget with which it will or will not finance the programme of these cooperatives. But very interesting is not enough that the government will appoint a board of directors, but that will be appointed by the Government's Board of Directors. So the basic reason for changing this law is this. He just wants to put everything under one hat and he wants to conduct something. And if anything could have helped certain groups of businessmen and, above all, Croatian farmers, it could have helped cooperatives. It is precisely that they are united, that they are greater, that they have much more in common than many individual products with which they cannot appear on the market. And then the government gets involved, and she just wants to conduct. But it's not the government, it's one minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80247	Comrade Ozbolt, before Comrade Ozbolt, please, I will give you a reply to the replica, but I am using the opportunity to welcome the officials of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament on a study visit. [[Intruder: Dear fellow Shucker.]] Please give a round of applause for them. ... Comrade Ozbolt, please choose your reply to the replica. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80248	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, you know me when I compared the current law to this bill then I simply compared the articles to what was changed, which was deleted and what was added. So, here, it's absolutely bothering me from the very beginning, but I see many others, and even from the ruling coalition, it's the very influence of the government that now appoints a board of directors, the administrative council. You could have established a center instead of a cooperative alliance but without the influence of the government. In another way, people in the centre could be named but they should not be appointed by the government, they should not be appointed by the ministry. What's that for? There is no such thing in any European country. That's not how cooperativeism works. And that's the problem. And what's the worst thing is that the cooperatives created a certain asset. You are now naming the people appointed by the Government giving them the legal basis to manage the property. That, what would you call it? There could be another modern Vienna on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80249	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I do agree with your exposure but also with your morning replicas completely. And you see this last line of yours when you said you couldn't see anything other than the desire for the government to have an impact on the decision of that center and the employment of its people. However, you see this agenda that is ahead of us, we are going to talk all day about cooperatives, about a law that you yourself said that even a hundred amendments will not improve it. But wouldn't it make sense, my colleague, that we have been discussing in reality for two days the partnership agreement that the Government sent to the European Commission, that is, a draft of this agreement that neither we know anything nor know local communities, nor know young people, nor entrepreneurs, nor craftsmen, nor peasants. The government sent it, that's what silence is about. And I think it would be much better for the government if she'd let us discuss it. And today we're discussing something that really doesn't have a good influence on cooperatives, it's not going to go into the core. And this where we should be as parliamentary representatives, which we should discuss, we don't discuss. We will spend our time and time people and everyone else up to probably summer break on various reports and on the rotten grandmother flax.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80251	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80252	Dear colleagues, we have said several times today what is wrong with this bill. He just won't fix himself. This is a concept that is unacceptable. You can't fix the amendments this concept, it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80253	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80254	... No amendment can be fixed because the objective of amending this law is clear, that the ministry puts its paw over governance. [[Specially enabled.]] However, I would remind you of something else. You said in your speech that we were passing the law, and we have no strategy. We have passed the Strategic Investments Act, we still do not have a Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia. But I'll remind you of something else, what you and we all mention, the urgency of the law-making process. The Constitutional Court last year in January, and we read that report, discussed it and spoke about it, already then warned of the violation of... of parliamentaryism here in the Croatian Parliament, precisely with such adoption of the law by emergency procedure. The fact is that the legislator can pass the law by emergency procedure, but if there is, therefore, reasonable reasons. It is primarily the defence of sovereignty or the prevention of some major disturbances in the economy. Is it to prevent a major disturbance in the economy that this centre is established and that the minister can directly appoint a director? The director wouldn't... if the board of directors already knew at this point, as we knew who was going to be director of DUDI when we shut down AUDI last year. I mean, that's the whole story. There is no possibility of further development until the overall development strategy is developed, both in terms of cooperatives and in terms of the overall economy. That is why we have passed a law with the sole and basic criteria of strategic investment as the amount of funds to be invested, not the development of some local community or not some kind of strategic project. A law of urgency, especially what is passed in this law, has no legitimate reason to be brought by an emergency procedure, and this is seen from the debate of all of us here today in the Parliament that we are talking about clearly, loudly and clearly. There is no valid reason for this law to be adopted by an emergency procedure and cannot be justified. Nor is sovereignty at risk, nor is it a matter of defence, nor is it important to repair a highly damaged economic situation, especially for reasons of lack of strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80255	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80256	Dear colleague, it seems to me that it would be good for this law to remain in the first reading and wait for the adoption of a strategy and then simply consider the strategy and discuss the strategy in this home first, and then pass the law. Without a strategy, this law doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make any sense that we've been changing the law for the third time in three years and we've been doing it all the time. It's like you're constantly stuffing some kind of object, so he doesn't have any form anymore and he doesn't look like anything anymore. So does this law. And unfortunately, the consequences for cooperative will be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80257	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80258	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Ozbolt, listening to your debate, such an impression is this morning in previous discussions that we have been pressured by the times of negative experiences. It seems to me that even when my colleague Kosor, I've been replicating her, this line of yours seems to me, and you've made a major complaint about the State's involvement in these cooperative affairs, and everything needs to be left to the market economy. But you and I both know that things aren't exactly like that, they're not ideal and that exactly the resolute ministries have to go through their measures and encourage and help not only those branches but even concrete firms that get into difficulties. That was the case with the Pre-curricular Deals Act, which was first commended, then attacked. However, we do not live in ideal conditions and simply need everyone’s help today. If we let them go to the market, I don't know how we'd survive, especially in terms of what cooperatives themselves have different areas of activity, so it can be education as a kind of activity, transport, energy. I don't really see why the ministry or the government wouldn't interfere in these matters. I don't see it. You see it as an extremely negative way of doing it, I actually think it's even the duty of the resolution ministries to interfere in such matters because they're of general interest. And of course what's here, of course, if the termology is controversial, it's about the center, someone calls it the agency, it's said that it's exclusively his job to provide professional and other assistance to all the participants in these processes. And look, there have been a lot of cases where people with good ideas, experiences get resources, they have capital, resources, but when they have to start working then they have nothing, they don't have the means for basic marketing, and that's exactly what I see and this center as their self-port, and that doesn't mean that they won't still be able to act as associations. You are wrong because the experiences of European countries show that many have some kind of body related to the government that works in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80259	Time. Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80260	Dear colleague, it seems to me that you're a little bit confused here. Cooperatives are market units. I absolutely wouldn't want as an associate at the Peljesac winery to have my country interfered on any basis if I was doing well. I wouldn't agree with that. And if I don't do well, I'll find a way because there's 20 or 100 of us. Therefore, if I invest more and transfer one part of my assets to a roof organization such as the Croatian Association, then I see that someone there from the Government and the Government appoints me people who will now have that property with her. I'm sorry, I wouldn't agree with that. Now I'm telling you plastics what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80261	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80262	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here in the first row, let me further highlight the potential of cooperatives and cooperatives that I would say has not yet been used enough and promoted in particular. Cooperatives are according to the solutions of our law, which doesn't change now, in fact, the society of persons. However, as regards liability for company operations, the rules relating to classical capital companies apply essentially. Therefore, the members of the cooperative do not correspond to their personal assets for the obligations of the company. It is essentially the same solution as that of a limited liability company and a limited liability company, i.e. this simple limited liability company. In addition, I would say simpler rules to the cooperative than to the mentioned companies. It is much easier to set up a cooperative and later to do business through it if, for example, the purpose of establishing it is simply employment, rather than perhaps a more complicated company. Therefore, cooperatives are an extremely good form of integration, in this case where they often talk about unemployed persons especially in the form of a particular social entrepreneurship advantage that has been particularly stressed lately and the advantages that need to be stressed. The purpose of the establishment of a company is, by definition, the acquisition of profits in the first place while cooperatives may aim and most cooperatives are, but not necessarily. As a general rule, and it does not have to be, the aim of most cooperatives is to achieve, so as to define certain needs of the cooperative's interests by acting and doing business in the cooperative. I would therefore appeal here on behalf of the club and the state bodies, i.e. seduction, agencies, etc. to promote association with cooperatives as a desirable form of solving a number of problems, including unemployment issues. From this proposal of the law of opinion we are in the SDP club is visible and that the promoter has recognized it as well. So here is the roof body so far compared to cooperatives, the Croatian Union of Cooperatives is replacing itself with a public institution that will be called the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship. I'd say even in the name you can see that direction. The cooperative is recognised as a good form for the development of entrepreneurship and the determination of the activities of the centre now is further said I would stress the seriousness to which cooperatives will be approached because it is prescribed that the centre will monitor the situation and work in the area of cooperative society, collect and analyse data and propose measures to improve cooperative society. Therefore, it has been observed that this is an important area with significant potential, and it is understood that there is a need for more systematic monitoring of developments in this area and to propose further measures to improve what we welcome in any case. One of the most important things about improving this law I would say that this centre will now be able to participate better and better in EU funds tenders, because this centre as the holder of these activities will be able to promote projects and apply to projects in which it will be able to achieve up to 85% of EU funds until the solution so far has been possible. I think the solution so far could've only withdrawn about 50%. Furthermore, this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act also aims to facilitate the business of cooperatives through certain financial reliefs which will bring about these amendments and additions. It has already been said that Article 19 provides that funds for the operation of the centre are now provided by income from assets, fees for services, support for donations from other sources. So, no more than mandatory membership fees and we support that solution. It's a fair fair solution whether or not it's there now, which is what they're talking about. If a specific cooperative considers that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship provides adequate added value with its work, the relevant support will support the work of the Centre and cash. So far, membership has functioned as a certain parafiscal undertaking, which has been determined by the will of most members of the Croatian Association of Cooperatives and other members who may not have been satisfied with the quality of work or did not need the support provided by the alliance. They had no choice. We believe in the SDP club that imposing such fees and parafiscal charges in general, therefore not only in this case does not contribute to the quality of work and services of such roof bodies because it is logical to reduce the effort of persons who act on certain functions because they are employed in such roof bodies because they have secured income regardless of the measurable effects of their activities. Therefore, such a solution as these amendments and additions are offered is good and should be supported. The second provision to facilitate and have a positive impact on the operations of cooperatives is the provision of Article 5 amending the existing Article 57(2). Now, therefore, it is prescribed that the profits should be singled out and, in particular, recorded at least 20% for the development of the cooperative. So far, the solution was 30%. This releases additional funds that can also be shown as profits. So, in this way we think we encourage further association in the cooperative and give a certain additional attraction as an appropriate form of achieving an entrepreneurial venture. And in other parts of this law I would say that the current system is being improved in terms of this roof body now of the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship. Article 16 determines that the Cooperative Entrepreneurship Centro is managed by the Director, and, unlike the solution so far, it is prescribed that it can only be a person who has completed his studies and five years of working experience in the profession and a public tender is prescribed. Better integration and better regulation and communication with the relevant ministries will be achieved thanks to this critical fact that the President of the Governing Council and three members will appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Regional Development, regardless of the criticisms addressed from the opposition lines so far, we believe that this is a good solution because these regulatory bodies must propose and take steps to improve the business and working conditions of cooperatives. I can do that, of course, if they're involved. Therefore, it is not the purpose of pawting and laying down rules for the sake of not knowing control, the purpose is to better record the situation, to gain insight into the business of cooperatives that cooperatives need, to improve this communication, to exchange information from cooperatives to bodies that propose laws and measures. And we think that's what this solution does. So I say in the SDP club we believe that promoting cooperative association as a preferred form of addressing the needs of individual interest objectives primarily aimed at entrepreneurship and thus self-employment will be better made possible by this law. We also estimate that it creates a better roof framework to support the activities of cooperatives and improve the situation in this area. Of course, the SDP club supports the draft law amending and supplementing the Cooperative Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80263	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80264	Thank you very much. My colleague Pandek, this is a true panegiric of the state's management of the cooperative alliance, as we would say. So, through the center and the board of directors of the center, which has five members, there are also seven people to pay for their work. You have not in any word explained where these people will be paid, where the money will be paid for the work of the board of directors and the 5-year term of office of directors. Five years is a suggestion, right? So you believe that this centre will do all this what you said about cooperatives in Croatia. And we see from everything you've been running this country for 2.5 years that way, you'll be running cooperatives if that center is established. So as successful as this country has been for the past two years. Furthermore, cooperatives are one form or kind of private business, private interest, private economy. You're defending the thesis that it's good for this private interest to be at the head of the center and in fact an extended hand of the state. Where is your liberal option that Prime Minister Milanovic propagates? And at the end of the day, when I'm being dragged by a tongue, and there's no missus here, for that bum. So, dear God cooperative themes, the center has, and no cooperative. 'Cause it's gonna go away like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80265	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80266	Thank you. There won't be any cooperatives gone, there'll be cooperatives. Maybe the cooperative's gone, part of the cooperatives, the previous solutions from a few years ago when the mandatory number went up from 3 to 7, but that's a different topic. As far as your criticism is concerned, it implies this new job-making solution, I'd say it's not like that at all. So far, there has been a leading man of this roof association, so nothing has changed, and the people who come from the ministry are employed in the ministries and therefore does not imply that new people will be hired there. I think you're aware of that. Furthermore, what I said did not disprove my thesis that it is necessary for people from the ministry to come to a better relationship between this Alliance of Cooperatives and people who propose legislation and solutions to improve and facilitate the business of cooperatives. Well, they're not going to impose and master cooperatives now. Cooperatives remain legal persons of their own free who can do whatever they want. No one's gonna tell them you've got to do it and that. We're not in some kind of North Korea system where they're going to be given some kind of mandatory guidance, instructions and orders. The centre is right there to help them in their business, to establish better communication between competent ministries that regulate the problem that is close to these cooperatives and to facilitate their business. To record the situation right now and continue to develop and facilitate their business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80267	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke about all the benefits of this law, so you pointed out that this centre, which is established for the purpose of harmonising and representing the interests of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other natural legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives, will participate in the monitoring, promotion and development of cooperatives as a whole. And you forgot there are no associates in that law anywhere. They can join as cooperatives and have nothing to do with it. Neither the selection of the Governing Council, nor the expert groups, is anywhere, have even forgotten to comply with the Law on Institutions where an expert head and expert council are foreseen. And the creation and preparation of this law also did not allow cooperatives who were elected representatives of cooperatives and were to sit in groups to make these amendments to the law. But out of the alliance, officials sat down and passed this law. That's why it looks like it. So there's no underlying condition that tells us that cooperatives and representatives of cooperatives are in the bodies of this center, and they'll take care of them. I think we're talking about something that absolutely does not stand in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80269	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80270	Thank you. I understand a little bit of truth from God, but when you talk about the management of cooperatives, if I understand these amendments and the additions to the laws do not regulate, you do not change existing solutions regarding the management of a particular cooperative. And as far as this centre is concerned, we were not satisfied and there were certain shortcomings in work, and this is exactly what we find to change it for the better, that communication will improve because the purpose of this is to improve the conditions in which cooperatives operate. Now that the representatives of the ministry will be there directly and directly communicate with, therefore, Croatian cooperatives, that communication will be much better. Surely the solution so far to be good, not to be changed, communication was not good, things in this roof were not good so far and should wait. We believe that this will improve this communication and improve the conditions in which cooperatives work and operate and that this better communication will also contribute to better conditions in which cooperatives can work and achieve the interests of their cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80271	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed, too, my colleague Pandek, these allegations that my predecessors spoke of, but what made me especially, was stuck in my ear where you talked about the great possibilities of using and attracting funds from European funds, if I understood correctly. Well, I'm the first one in any case and those who are potential users, believe that there's a lot of interest, but there's a problem that there's opportunities, we talked here in this House of High House about those direct payments of rural development. According to all the indicators, the rural development measures will be nothing from those programmes by the end of the year. And it's confirmed unfortunately that she's the thesis that it's like... you know, as... as far as those are concerned. It's a bit of a retreat, they're not well-prepared, things aren't done, and the possibilities are small, so far, at least mostly in this part of which we're talking about farmers, cooperatives where there'd be a big space, and it's mostly about cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, and in that part, they're not that big of an opportunity, unfortunately. I'm sad about it, but I'm sure it doesn't stand for what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80273	Thank you, too. My colleague Pandek's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80274	Thank you. So I would say that Croatia is basically a net recipient of funds so far, so things aren't as black as you want to present and be optimistic. It is clear that every country, therefore, when it enters the EU, could not achieve a significant inflow of funds because clearly, programmes should be prepared and some time should be allowed to elapse. But regardless, Croatia is still a net recipient of funds. And it is also these amendments and additions to the law that are one of the tools that we will improve even better, so the conditions for Croatia to receive more funds from EU funds and here we will see this necessary, necessary, better and more content communication between the ministry and cooperatives to make this centre a particular tool for us to get more funds from EU funds. The centre will trust to give certain instructions and advice to cooperatives on how to apply and attract more funds, so it will be possible to include and develop programmes that will apply to attract funds from EU funds. So, contrary to what you're saying, I think this is a good step towards attracting more funds from the EU funds, and I believe it will eventually be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80275	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80276	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that there are many open issues related to this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperatives, and first and foremost, I would like to point out one of my concerns that the Government does not know what to do with cooperatives and whether cooperatives are at all important or not seen in cooperatives a useful tool for a different form of economic development in Croatia. I can agree with predecessors who said that it was necessary first to adopt a strategy for the development of cooperative society, and only then to go to law-making and, in my opinion, after the strategy for the development of cooperatives is adopted, it will be necessary to pass a whole new law. Unfortunately, wandering with cooperatives is not just a practice of these governments, nor did the previous HDZ government know what to do with cooperatives, so the cooperatives, my impression, came to terms with the principle of blocked nose because the cooperatives reminded them of socialism. In this sense, I was still not surprised at the sudden enthusiasm of MPs and representatives of HDZ for cooperatives and cooperatives, and I am somewhat surprised that none of them, regardless of the fact that I was not in the assembly all the time, listened to everything spoken under this bill, but did not see one extremely important fact, which is that this centre, or Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, will go in a direction that is not in fact in line with European trends, but rather in one other direction, which is the direction that was present in the former Soviet Union, or... cooperatives, which in my opinion is not the best approach. Co-operation is a trend in the EU, the Cooperatives Europe Association is gathering and representing 160 thousand cooperatives from all over Europe. It is impressive that European cooperatives employ 5.4 million people, with 123 million members. This association that I mention is an active member of the Social Economy Group of the European Parliament and it is undeniable that cooperatives have huge potential to develop and strengthen the European economy. And for that reason, I will present to you this occasion a set of proposals for a cooperative Europe in terms of strengthening cooperation. The goal of strengthening cooperatives is in fact to focus on a real economy that meets the needs and aspirations of people and not the financial market. It is a different, resilient and innovative economy in which different business models can be successful. And that's one framework that supports new entrepreneurial ventures that are facing people. First to humans and then to capital. In order to achieve this, we must create a quality legislative framework that allows different forms of business equal opportunities for development and success. Unfortunately, legislation makes it difficult for cooperatives to attract capital, making it difficult for cooperatives to start and manage them. The rules of the game simply must be the same for everyone and the law must develop those measures that will motivate, encourage and facilitate the launch, management and growth of cooperatives and cooperatives must have the same opportunity as other forms of entrepreneurship. And so I ask the competent ministry is it so in Croatia at this time and is it going that way to motivate and encourage cooperatives in some way? Co-operation is a huge potential for employment primarily of young people because many young people are very interested in socially responsible business, so it is necessary for young people to be educated and informed about cooperation. In fact, at schools and universities, and also at a private university where I have been teaching for a number of years entrepreneurship education is aimed exclusively at traditional business models and cooperatives are hardly even spoken of at all. And this approach, meaning access through the education of those layers that should actually be the bearer of one cooperative model is extremely important. And if we want to develop in a long-term sense, the cooperative must pay a lot of attention to this. The State should also provide a form or guidelines for cooperatives. And that, this form or guidelines for cooperatives would serve as support and an institutional framework for the launch and development of cooperative start-ups. During this debate, there was also an enormous amount of talk on defence cooperatives, a little less talk about agricultural cooperatives, but very little about other cooperatives, other forms of cooperativeism. And these forms of cooperativery are today extremely present and current in Europe. And they're for example. Energy cooperatives which today are a very large number, especially in some countries, highly developed countries of Europe. Then, we also have financial cooperatives that were also not very much talked about here and connecting these cooperatives with so-called. Ethics banks that try to transfer or implement certain ideas present in the cooperative sector. There are also activities so-called activities. Social or social entrepreneurship and other forms of co-operation which largely assist cooperatives in their survival in a very turbulent market. In fact, we have to keep in mind a global context and we have, we have to be aware that we live in an extremely globalised society and that globalisation is basically grinding everything in front of us. Globalisation implies an ever-increasing influence of multinational companies that are now far stronger than many countries in their financial strength. In any case, many multinational companies are stronger than Croatia and therefore Croatia as a small country with a pretty low economy in the extremely high interest of strengthening the impact of its own domestic economy through the development of cooperatives. This is possible only through a strategic approach and a whole series of very concrete measures that the state will clearly say that cooperatives are extremely important to us and not in a declarative way but very concretely through various measures, through tax relief, through other stimulating measures for production cooperatives, especially in those sectors where the self-sufficiency of society and the state is best seen as a whole, and these are in the first place the energy and agricultural sectors. Well, here it is, I hope that this debate of mine will be of benefit to you too in creating this strategy for the development of cooperativeism in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80277	We're moving on to replicas. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80278	Thank you very much. Well, you've noticed, colleague Holly, that there should have been more in this law of those European standards and norms that we've talked about and suggested, that they've fallen behind. That such a party centralisation that has been done by this law in order to provide for a certain number of personnel cannot certainly be accepted. It is clear and visible that this is the role of cooperatives and cooperatives in Europe. So agriculture is represented in 83% in the cooperative system in the Netherlands, 79% in Finland, 55% in Italy, 50% in France. Foresting, through association 60% in Switzerland, 31% in Finland. Bank sector 50% in France, 37% in Cyprus, 35% in Finland, 31% in Austria and 21% in Germany. Trade, retail, consumer cooperatives, pharmaceutical industry is all that is done through cooperatives in the countries of the European Union where we are today. We have just said that it is necessary and necessary to comply with this law of European standards and norms and thus open space, to encourage cooperatives just as it is encouraged defence cooperatives with 150 thousand support houses when they are established and then another 50 thousand if they operate positively in the first year. These are concrete measures and incentives that have been and have contributed to the development of cooperatives, which have contributed to the success of these cooperatives and then to the clumsy laws of 2013 which have been extinguished by cooperatives. 250 thousand, 250 defense cooperatives are shut down because they can't be managers anymore or because cooperatives can't be at the Bureau anymore, if the members of the cooperative can't be on the Bureau anymore and can't exercise their rights with the Bureau. Of course, they refused to pass their property on to anyone else, wanted to manage or shut down cooperatives. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80279	Thank you. Answer. My colleagues, Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80280	I'm afraid my colleague Djakic did not understand me very well. The State, of course, must have an impact on cooperatives in terms of some kind of strategic commitment. However, we must not act on cooperatives through clientelistic approach at all, and then set out a certain type of cooperative that we will in particular promote. I think that the state should give some guidance on which sectors are extremely important to it, whether it is defence cooperatives or other types of cooperatives, there must be no discrimination against whether they are defence cooperatives or others. But the fact is that Croatia should go towards self-sustainability and self-sufficiency in the area of agriculture and the accompanying industries and sectors, as well as in energy. And that is why it is extremely important to adopt a cooperative strategy because I think it can be a good instrument in the fight against globalisation. And we with such a small and weak economy will soon have absolutely no chance if we don't know how to organize ourselves so that those small producers are strengthened through this type of cooperative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80281	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Holly, you take every opportunity to sort of tell us on this side of the assembly that we're out of date, conservative, and that we're back in history. And you're here as modern, so you're not coming back, but we want to say what we know. I know from my midst with how many people, and I remember for a long time, and how much they talk negative emotions against cooperatives at certain times when they grind ceilings, etc. But let's let it go now. I want to remind you that, you speak we now advocate with enthusiasm great for cooperatives, etc., so we are now a member of the great European family. So if they have accepted these cooperatives in Europe in this way to do so many jobs and to accomplish so much in this economic life of these countries, then why shouldn't we? And there's of course interest and we're testifying from the field, and here I'm talking about the agricultural area where there's very great interest in this cooperative, and we advocate it, we're, of course, defending it, and I think it's a good thing, that it can contribute to the recovery of agriculture that is on its knees and, in that part, it's certain that the cooperative has its place, but of course it's easier for it to relax and that it can simply function and work on the foundations to achieve these results as it is here. But I'm glad to see that you've evolved and that you're also talking about your part, that you're standing up for entrepreneurship and young people that I've heard and I'm holding in that part. I believe you didn't think and thought it would be manufacturing and packing hemp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80283	Thank you. Well, industrial hemp is trendy. Here you go, fellow Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80284	So if you were to inform him a little bit better then you'd see that industrial hemp and hemp are generally a very high trend and that the United States is having its own revision at the moment, the position is likely to change and the UN Convention on this issue. And of course there is a very great opportunity for cooperatives, that is, cooperatives in this particular activity. How nice of you to mention the industrial hemp. Since it is a culture that connects a whole range of different sectors, so not only the agricultural sector but also the automotive industry as much as possible because they produce bodywork from industrial hemp, food industry, then paper industry, textile industry, construction industry, pharmaceutical industry, not to list a whole series of different industries. And I can say that it's very sad that we as a state that has an extremely great potential for the development of this culture, we don't liberalize that culture, but here I hope that this attitude will change over time. So, I don't think you should go back to the past about this and I don't like to admit your position on the area of cooperatives related to defence cooperatives, because defence cooperatives should have the same status as all other cooperatives in Croatia, and the state should show its clear commitment to develop this type of activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80285	Thank you. And the last replica of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80286	Thank you. My colleagues, Holly, I like your thesis that you've presented in this debate right now, and especially one thesis where you said that cooperatives should be turned to people. So, of course they should be turned to people. My uncle used to be a cattleman, he had, he fed the bulls, and it was his only way to feed them into a certain category, a cooperative came in, loaded it up, garnered it, paid it off the same day. And so the man built two houses. It's a cooperative, a farm house worked for us. The second dimension, the cooperative had 57 hectares of co-operation, on these 57 hectares worked 30 employees and porters, and auto mechanics, and accountants, and it was the backbone of the development of that small environment. In 97, three of them bought it that were never even cooperatives, sold out, and they didn't answer. So, where are we with this cooperative? With that concept, no matter what time it was, but I have the impression that we're wandering and we're far from the results of that collaboration from that time. I think this concept, or the proposed centre as we have said, will not question the existence of cooperatives or cooperative alliances or cooperatives. The existence will question the market. So there is no market we lost the market in our country and while monopolies can import cheap food from Romania, cheap apples from China or carrots from the Czech Republic until then this cooperative has no existence, so they have no perspective. And we can make rules and solutions whatever we want as long as it doesn't work out the real market as it worked sometimes won't be any of our cooperatives. And I don't think this concept is underestimating, and this center should normally, by my seeing things, be a small cooperative ministry so as to be in the role of these cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80287	Thank you. Answer, colleague Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80288	Well, I agree with you in part. I believe that the state should define a strategy for the development of cooperative society and set up such a framework that will allow this type of entrepreneurship to develop freely. And I think that we should use good experience in the past as well as good experience from the present in other countries that shows up in practice. So I think that there is a very great potential to strengthen the economy in this sense, especially in view of what you have pointed out earlier, and this is a subjection to different import lobbys, which brings the same with a trend, in fact, with a trend of globalisation, and I really think that these small producers, their association, the rounding through cooperatives, can still have one positive power to address these very negative trends brought about by globalisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80289	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80290	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Deputy with an associate. A lot has already been said today about the proposal to amend the Law on Cooperatives. I would try to make my contribution to this debate through the sphere of work and employment. According to Article 55 of the Croatian Constitution, everyone has the right to work and freedom of work, each of them freely chooses to call and hire, and every person under equal conditions is made available to every job and duty. It means that no one can defend anyone to work but... and says that everyone himself has to choose a calling, find a job, or a job. In my deep conviction, self-employment is the most positive way of hiring. Self - employment gives each individual a sense of independence above all a sense of self - awareness and freedom. Self-employment makes us proud and dignified. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The constitution says that every employee has the right to earn money that can guarantee their own and their families a free and decent life. Longest working hours are determined by law, each employee has the right to a week's vacation, paid vacation and these rights cannot be waived and the last item spoken by employees may comply with the company's decision-making law. This is where I believe we come to a very interesting form of participation of workers in decision-making to so-called. workers' participations. All modern modern and advanced companies and companies, however small or large, increasingly involve their workers in management and ownership structures. By entering corporate management mechanisms, workers feel collectively but also personal responsibility for their company, and this often results in a higher or lower percentage of labour participation. Some companies have a precise percentage of the share left to workers. This leads to increased company workers' interest and is identified by the company they work in, thus increasing productivity and more systematic development, as well as by such companies. In the paper is an unusually important sense of success, success is always measured in every work, and it must be evaluated, and in many collectives and degrees. This also leads to increased identification with the company and as already said to increase productivity but to unusually important satisfaction with its work. Individuals and smaller groups doing their own work also want to know how good they are, whether they are making progress with their work, want to measure and compare with others. For them is one of the possible but very practical forms of association of cooperatives. And as the proposal to amend and supplement the Cooperative Act states, the aim is not only to gain profits but also to achieve the well-being and benefits of members of the cooperative and the local community in which the cooperative operates. Cooperatives have multiple positive effects, gather individuals and groups that link the common interest, enable and facilitate the inclusion of different operators in the market economy, provide their members with certain advantages as, due to the greater volume of business production through cooperatives, they achieve significant savings. Cooperatives are also a road for self-employment and employment, which is particularly important for economically underdeveloped areas where the use of local resources can be directed towards sustainable economic development of the local community through cooperatives. It is still said that the law wants to create a more quality, more effective institutional framework for promotion and support for the development of cooperative entrepreneurship through the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship as the legal successor of the Croatian Union of Cooperatives. The Centre is a public institution that, without mandatory membership, coordinates and represents the interests of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other natural and legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives and participate in monitoring the promotion and development of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the law will remove the shortcomings identified in the application of the legislation so far and create an incentive framework to strengthen the competitiveness of cooperatives, as well as to strengthen the positive impact of cooperatives on rural development, the development of local communities and the economy and society as a whole. Croatian cooperatives have a 150-year tradition. Today, there are nearly 1200 cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia with about 20,000 cooperative members and about 3000 employees in them, but there are still insufficiently exploited potentials that we are all talking about here today. The law establishing a European cooperative that Croatia has assumed as part of the acquis shall apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. But work and work ensure economic prosperity is a fundamental aspect of human security and freedom. people who don't have the ability to work on welfare or have no chance at all. The right to work as a standard of human rights goes far beyond mere survival because meeting basic needs is not enough to increase human security, human freedoms. Workers' rights ensure decent working conditions, but protect against discrimination and exploitation at the workplace. This is primarily resolved by the Labour Act, but also by the employer's contract. Work must not only ensure survival and... but also be linked to the relationship and participation of man in society. Furthermore, work is closely related to self-determination, self-respect, self-fulfilment, and thus to human dignity. Dangerous, unhealthy or unfair working conditions, unemployment, except that they lead to personal uncertainty and individual freedom also cause unrest and thus creates uncertainty and instability in society. For these reasons, promoting standards of decent work, without exploitation, is a prerequisite for increasing human security and ultimately human freedoms. There cannot be a modern, secure, courteous and happy state where work is not appreciated, where social justice through work is not achieved because of the crisis of management, the crisis of banking systems, the crisis of labour and labour self-management, the crisis of morality in society... the work and the great dissatisfaction of workers. The new important modern way of doing business is so called. social or social entrepreneurship. The roots of social and social entrepreneurship are, in fact, cooperative. Social entrepreneurship as a concept that integrates the creation of economic and social values is present in theory and practice for almost a century and at global level, although it is questionable that translation from English, Social... as social entrepreneurship is adequate. It is also considered to be more direct social entrepreneurship. The concept itself a few decades ago was defined in England, Bill Reton, who was also responsible for establishing the first organization with the aim of promoting the concept of Innovator for the public. Dayton views social entrepreneurship or social entrepreneurship as an entrepreneurship with ethical integrity in order to maximise social values, not private values or profits. There are several different views on the definition of social and social entrepreneurship. It's de facto another way of doing things and hiring. It represents the use of entrepreneurial behavior more for social, not so many profit goals. In other words, generated profits are used to benefit certain oppressed social groups. Social entrepreneurship is a means of solving social problems and catalyzing the transformation of societies as a whole. Entrepreneurship itself is a special economic function, other than ownership and management or perhaps even better stated a set of more interlinked functions aimed at launching new business initiatives aimed at expectations above average revenues. This actually means that entrepreneurship differs significantly from professional management of routine economic activities in relatively stable operating conditions. Entrepreneurship is always a higher degree of ability to spot and participate in an extraordinary opportunity for possible business success and entrepreneurial determination to enter into action and when the entrepreneurial risk is extremely high. And here we also come to a small entrepreneurship which unfortunately is too little to talk about, and I think is one of the most important forms of entrepreneurship that can push a small country like Croatia forward. And another topic that should be discussed stronger and wider is paying for the impact of the work. I think such a way of thinking and such a way of paying could contribute anywhere in cooperatives or any other entrepreneurship better and efficient entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80291	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80292	Thank you very much. My friend, you were talking, here's the last sentence, about paying, about efficiency. When we talk about defense cooperatives, even though you haven't spoken, I have to say that they are in some way therapeutic because you yourself know that about 2,000 defenders have raised their hands on themselves, so they have committed suicide, and a good number has tried. Therefore, these cooperatives are also therapeutic. So it's not all about efficiency. Although some here seem more concerned about the availability of dog food than about defenders, we're not going to talk about it. 60 cooperatives are from agricultural activity, but this globalisation which is actually a substitute or synonym for neocolonalism is actually a problem that all Croatian governments have succumbed to this trend. And then we have an import that prevents any cooperative in agriculture from being successful. There's very few of them. The carrot is imported from Spain and Egypt, apples from Slovenia, dried plums from Germany, dried figs from Germany, fish cans from Nis. We have on shelves from Nis fish cans, soy from Argentina, pasta from Italy, beer from all the countries that exist around us and beyond. Children's toys, fabrics, shoes, clothes from China like all this, potatoes from Egypt from the Nile Valley, pods from Morocco. Look at the shelves of our garlic shops from China, the white one, the plastic one, I don't even know what he's like. Salt from the Maghreb countries, water from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo. On islands where there is no water, you have bottles of 6.7 liters. It says "Vitinka" and so on. I'm not going to advertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80293	Thank you. We have a colleague Blazekovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80294	I have to admit, I haven't fully understood the replica, and as far as imports are concerned, I don't think we're in this globalized world able to limit any imports of anything at all, except weapons, and that simply depends on supply and demand. Do Croatian citizens want to buy you said the pods from Morocco or want to buy pods from Ravni Kotar. But it's the customer stuff, not on the side of the country, and I don't know, I really don't know what that has to do with all this debate. In my debate, I only tried to look back through cooperatives that I think are very important, but it is neglected, unfortunately neglected by Croatia's independence neglected in Croatia, that this is a very positive way of employment. But that there are other similar forms of employment, self-employment which unfortunately we do not talk about enough, and which could perhaps in one group or more groups of citizens or individuals encourage the desire to organise or organise or self-organize or only employ, which in any case would make it clear to them that many happy individuals make one happy society and thus a successful state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80295	Thank you. Gold shower, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80296	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Blazekovic, when I listened to you first, I thought I should rephrase it at all, but then I made up my mind because your discussion was quite fairytale. You talked about constitutional rights of workers, you talked about working stock, you talked about working participation, and I practically thought that we live somewhere in another country not in that country where there are 340 thousand unemployed, somewhere half the long-term unemployed who simply can't get to work, that somewhere 90000 was deleted from the employment records of the Employment Service last year by the various basics and provisions that are, and a large part of those deleted were members of the cooperative because such a regulation was passed that regardless of whether a member of the cooperative or not had achieved any gain or had no gain he could no longer be on the record of the Employment Office. And the essence of this whole story is that we are very far from these beautiful solutions and the beautiful perspectives that you have given us, because somewhere 50% of the cooperatives have been shut down, and primarily when we talk about importing food that is large not only commercial chains, that part of the imported food is because there are citizens of Croatia who can choose which goods they want, but also because the placement of our goods through the shops and houses is certainly not charged by cooperatives if they also place their share of the goods very hard to get their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80297	Thank you. Answer, colleague Blazekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to repeat why I think it's important that my debate is only because, in your opinion, I thank you in a fairy tale, mentioning some other forms and important forms of relationship against work and employment. I think that these topics are very important, and too little is said about these topics in the public and in the Parliament, and all these forms of labour participation, from self-employment, from cooperative employment, from social and social entrepreneurship, are all of these forms that are opening up to all of us, which is opening up to all of us in front of the citizens of Croatia and needs to be maximumly enlightened from both positive and from the real real side, in any case realistically, illuminated to maybe encourage a group of people, one man, a group of citizens or more of them or more entrepreneurs to all together improve employment, to improve the economy and social employment and the culture of social employment and the culture of employment and work in Croatia so that we can all be happier individuals together. Many happy individuals make a happy and successful country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80299	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Tomislav Jagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80300	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'm going to try to do in this brief debate to touch a few principles or key things that make me think this bill should be supported. We can all agree on that, it is often said here that cooperatives represent a significant potential that needs to be realised in such a way that either through existing cooperatives that are unfortunately less or through cooperatives that will be established in the future, first and foremost, to enable them to enter the market. This key word is the market and the particular takeover of those new markets on which cooperatives can place their products. On the other hand, cooperatives can greatly help when we talk geographically about rural development or sectoral activities where they can be a significant generator often times new activities. In particular, the integration of agriculture and the small economy with safe markets can be mentioned. That's what you often talk about, and it's not an easy goal. The Alliance of Cooperatives is a huge alliance and brings together various cooperatives. What marks this alliance are different interests and although we have, it is often said here, a 150-year tradition in cooperative society, often with us cooperatives bonding with negative connotations. And this is mentioned here in the debate of socialism when there have been certain abuses of cooperatives and people often take a negative view. However, why is the Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, although it is disputed and attacked here as a direct interference of the government, why does it make any sense? First of all, I will mention here again what is stated in the reasoning of the law as the key role of the centre is to provide professional and other assistance. In her debate, colleague Holly touched on a very important topic, which is energy cooperatives. The truth in Croatia has a small number, here they are listed in the material we have. In the future, however, more and more such cooperatives will simply and by force of urgency have to change, as it plans to invest 27 billion euros in the construction of 60 pump-accumulation plants in Europe alone in the next few years alone. We have an interesting SOCRAT project that is planned on the Straight East because when we talk about renewable energy sources, then nature has made sure that the biggest energy inputs are actually in the system when energy is spent the least. In this sense, it is necessary to store and therefore such projects of reversible power plants are very important, and such projects and, in my opinion, energy cooperatives are not possible without support, especially in this country, and I think this can be achieved through the Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship. Cooperatives can therefore also be regionally, we have an example of maintenance and local self-government in certain projects. So they can also be used as regional drivers, and can, of course, be used according to certain sectoral activities. What is especially to welcome is not negligible, so 5.7 million kuna plans to leave to cooperatives by reducing this amount from 30% to 20% of reinvested profits. And what's kind of relativized here, and it's about abolishing mandatory membership, and someone here is trying to put it in 55 kuna frames, but given the large number of parafiscal duties, I think every solution in that direction should be welcomed because often part by part of these duties, if it is released, remains more for the activity itself. What is also highlighted in this proposal is that over the last 9 years, the 10.8 million kuna from the state budget is focused on financing the work of the alliance. So to conclude, in this bill there are those elements that can certainly play a key role in the very functioning of the cooperatives themselves and in the creation of new ones, but certainly that if they are viewed negatively in the beginning then their positive effect is not seen. I personally think it will achieve what is written by law, that there will be support and encouragement for cooperatives and cooperatives to do better and more effectively in a difficult competition. So to raise the level of their competitiveness. In this respect, this legislative proposal should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80301	Thank you. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80302	Thank you very much. A brief replica, namely what do you mean by a fellow esteemed representative that the center will open new cooperatives? How do you think he's gonna open up a new cooperative center? So he can't get people to do what? How do you think the center will open new cooperatives except for those that already exist? Well, that's fine, let's just support the ones that, but how they're going to open new cooperatives, that's not clear to me at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80303	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80304	Dear counterpart Grubisic probably misrepresented himself. The centre will not open new cooperatives but will certainly support the opening, meaning that all those who decide to open cooperatives have certain assistance and support either legally or in any other sense in those objectives set by the centre for themselves. So, I probably got it wrong. Here's my apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80305	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here comes the time in our debate that we've spent on this worthless law that brings nothing good. This law, which really is the pamphlet of a party and of a minister, a minister of ignorance who doesn't have a day's work experience, let alone to know something about cooperativery, craftsmanship or entrepreneurship. A pamphlet that violates the 150-year tradition of co-operation in the Republic of Croatia. A pamphlet with everything but no incentive for cooperatives. A pamphlet that only says two positive things that could be distinguished through this debate, which is that membership will be abolished which has not been paid for two years and amounts to 55 kuna for cooperatives and that it is no longer a member of the cooperative necessarily in the alliance as it has been until now, that it will not be mandatory in this centre. It means that through everything we've been able to see it clearly wants to rule out the cooperatives that they decide, to manage, to have their own alliance in which they will be full members, to propose measures, strategies and work. The alliance is shut down like that, and there will be no more. In any segment, there is no possibility that cooperatives will be the ones to influence the administrative council, to select the directors of that centre, to decide which will go towards the development of cooperatives, to the stimulating measures of cooperatives, in any way to exclude any idea that cooperatives would be the ones who could contribute something and know something. The minister probably appreciates by himself, I have no idea about anything, so even these cooperatives don't know anything, what they're going to do at that cooperative center that they can do at all. So this tradition of co-operation in Croatia exists thanks to the cooperative principles and values that Croatian cooperatives have developed through their long-term existence and operation. In the light of this amendment, the Proposer states that the principles are not regulations but the heritage of cooperatives, and that is absolutely not true because they are cooperative principles and values, as stated in the Law on Cooperatives. So they are a regulation that cooperatives are obliged to adhere to. The question arises whether or not the applicant degrades the Croatian heritage that enables the sustainability of the cooperative in Croatia, despite the real and major problems that the cooperative is dealing with and how will regulate respect for the principles and values of cooperative society? Unless there is a possibility of legal protection of the foundations of cooperative society. The fact that cooperative principles and values are set out in the Cooperative Act should not be ignored. So they are a regulation that cooperatives are obliged to adhere to. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the follow-up to the Law on Cooperatives in Amendments and Supplements, the shavement of point 5(1) of Article 43 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. Cooperative Act, Article 43. The Cooperatives Act in paragraph 1 lays down the reasons for the termination of the cooperative. And point 5 reads: "Probation contrary to this law and to other regulations and to cooperative principles or values, erasure and provision creates great legal uncertainty." Namely, if the violation of the law in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular of cooperative principles and values do not constitute a reason for the termination of the cooperative, the question of what and what legal order of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts in the Republic of Croatia is being sought? What if the law is broken in a way that is not provided for by this law but is provided for by other laws or sublaws or by the Constitution, does this mean that the law is not broken? How do you legalize such a situation? The proposer did not offer the purpose or purpose of this amendment, but was reviewing the text of the amendment, copying the text of the amendment which cannot be considered an explanation at all. Such a practice shall also be observed by the applicant in the reasons for the other articles. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on Cooperatives is being established by the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship as a successor to the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives, however, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts has made extremely many mistakes in that part. Namely, such changes separate the center from its core. cooperative. And as such, it makes him an absolutely missed and unnecessary facility. The Centre shall have the status of a public institution to which the Law on Institutions is subcontracted. A Law on Institutions in Article 1(2) defines the reasons for the establishment of an institution. Article 6 requires the establishment of a public institution and the following Article provides for the establishment of a public institution. This is important because it indicates that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship is established by the Republic of Croatia by this law, and it is also known that Article 57 is also prescribed. The law on institutions that the funds for work provided by the founders of the institution constitute the property of the institution. These comments point primarily to the non-compliance of amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act with the provisions of the Law on Institutions, since the founder is not mentioned in the amended Article 55 as the source of funds for the operation and operation of the Centre, although the Republic of Croatia will finance the centre. It is therefore necessary to draw attention to the misjudgement of the applicant or to knowingly deluding that additional financial resources in the state budget are not necessary for the implementation of this law. And so other dangers arise. According to the Law on Institutions, the founder of the institution may decide to use the institution's profits to develop and carry out the activities of another institution to which it is the founder. In accordance with Article 57(3), an institution may not acquire, burden or alienate property without the consent of its founder. In accordance with Article 58, the institution shall be responsible for the obligations of all of its assets while the founder is only in full and without limit responsible for its obligations under Article 59. This inconsistency of the two regulations indicates the minister's intention to control the cooperatives absolutely through the centre, i.e. that a minister through a cooperative centre creates an area of his absolute domination. Cooperatives lose any influence on the work of the centre that should take care of their interests. Namely, the authorities of the centre are the Director, the Administrative Council, other bodies may be formed but they shall be established by the Statute. Therefore, there is no guarantee that cooperatives and cooperatives in any way will be able to influence the decisions taken at the centre, nor will they participate in the creation of policies concerning cooperatives. Here, through this all like a series of things that are not harmonised, which are contradictory, which are absolutely not for the benefit of cooperatives and cooperatives, and erasing certain provisions that speak of values and heritage absolutely devastates something that has worked so far, there is no benefit, there is no room for new political personnel to be caught, there is simply no European standards, there is no concern, there is no incentive, there is no incentive for cooperatives. This is about erasing and erasing cooperatives and cooperatives, not how they will improve and help their work, encourage their work. We have heard how busy people are across the EU through cooperatives in which all sectors and in which all activities are and we understand that there are wonderful models in the EU that we are members of how they work and how cooperatives work. Therefore, it was better to rewrite any European law and put it into office of the Croatian State, so that it would certainly contribute to further progress, employment, labour and by the power of small entrepreneurs, i.e. small producers who would be competitive in the European market in cooperatives who could sell their products as such and large trade chains to ensure that they buy from them. All this together is usually a dead letter on paper that won't do any good to cooperatives and cooperatives, and therefore such a law is an unprecedented failure which is another one of those brought by this government and ministers who don't know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80307	Thank you. My colleague Djakic has been injured by Rules of Procedure of Article 238, for this reason I give you a warning. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have two replicas, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, I like to believe that in Parliament, the best weapons are arguments. Personal qualifications for which you are told a reminder is something which at the very least does not fit this House and I am not talking about any more argumentative team when they are also an untrue fellow. And I could say a lot of things about you personally and about many of your colleagues, but I'm just not going down to that level because we're all colleagues here who have the legitimacy of the voters who chose us. So that level I think this side of the assembly never and never came down on it. Another thing that looked like the alliance of these cooperatives, and you yourself talked about how it didn't work that the ministry didn't take action because it works, etc., and you defend it as some heritage. No one prevents cooperatives from joining together, from articulating their policies, their opinions and, besides, dear colleagues, as far as I know, politics do not create public institutions, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, indirectly, this Parliament through the legal regulations it brings. So the cooperatives have their own ministry to address, should address all their problems. For example, you have a Croatian Association of Employers who organized themselves, is a voluntary membership and are highly vocal in articulating attitudes and problems that plague the layer of society that they represent or represent. And secondly, you were talking about the cooperative model so I'd like to hear what models in Europe are working, but I've only heard criticism but I haven't heard your suggestion to fix it exactly. So once again when you talk about cheating the law, the easiest thing to do is to rewrite the law, but the prescribed law is not always applicable to Croatian opportunities. We have God's mind that we can create our own laws that can function in our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80309	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I'd like to thank you for the warning that I'm about to justify safely given that I've told the truth. And I will repeat to my colleague Hajdukovic, that a minister who does not have a day of employment in a sector that leads neither craftsmanship nor cooperatives has any knowledge or knowledge to write laws that will benefit the cooperatives. Well this is clearly manifested through all segments of events in the Republic of Croatia by the fall of GDP, unemployment, the shut down of cooperatives, the shut down of crafts, the shut down of companies for all that your ministers are responsible for, of course, are capable of developing safely, so that's the logic of things. I don't know what you're dealing with, and you and Vice President of the Parliament are saying that Mr. Secretary worked somewhere before he came to the Parliament. It's not what we're talking about. He worked in the Parliament, or he worked in the workplace. This law I said that the political pamphlet was wrong or right to you. No matter who's wrong or right, that's what several colleagues who were your associates told you before they looked more like Russian law, not EU democratic law. If you're thinking of going back to those old times with laws like that, we better not work. We don't have to waste all day in a debate that doesn't bring any fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80311	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Djakic, we are really tired here today in a day-long debate about something that is over and so to speak irrelevant. The debate is being held only and exclusively about the Center for Co-operation and nothing else, nothing else has changed, there is no change. This topic seems to be imposed in order not to deal with much more important topics that start with those recommendations from the European Commission in 10 points that are very important for Croatia, starting with the question of where the waters are from, say, Stroshinci. Because Serbia released water at the Jamena in Croatia in Strošinca, there is a flood. The scavengers were not flooded by Gunja and Rajev Sela. So how to make 250 000 state and public officials, the ten kunas per 6 months, 250 000 that's 2.5 million a month, over 6 months it's 150 million to fix and to be on the word of Mr Milanovic that Croatia will do it on its own. They will, people will. And how we have not received the assistance of the European Union, and Serbia has not yet completed its flood by a billion kuna. That's what we need to discuss. These are the things that matter to Croatia. And here we are getting tired here and Mr. Maras etc., although if we're talking about it, he promised me the destruction of Đura Djakovic because he vetoed 150 million HBOR loans even though the FGS gave a positive opinion on HBOR loan to Đuri Djakovic. He said no, we're not gonna put money in a hollow bag. The metal processing industry and its synonym Đuro Đakovic, a synonym for Slavonski Brod, failes, goes bankrupt without the HBOR loan. It's the work of your minister you described.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80313	Reply from fellow Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boro, it's clear that all the indicators are saying that this is nothing and that we're wasting our time just for crap. This is no law. This is a total failure. This is a failure like these two years behind us. With 3,000 cooperatives, we now have 1300. Employment in these cooperatives and you see for yourself what it is, 2734. What we should have discussed today, we should have discussed the European model of cooperative society and the Social Entrepreneurship Development Strategy 2014-2020. It would be a quality debate in the day-long debate in this House, it would also be quality materials if an analysis of the cooperative system, a report on the work of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives, has been done so far by European models. So which of the European models to choose and apply in Croatia or some kind of intermodel between these European models that are applied and which produce results and fruits. We're interested in this, not this blank letter on paper that's contradictory to other laws and that's going to shut down a few more jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80315	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80316	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister. So here's to me saying something about this Cooperative Act. In 2011, as amended in 2013, I think he arranged cooperatives as forms of legal and economic entities represented in all activities and may have actually entered the European Union last year also made possible some new measures that could be applied to such a form of entrepreneurship. Cooperative's nothing new. We heard he has a 150-year tradition. During that time, cooperatives had a significant impact on the economic development, employment and development of local communities. They survived for 150 years, the question is whether to survive Deputy Minister and Minister Maras during this period that follows under this law. We have nearly 1200 cooperatives with 20,000 members and about 3,000 employees. This is an average of 2.5 employees, 18 members per community, and certainly one area to be supported by the State. to walk towards them with designs and proper measures. But what did we get? We received one law, amendments and additions to the law with 28 articles. Of these 19 articles, it organizes the new proposed organisation of cooperatives, the establishment of a new centre that will be some kind of roof for all cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia instead of the current Croatian Association of Cooperatives, then arranges what will be done by the new administrative council, which is the task of the Director, which will be done by the Minister and who should be appointed by the Government. There is only a name missing from a party that will appoint a director from its quota, of course, not to have a fight, and there is no name of a director waiting in such a low beginning of the adoption of this law. That's all there is to it, nothing else, and hopefully there won't be a lot of controversy in the ruling coalition about this, because there's still a few chairs designed. Seven articles delete articles of the law that exist, meaning the article and the article is deleted, the article is deleted and deleted. Then 1 article, imagine 1 out of 28 edits the relief of cooperatives and cooperatives. Those 20% for development, 5% in reserve, if they paid everything right. If they didn't pay, then let them think they'll find 20% or 5%, it'll show time. And of course 1 article always regulates the day of entry into force of such a designed law. And we've been discussing this all day, about a single article that's like some kind of incentive measure. All day, 22 debates, more than budgets. Now, either we've become inventive here in the Parliament or the government has nothing to say about the situation we're in and we can talk about the football game for three days because 20 MPs appear and it lasts for three days. And to make things better, then the government sends six amendments to correct the law because it forgot what the Labour Act said. Not one amendment, but six, and it's got 28 articles. So imagine this effort, imagine this great work and support for the cooperatives, the entrepreneurship, the unemployed, the employees, and that's what we're pulling into the night. Just to ask ourselves where this is going, what came from our country. I say the history of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia is long. The most famous story in these cooperative areas was written by famous writer Mato Lovrak, you remember Train in the snow. I think today is still mandatory literature. Ljuban, Pero, Draga, these are the main ones and the cooperatives, the main heroes of this famous novel. Some of the messages from the cooperatives of that time are still current in our economic and social nature, because it associated me with exactly what we are witnessing these days. The people trusted this coalition community to lead them, to contribute to a better and better life. These days, however, we bear witness to the express selfishness of the chosen leaders. They think only of themselves, of their inside party problems, and of the people, i.e. The cooperatives have been missed or left to take care of themselves, of the problems that are being accumulated, and the train is in deep snow in the midst of this sun that we witness every day. Of course, the leader retreated to the cups in Banski Dvori, thinking about how to survive within the party conflict while the cooperatives are tasked with getting that train out of the snow in which it is. Now, who's Pero, who's Ljuban, and who's Dear, I'll leave it to you. I have that conclusion for myself, and I could even paint it. Because I say the Law on Cooperatives has made it possible in particular for one population, and these are Croatian defenders to find their second reason after the war to survive, to find themselves in the post-war period, to enable themselves and their colleagues at least a minimum of existence. Many have tried, some have failed. There are such examples, but still a healthy tissue was created to enable new measures and aids to further spread of cooperativeism in the Republic of Croatia. However, this form of law will also end these very cooperatives that I am talking about, which are defense cooperatives. What did they get? The Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, for which there is no money in the state budget, has been new to them. They've got a director, they've got a board of directors that makes up the president, the vice president and three members. And then it says, the funds for the business and the work of the centre are secured from the proceeds of the assets, the fees for services, support, donations and other sources. Whose property? What fees? Whose support? That's what we'll find out when the law comes to life. I don't support this or this kind of law because we already have a lot of established centers. I'll just remind you of one investment center. It was a center well-announced. It was supposed to be a tsunami investment. What happened? He turned into a center for confusing investment, not for guessing, for developing, but for confusing investment. Some people sat there, and they told us how they'd come up with it. And when the state does the project, they're the ones who'll figure out how to solve something else. Why would I bring that up? Because today I'm witnessing a major project that's going on on my island and there's a national road being built, i.e. is reconstructed, 7 km of road for almost three years and it's not the performer's fault, it's the designer and everyone who designed it. That you have a road that's 500 meters wide, then 300 narrow, then wide again, so narrow, etc. Where's the center? Where the road is dug several times is paved, where 20, 30 cyclists ride and when they pass through the dust to see what it looks like today at the time of the preseason when every tourist is important. And that was the mission of the Investment Center. He should have solved those energy façades and all major investment in a public-private partnership. Nothing's going on, nothing. So this story will not end up for the benefit of the cooperatives, because we have also testified that Minister Maras has succeeded in his laws in these two years against both the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and he still lacked this association to apply its rules to ensure that all of us don't move and end the most famous SDP programme called the division of the chair. This does not contribute to development. And what it says here is that it will contribute to some kind of competitiveness, development, none of which my lords have. Learn what you've witnessed in the last two and a half years. Nothing special happened except we're more negative, we're worse off than we were. All countries have managed to get out of recession only Croatia is at the bottom and there is no way in hell that little shift we are all expecting is happening. And then we're offered centers, rescue centers. We're not gonna save anyone, and we could destroy some. Because I say from a lot of stories in the end it remains that this was recorded somewhere, that we discussed it. The government sent and repaired, and in the end some settled down and gave us a lesson on how to lead this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80317	Now we'll hear the lines, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80318	Thank you very much. Dear Boris, you mentioned the Energy and Investment Center is called and as far as I know his only investment is the purchase of cars with heated staff seats. So that's what's the only one. Here's a new investment that the MUP buys 260 new cars, although the state bought 1600 two months ago and prescribed some to the MUP, so they don't go to the ministry, they're prescribed to the MUP as the owner. But that's not the point. In fact, there is a strategy and policy in the European Union that is called... Therefore, the common agricultural policy until 2020. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And instead of discussing where our cooperative is located whether our cooperative in this common European agricultural policy can withdraw, because we know that 60% of the cooperatives in the area of agriculture are from that area. Thus, how our cooperatives and cooperatives will be set up in this common agricultural policy by 2020 and even in that 2020 strategy for biofuel production. So, and there are a lot of things where we could break a spear here in this high house. Unfortunately, we break the spear around just showing us a picture of the director of the new center, as we have centers series, offices, agencies, offices, central offices, institutes, chambers, etc. as it is established in order. And we've been saying nicely that we're going to start saving on that number of agencies and on everything that actually makes the state expensive, which makes it expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80319	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80320	Thank you very much. I agree, colleague Grubisic, we don't need centers. They have shown that they are inefficient, that they have not accomplished the task they were set up for and as such should be extinguished after some time, by serious authorities, from serious people who hold to their own words. But we have what we have. You say she bought a car. Cars have been bought over the past two years, and if they were to agree with each other I think they'd stop from Zagreb to Gorica, that would be some good I don't know 8, 10 km and more. In miles, that's not a problem, but it's a problem when you have to help, when you have to give someone support, when you have to give someone a boost, then there's a thousand reasons why he doesn't need it. And then we come to the Parliament with this bill and we say this is reform, this is support, there's so much going on right now. And we're warning in opposition because we're talking to these people. We may have been part of some of the cooperatives that survived, but there are some on the islands. I'm the witness of a defense attorney who tried and failed. Why did she fail? Because she couldn't keep up with everything she was trying to do to supply, say, a hotel company with all the farm supplies. It didn't work out because maybe it all went right, but at one point, it was realized that it just couldn't survive at that size. But the try was okay with me. Now, we're looking at this EU and we're waiting for this one investor who will immediately hire 15,000 people, at once. And he's not coming. And in the meantime, we lose two, three thousand young people who hired two, three, four and five employees. That's not our problem. And then we look at where we could place someone, and here's the cooperative, and here's where we're going to put them, the ones that haven't been able to get to power in 2.5 years, let's go find him a position. And then comes the bill. Unfortunately, it's gonna be wrong again. Reform to the wrong and to the negative. It'll show time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80321	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80322	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric so here's an exaggeration can be emotional, often used for separate purposes, and can also be lucid. Of course, you've gone too far. I answered, Vice President of the Parliament did not see Mr. Djakic's replica. It was indeed an impertinent exaggeration. You, of course, have exaggerated in the context of your debate and you have the right to do so when you criticise the bill. However, what is the core of the problem and let's get back to that story. We're talking about the market here. So cooperatives as special forms to say market players need some care. When we speak, it is not true that there are no models in EU countries, meaning not in this way as centres but there are different bodies in the government that deal exclusively with these social economies and cooperatives. So I'm saying again if you're looking at negative things, you're saying political entanglement, I don't know what kind of expressions you haven't used, then that doesn't make any sense. However, the law says that the public tender will employ the director of the centre. So we can't, and we always go back to it, we undermine all the institutions of this country ourselves and then later we wonder that no one believes in these institutions. Therefore, if a public tender is prescribed, it is known that in a public tender the conditions must be met. You said we were looking for a little shift here. It's not that, it's not a little shift, a lot of things have been put under the carpet for years. So we haven't solved the question yet... You're talking about roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's the project, how many projects are there and they're not solved property-legal relations? So what, you can't solve this center, it has to be solved systematically, the measure of agricultural land. All those things we have to do to ultimately and cooperatives can work. And it's not as trivial as you say little shifts, so we'll do something. The government is working in its own frameworks, so it's looking for solutions, and this law is one of the solutions to make things better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80323	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80324	Thank you very much. I didn't go too far with my friend Sagar. I speak here emotionally maybe because I care about people who deal with it and members are cooperative and I know what's bothering them around. And they reacted before this debate, not since yesterday. And we are here to warn the authorities that something is not working properly. Now, this government doesn't want to hear anything. And we've given the amendments. Of course they won't be accepted. The government has given six amendments to fix its law adopted by the government. And we haven't even started the debate yet and the amendments have come. Is that not an exaggeration to you? When you, as the head of a body that teaches everyone how to behave and who knows how to make mistakes, did not understand what the Labour Act says when you want certain bodies to agree as a administrative council. Well, it says there should be some kind of employee representative. Now it will be some new representative of the centre as it is already called for a cooperative enterprise that will be employed inside, so they will choose between themselves and put it into the board of directors to then be with three other ministers and one president, etc. I lied about the chair story. And that's not an exaggeration for you? Well, we don't need that right now. People are allergic to this kind of debate and to this chairing and making up chairs. If something worked, it could still work. What do we need this center for? What's he gonna do with these cooperatives? And the kuna is nowhere in the budget for nothing. What will he do for them? He'll serve them? What's to pick up statistics, lethargy to write about cooperatives? That's the problem. And speaking of roads, this road I'm talking about has a building permit. And now I'm asking how he has a building permit and no property-legal relations are resolved. That's what everybody tells me. So you have a narrow road and a wide and narrow one and so on in one seven places, and people are driving in the dust today, tourists, cyclists, going through the dust, in front of them a car, so that you can see what it looks like. Well, it's not a job, and there's a center for those investments that should make it all work because they said so. But it doesn't work. And we are rightly skeptical of this new center.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80325	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80326	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, Boric, I must say, here is my colleague, Žagar, who qualified it as an emotional debate, perhaps in one part. But I'll certainly tell you that you've been much more argumentative than your predecessor from the same club, and I like to argue with arguments. Actually, two things, one thing about the argument is that I want to tell you about your qualifications. First of all, when we talk about chambers, you mentioned the HGK and the Croatian Chamber of crafts, so unfortunately we witnessed how these chambers work. First of all, to rule out that craft chamber, it's a special story, first of all because it's not a unique legal person, then what the craftsman's association at the base level is something else entirely different than the HGK that's county-organized. But when you see how the top of the HGK itself worked and that some people are now in prison because of it, then you really wonder if we really needed the HGK in that form. In my opinion, chamber institutions or institutions that should be supporting institutions to entrepreneurship yes, but on the market, and that end-user who pays for them something, who pays a membership fee or something like that, knows exactly what it gets. The other thing I have to refer to is your qualifications on government and members of government, which I don't think about either national or state, and which are concerned by other problems. Well, dear colleagues, members of this government, just to fix what the predecessors did should probably have one life, and I guess those others who were in black bags were the taxpayers' money from public institutions, I guess that's when they thought of the people both of this country and the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80327	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80328	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, look at you and you show double behaviour for example in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So, at one point when the former HGK leader left, when that replacement thing came up, everything was fine, you remember three, four months everything was fine. And once that organization has held its elections, it's no longer a good thing, we'll question that one again. Why? Because you're driven by some kind of political motive and you think that entrepreneurs should deal exclusively with politics and that there should be some people who are put in or deserved by politics. We don't think so. If people have chosen then let them do this job and make sure that the Chamber of Commerce works best. Why did I say craft chamber? Because I come from one island, from one place that is in Croatia by number of unemployed, to 1,000 people we have 150 crafts, and these people are self-employed and trying to survive. And there's a service to them to do something, and you're trying to get to the point where that service is destroyed. And many who work in that chamber are in fear of your job, if you'll spend what you're talking about. And we've rightly explained it here. And as for the qualification of the government, I didn't say any qualification about the government, I just said one association and I mentioned "A train in the snow" and what it associated me with, speaking of cooperatives. And I just said that I leave each of you to think about who Ljuban is, who's Pero and who's Darling in that story, because they're the main heroes plus the cooperatives. I know for myself who associates me with. And it will show time if I can achieve what these cooperatives have achieved with their behavior, and I will not mention a song that followed that story about the train in the snow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80329	But in the end, all the associates joined together to dig up the locomotive. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80330	So here's when you were a train in the snow, you mentioned everything, all the little girls and the wig, but you didn't call this train driver's name, there's a whisper, you mentioned him in the image of Minister Maras, but you said he didn't do anything, or did anything. We have a testimony from the current finance minister that he's worked so hard for a factory like the "Little Biscuit" and the chocolate from Poland that he's about to be poured over. What we are talking about is politics in that part of the establishment of some institution where politics will impose the director, it will continue to be all nice, statistics will do that part of the job and then know exactly how to help cooperatives. Unfortunately, we are witnessing here what we have done, here in the Parliament on the proposal of this government, in this ad hoc way with Gorski Kotar, with cities and municipalities that have been stripped of the status of hill-mounted areas, which have been taken away by millions of kunas and disabled further development, such as the joke has raised their hands in the air and such a law has been passed. To one municipality or city, I have talked about it here many times and pro-po and your road on Rab, taken a million or two million kunas means preventing their further development. This was done without any remorse because Greek Prime Minister, the deputy prime minister of the government, said that Lokve, for example, is more developed than the City of Bakar, according to statistics. Perhaps they would be even more developed if only one family remained and then they would share that budget on them four, so I guess they could develop further. In the same way this law was passed, by emergency procedure, for no real reason whatsoever, the only reason you've talked about it all before, and you've mentioned it is that some minister appoints some kind of administrative council, the director is probably already aware and then we'll determine the statistics, and then we'll see how and how further along with the cooperatives. And I'm afraid everyone's gonna be who with that road of yours on Rab.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80331	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80332	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I said that the people trusted this government, the train driver to lead them into what he had promised them, told them that they would live better, that they would live better, that they would have more quality, that they would have more etc. That I don't list everything they promised. Then after a short while, they said they didn't promise anything, they didn't promise anything. But the people have somehow gone over it because they know that it has the greatest burden of getting out of this crisis as much as they've burdened it. And now in a situation where Europe tells us or the European Union what we have to do, we are dealing with some problems within a party and here we are discussing an article of the law that is important all day, and that is getting out of the crisis, that is getting out of the excessive deficit procedure, I guess, it's helping hire, it's probably a little help, someone's going to get a job there in that center, but again on the state manger because nothing is explained. And then what we're hearing reminds me of today's prime minister's statement that he told the lie but that he knows who's lying. What if I thought more about it? So I told the truth, but I know who's lying. Well, we do, too. But that's not the solution for this country. And we have to he often gives those statements, says we'll teach you fish. Is this the law that teaches cooperatives to fish? Here I'd like to hear the Deputy Minister tell us if this teaches us to fish or the fish is gone. What are we going to hunt if the fish are gone, what are we going to learn, that's the problem. And we're always talking about something but people are looking at us and wondering why we're even discussing this law today when they're being tortured by something else and they just want to live better the way you promised them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80333	But you colleagues will use 30 minutes in this debate that you say is pointless. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80334	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Boric, tells us that politics is framed in the economy by this law. But let me rephrase what you're saying, so you're right to pull a parallel between the Cooperative Centre and the Cooperative Entrepreneurship and the Energy Sector Business Monitoring Centre. There is not a single ministry that has not delegated in certain laws over the past 2.5 years certain jobs from its department to agencies, seducing institutes, etc. And as much as we try to warn the government that it's not a good job and ask that at least one of these newly established institutions this Parliament is getting acquainted with the report on its work, we haven't got it yet. So, for example, this very Energy Sector Monitoring Centre would be good to get to know us what he's done over the past 2.5 years, how successful he has been in carrying out investments in the energy sector. In order to find the purpose of the centre, to establish jobs and work, the Energy Efficiency Act was adopted and given certain jobs. We've been saying there's no point in having this center with such a job burdened because it has neither human nor knowledge. After only a month, the government found herself wrong, so by its own regulation, it returned the work to the one to whom it belonged. So as this centre had no purpose or gained any success in the same way will be the fate of this centre and we will eventually have to return in a month or two or in a year to the basic association that exists and that is the Association of Croatia, and we will forget very soon this centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80335	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80336	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Bacic. Well, we've got another center, the Restructure and Sales Center, and that's the hardest thing I've got, which is the worst thing I've ever had since they announced the sale of the hotel company Imperial. You know how they put it? I read it here. They wrote that they were not responsible for the truthfulness of documents and given information in the first round in which they had excluded everyone in the second round, so that they would realize that someone had hidden 80,000 squares of land somewhere, and they had re-entered the deep recording of the company now to call the second round, but not the first one again because they had miswritten someone, but we were going the same way again. And it's not a Platt hotel, one hotel so sell it, it's a whole system on an island that lives on at least a thousand and a half people connected through crafts, through rentals, through employed families, etc. And it's still done. And such centres instead of contributing to the development of this state, they only do harm. In this board of directors, the deputy ministers of the CERRP are sitting, and they all know it, and instead of making some kind of decision that goes in favour of people, always exclusively for the benefit of obviously some others. And that's why we're worried about who's going to bring in this board of directors that's so complex, and it already says who are members other than the one who's going to choose from the newly formed center, it's going to be the employee's representative, we're missing the director's name, so I guess that's gonna tell us who he is because he's waiting at that low start as 100m and then we're going to form another body. And when we rightly warn that, we are either defetists or catastrophics or we do not think well of this people, and we claim the opposite. I think we're working in favor of them for the benefit of people and we want this to not be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80337	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80338	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Do you really think that at this Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship no one will be employed because you look at me surprised the Prime Minister has probably read this document, seen in it that no one will be employed and he argues that no one will be employed and then after 10, 15 or 20 days someone will still be employed at the centre, create commitments for the budget and create problems such as creating problems with the fired part of the MUP that have been replaced because someone wanted to. Because it's very interesting that professional people have been removed, and others have been brought in by the criteria of party similarity, etc. However, all that expensive man would chew it all together if it didn't cost many Croatian taxpayers or citizens of the Republic of Croatia because one such game there from 2001 cost the Croatian state over 350 million. Now, my colleague Boric, you can imagine how much money could be sent to Croatian cooperatives instead of these lawsuits that will surely be initiated by these removed employees in the MUP and will surely need to pay for what they have suffered over the past year, first of all on their pay bag of mental and moral pain they cannot afford. But look, when someone reads this document carefully, then it's no wonder they say nobody's busy. This document says that no new money needs to be secured in the budget, and there will be no new employees. But this document, among the words, says that the minister of crafts and entrepreneurship has finally succeeded in obtaining an organization under his own. First he missed with the Croatian Chamber of Brethren, then a terrible failure with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, if the poor Croatian cooperatives have now won.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80339	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80340	Well, fellow Boric, you haven't exaggerated at all, as some colleagues say you've painted this whole bill nicely. You were talking about cooperative, about cooperative members, you were talking about tradition, and as you know in our neighborhoods in the islands, the members of the cooperative are mostly retired and they are organized primarily in the olive cooperatives, primarily because of the processing of olives for personal needs with very little or some small quantities, but also because of this centuries-old tradition that you were talking about. And one of those members of those retired cooperatives was acting as director or manager of the cooperative. Since the new Pension Insurance Act is in force, it will no longer be possible and we are all wondering who will now be the manager of an island, Rivnja, Sestrunja, Iž, Olib, where only pensioners live. Whether the manager will now come and have to come from Zadar from a young man who will lead and do all of this together, with whom they will pay him. They will not have to pay him for the ferry, let alone his fee and his wages, and from which they will pay him, for they have received these cooperatives as a rule, and there is no. If there are, then it is invested in some breakthrough of Polish roads, concrete or recovery, and is mostly invested for the greater good. But here you have also mentioned these heroes from the novel Train in the snow and Love and Peru and Draga, so here you can refresh our memory a little closer and share with us your thinking about who in today's reality these heroes of the novel Train in the snow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80341	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80342	Thank you very much. A colleague of Jerolimov, it is good for this young man to come from Zadar, not to come from Kumrovec because it is nearer to the islanders, you understand. The problem will be if it comes from the inside, from some other part where then simply the domicile population is somehow left without...... I don't have anything against the Kumrovec or anyone else, so it won't be misread. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'm saying, this is exactly the kind of law that's going to end what's a little bit of enthusiasm from which people are starting to form cooperatives, and then they're going to end up doing a little bit of those activities that they've been working with to work together, and they're going to enjoy some of the fruits of that joint work. And in the end, you have either eviction or the disappearance of people from the island, but they care about it in Zagreb. They have a task to create a structure, solve these few chairs, and that's it. The story of Drago and Ljuban and Peri is interesting because Pero was not elected even though he voted for himself, and Ljuban was a favorite host. Pero married Draga, I don't know who Draga is in this story, but he showed something at times when he should pull out, I mean Peru. He was selfish, retired in the car, and he let his associates work. Now who's going to be in those stories who, they're going to show time, but I thought it was a valuable story that we've all been through, and it's very much a picture of today's state of association, and that's why I listed that famous song that could help those who are trying so hard to do the opposite. ... They didn't follow him well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80343	Mladen Marelić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80344	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy with a colleague. I come from the middle where 150 years ago the first cooperative was formed. I'm going to talk about agricultural cooperatives, so that's the core of what some colleagues are and potentiate that debate. I think what's going on here today is that I think the demeaning of this House, and that's the story itself, because when we talk about which employment, who's throwing it at, I think there's a colleague here today when they still get warrants in the middle down there, they need to be hired by name and last name, but that's the second time we're going to talk about it. Cooperatives have had a significant impact on the economic development, employment and development of local communities, which we in the islands know well. I can tell about Korčula, Peljesac peninsula, Vis, Lastovo, it was... In this regard, everyone and the economy gathered together because they were carriers and tourist constructions, i.e. hotel construction, sports guarantees, culture, all revolved around these cooperatives. And today there's a lot of turning around where it wasn't those who wanted to take over some of the cooperatives for themselves. We're talking about reducing the number of cooperatives, yes, certainly reducing the number of cooperatives because we know, I know from my mid-2005 to 2011, that some cooperatives have almost been destroyed, and I know that hundreds of jobs have been lost. I come from where the cooperative works, there are 120 cooperatives, cooperatives who tell stories and the bureau are some, they're not employees of that company, but they're cooperatives and they're on the bureaus and they're working. Someone's saying that these cooperatives don't have anything left for them, they don't have to pay the directors. Because this law and pensioners can be directors, but that's not interesting. What's important is that something else is said, it's important that nothing goes wrong, nothing goes wrong. That is why it came to the establishment of the Centre for Co-operation, because the so far Croatian Institute for Co-operation has failed to fulfil the obligation to implement it and I think that the restructured change in the ministry itself, which has estimated that a replacement with the Co-operation Centro is a good move to contribute that this roof organisation must carry out its task. Because we all know that the regional alliances and regions remain together, so they don't touch each other, we go with them. The power of cooperative entrepreneurship is reflected in the number of cooperative members, the number of employees and the income they generate and the benefits they bring to the local community. Croatian cooperatives have insufficient potential to join the European Union for cooperatives, but face the challenges of a significantly larger market. In order to overcome market challenges, and to take advantage of the opportunities that EU accession provides, it is necessary to restructure, facilitate the business of cooperatives, and create frameworks that will enable the competitiveness of membership and cooperative entrepreneurship to be strengthened. The primarily proposed amendments and additions of the Co-operation Act create conditions for a more effective support institution through the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship. Because it is not a new centre, it is a centre that changes the Croatian Association. So the number of employees there will be and that's what we're talking about. But that's, everyone has a right to say they're complaining about it. The establishment of the Croatian Centre in charge of the EU means... We know that we can withdraw funds from funds as non-refundable to 75%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the Croatian Institute, the cooperative alliance can be 50%. So we have 25% regulation that we can pull more back. Cooperatives are facilitated by business, relieved by parafiscal charges, compulsory membership fees and improving their business. The law aims to create a more quality and efficient institutional framework for the promotion and support of the development of cooperative entrepreneurship through the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship as a legal follower of the Croatian Association. These amendments to the Cooperatives Act seek to create an institutional framework that will create greater opportunities for cooperatives to operate entrepreneurially, provide them with support for adaptation and entry into the European market, create preconditions for faster development based on new technologies and organic production, launch greater economic activity in less populated and rural areas, ensure more active participation of cooperatives to stop the population, create entrepreneurial opportunities for young people, improve the structure and function of the cooperative system, improve the education of cooperatives and cooperative managers, carry out more effective control of changes to cooperative principles. All of what we're about to get with this law, and what the roof organization has now ignored, and that's why we've come to this situation that the cooperative has failed to carry out its task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80345	A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80346	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's before I go to the debate I've held since I'm among the last, let me have a few observations and thoughts that have been held by the debate so far. First of all, a colleague, Boric, and in the replica, we mentioned the chambers. So, at least I can personally say to myself that as far as the chamber is concerned, I represent one consistent position, which is that chambers need to be marketed. Of course, I said it again and I repeat it again. The Croatian Chamber of crafts is something else, first of all, because of its structure and then because of the Association of craftsmen who, in my opinion, are doing their job much more effectively than the HGK does. But, well, it's not the topic of today's debate, so I won't stick around. First of all, today we had a lot of debates about cooperatives, and everyone when they talk about cooperatives, first of all, has agricultural cooperatives on their minds. It is true that they take the most part to say the cooperative cookie, but they do not have, are not exclusively, and a lot of cooperative potential exists in other segments of business, which has been the case so far. And to look at cooperatives exclusively as agricultural mistakes is a mistake, and if we think long-term, and we want to think long-term, it probably won't be like that, and the picture of cooperatives and their activities will certainly change. What is the goal of these changes and additions, at least, of how I'm experiencing them? This is to improve existing legal solutions, create conditions for the further development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship as desirable and competitive activities in the economy. We should also bear in mind that our cooperatives and our cooperatives face a whole new kind of challenge, which is an approach to the common market of the European Union. What we as a legislator should provide is maximum support when placing our products on the same and performing on the market. How? I'll tell you more about it later. There is a lot that has already been said about cooperation in Croatia in the debate so far, I would not hold on to it. So first of all, we have a very long tradition of cooperativeism. This tradition of cooperativeism has affected all spheres of life. Above all, of course, on the economic but also on the other, employment, all social elements and other elements that made up Croatian society over the past century and a half. Unfortunately, I can say that we have a lot of untapped potential in our cooperative. First of all, cooperatives must begin to perceive themselves as something that is not the legacy of the socialist plan economy, that cooperatives are not exclusively agricultural cooperatives and that cooperatives can certainly be competitive in today's market. For this reason, it is necessary to promote and actively encourage the development of cooperatives and cooperatives as such in the Republic of Croatia and to create a prerequisite for competitiveness, therefore, and to carry on with new opportunities that we have come as a market for joining the EU common market. So, first of all, the creation of an effective legal framework is a priority. And I think that this law is just one contribution, we can say a small contribution but still contribute to that very goal. In addition to the fact that cooperatives are not limited to agricultural activity, we can say that cooperatives are a completely different kind of economic activity. So, apart from the very economic element, he has a social element here, above all. So far, social entrepreneurship that is extremely trending in Western countries has been mentioned, and these are all elements that should not be ignored and which should be developed and thought about. First of all, what I want to point out, and I have always welcomed it, all measures for discharging operators on the economic market, i.e. on the market in the economy, should be to welcome and support them. And that's certainly what's been said here and even the critical abolition of mandatory membership in the roof society. Therefore, I remain in the position that nothing can prevent the cooperatives from joining together, to give their opinions to the resolution ministry and to give their problems and how they see the future of Croatia's cooperative. Also, some have tried to relativate the membership fee by saying it is 55 kuna per month. Can 55 kunas a month save a cooperative if it has an annual turnover of 100 thousand kuna? However, colleagues and colleagues here who are sitting in this assembly, who were at one point in the economy, know very well what parafiscal burdens are and how difficult they are to deal with. We had a paradox where certain entrepreneurs on the market had to be members of two chambers, agricultural and economic or crafts-based depending on which form they appeared on the market. We had paradoxes where the chambers obviously failed to fulfil their tasks and what was expected of them, first of all, their end-users. So if we're talking about 55 kuna for the Croatian Association of Cooperatives, or cooperatives on an annual basis, that's 660 kuna, on a 5-year basis, that's 3300 kuna. And we can talk about how it's a small amount, but let's add other membership fees, other mandatory fees, other charges. Well, then it's growing into a respectable sum that you have to settle every month. So it's a fair amount a year. That is why I welcome the efforts and the ministries, but also these governments to minimise parafiscal intrusions. Therefore, entrepreneurs, i.e. consumers on the market, pay VAT, entrepreneurs pay profit tax, and thus the state should also be financed by its institutions, not through parafiscal charges. Especially if we're creating systems within the system that chamber systems can turn into. Also, mandatory separations have been reduced to ensure continuity from 30% to 20%, hence their recording. It is also a measure to be welcomed. And I believe that those who work in cooperatives who are cooperatives will know very well about it. I said that cooperatives are not limited to agriculture, so I also want to say something about the potentials that cooperatives can have in the coming period in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. So, first of all, it's energy cooperatives and ethical banks. Ethics banks are one new concept, relatively new in the west but very new in Croatia. I am very pleased to hear that there is an initiative in Croatia to establish such a bank based on cooperative principles. And that's that the user is also co-owner of the bank, that he participates in the management of the bank and that the bank helps him if he has problems. In the sense that he gives him financial advice, debt reprogrammes, that he sits with him when he's in trouble and sees what he can do. Other banks that do not operate on that principle are charged with collateral, sitting on property, starting with performances, etc., etc. So a completely different principle of banking is based precisely on cooperative principles. In addition to energy cooperatives and ethical banks we have other types, let's say savings-credit cooperatives existed there, but there is also a whole clustering means when more business entities can perform together on the market is the same one form of cooperativeism. However, in a slightly different sense, in the sense that it does not involve individuals but rather legal persons or crafts but on very similar principles. Defense cooperatives are also mentioned a lot and I want to once again in my individual debate to say some of the things that I think are standing, first of all. The defence minister explicitly said that amendments and additions to the new Law on Defences were being prepared and that the new law would specifically regulate defence cooperatives. Because, as defense cooperatives are said, they have not only an economic element but also a social element. First of all, the resocialization of helping our defenders who are suffering from PTSD and other diseases that they have earned by defending the independence of the Republic of Croatia. So it has one completely different component and value other than just economic and other than the one that is focused on profit generation. Of course, that is certainly the additional value of their work and activities. Also, the need for a strategy was mentioned. So, I said and I will repeat because obviously this should be repeated strategy for the development of entrepreneurship we have. Do we also need to approach the Cooperative Development Strategy and cooperative action? We can discuss this, I think it is even desirable that we discuss this and that in these discussions we have heard some proposals that go in the direction that this strategy should look like. First of all, it would be interesting to hear the cooperatives and cooperatives themselves think about it and how they want to position themselves and perform on the market. To conclude, I see this law as helping cooperatives, above all, to free them from certain parafiscal burdens by making their business easier under already difficult circumstances. Although for nothing else, and then this law should be welcomed and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80347	Thank you. A respectable Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Domagoj, I am pleased that you mentioned the defenders again, in fact, the defence cooperatives precisely because they are mentioned today in another context that the Ministry of Defense or that no one is taking care of them, that they are shutting down. However, it is clear to all of us that they serve both resociation and reintegration of defenders and that they are essentially a social characteristic that is very important for defenders. I'm just going to fill you in, with the fact that, as you know, we've put into the law of the Veteran Center, and that's what's really thinking is that we can use defense cooperatives to supply such centres here and in this way, so we're thinking ahead of time about how to support these defense cooperatives that they are, this ministry is very conscious of the importance of that, so we can't think about any shutting down and not caring about defense cooperatives, but quite the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80349	The replica corresponds to the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That, fellow Members, unfortunately, is trying to create an atmosphere where the impression is created that this government is not taking care of the defense population, that it is neglecting it and that it systematically wants to destroy what is not true. And from this place I am responsible for saying that it is not true, and this is reflected in the very fact that there is also a separate Ministry of Defence that has very visible results as can be seen from the reports and daily communication that all interested people can have with the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80351	There will be a debate over 10 minutes of respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80352	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, here is an analysis of most of the proposals that come into this House can somehow be concluded that they either come in a very broad form with ambiguous and unclear provisions or in a very short form with destructive provisions. This solution is not too wide or vague, so it can be classified into this other group. In the light of the purpose, the intention of adopting this law writes: "The law wants to create a better, more efficient institutional framework for promotion and support for the development of cooperative entrepreneurship through the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Social Entrepreneurship.". Who would not reasonably support such a solution that contributes to a better, more efficient institutional framework, the promotion of cooperative society, but nothing is explained how this will be achieved. The intentions should always be classified behind concrete activities. In 27.9.2013, Minister Maras proposed an amendment to an emergency procedure with a very short provision to amend the Co-operation Act, and most importantly it was important to appoint a commission for the representative assembly and this commission was appointed by no one else, not even a cooperative but a very minister. And under the law amending the laws, the commission appointed by the minister was obliged to convene a representative assembly no later than 6 months, the deadline expired on 20.4. It was not the committee appointed by the minister, it did not provide for a representative, a call for a representative assembly. Why, who appointed the committee? Well, Minister, he named it himself. And there's no conjecture, there's no consequence that they don't call the commission, and they don't call it in on purpose. There is no analysis of the situation in the cooperative alliance, no analysis of why no representative assembly has been convened, beware that it is the legal obligation of the commission to convene, they do not respect the law, they do not respect the law of the person appointed by the minister. And that's why he's keeping it quiet like it wasn't. And now the new proposal once again changes by an urgent procedure only one thing to represent and represent a cooperative body that is not from cooperatives but appointed by the minister. So the truth is, they'll represent, that board will represent the cooperatives, but they won't represent them. And the legal proposal to represent and represent her. I don't understand the background of how, how it is possible that they will represent cooperatives better, better quality, more efficient, their interests will be protected by someone else than they themselves. This was neither explained nor explained to me. Anti, such a thesis cannot be supported by any argument valid, arguments can be invented. But what's the point? That the minister appoints a board of directors, that he can appoint himself president of a community entrepreneurship centre and that he is actually a cooperative, he or the deputy, or perhaps a secretary of some or an assistant. Is that promoting the interest of cooperative? And I said in one replica this morning, it is similar if the Croatian Employers' Association Minister appointed the administrative council of the Croatian Employers' Association and, under the pretext, the administrative board will appoint a director or what is called in the public competition. So what if it's a public tender, what's the minister gonna name himself someone who's being proposed by the cooperative or the one he's proposing? This is one way... and property because the center is a legal follower of the Alliance of Cooperatives. It is a direct interference in the ownership relations of private stakeholders because the Alliance of Cooperatives is actually an alliance of private natural and legal persons and there is no reason for this administrative council to be appointed, not from cooperatives but from the minister to appoint them. But then let the directors of private companies and the owner of crafts not represent crafts, but let the minister appoint him, someone who will represent craftsmen, that's best. They'll know better who this person is who's gonna represent some craftsman than he's gonna represent himself. As regards the thesis on the abolition of parafiscal duties, why is the fact that no membership fee has been paid for 2013 and 2014 in the Cooperatives' Union? Why is that ignored? If it is written, and it is true that it is not paid, then nothing has been obtained, when it is not already paid, and it is true that no one has paid the membership fee for 2013 and 2014. If you want to lift the parafiscal burdens, then let's say, I'd like to ask you to cancel the obligation for each legal person to submit a financial report and pay 230 kuna for the publication of the financial report. So the state obliges him to publish the report and he still has to pay the fines 230 kuna for the announcement. Well, that's 23 million kuna. Second, it'll cut costs. So it's gonna cost more to the board of directors and new directors than all the last membership fees it's ever been. But I must stress that this is neglected, in fact, that the concentration comes down to something completely irrelevant, and that actually cooperatives that can sound to someone in one way or another are the past, the present, but also the future of the economy, especially in agricultural activity. There is no modern agricultural activity without cooperativeship, no European state is without cooperation, but somebody tell me that in the Union, Austrian cooperatives are appointed by the minister of their own council. Let him tell me either in Austria or in the Netherlands or in any other country. It doesn't exist. That's why I couldn't resist saying that this is the only model we could sell to North Korea because the closest one there is. Agriculture has such potential that it has not been used. Croatian agriculture has such potential that it has not been used, in fact we can feed 3 Croatia, and we do not feed a third of Croatia. It's devastating. But no one in the ministry has yet analyzed the problem of essential things. What is it, why so much food is expensive in Croatia, more expensive than in neighbouring countries? Why is it more expensive than in the countries from which we import this food? Because the biggest problem is not production, but distribution channels, interfaces between manufacturers and consumers. All profits are lost in the interspace, no one can blackmail a producer like in Croatia or the cooperatives that they have to pay for the arrangement of shelves, of 30, 40 or 50, or more thousands of euros. Nowhere in the world, only in Croatia can it be done. Until we solve the problem of distribution in Croatia, they will never, that market does not determine prices, that monopolistic position and... determine prices, and most importantly, what exists for man after water, heat, it is food. It's the safest product for a man's plasma and most needed product. And that's the most expensive one. And there's no competition at all, there's no competition. Now, that's not an accident and it's been 23 years. This must finally be a solution to eliminate such undesirable situations, and not one change of title, by appointing a board of directors to solve such a complex problem, it will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80353	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. Ivan Simunović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Marić, I support and welcome every effort to make life and business easier for entrepreneurs in Croatia by reducing costs and simplifying procedures. Cooperatives are extremely important in this process because they increase the competitiveness of the small economy. However, the increased involvement of the state in the whole story is not a step in the right direction. The attitude about how the country's bad master didn't come into existence without a foundation in reality, and the evidence of it every day we see around us. This is particularly clear in agriculture, which has been destroyed by state interventions during socialism, and... which are still full of the mouths of villages and peasants today. In the last three years we have witnessed several amendments to the rules governing this matter, this is not the only case in which legal uncertainty is created and the economy is damaged, this practice finally has to stop once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80355	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80356	Thank you very much. Comrade Simunovic, but this isn't about state property, this is where the state gets involved in private property. He's not the state's owner of cooperatives, nor the founder of cooperatives, and the state needs to intervene where the market doesn't work, where he shows defects, failures and all deviations. But he can't manage private property and private property through the board of directors. Here's direct interference in private property. If something doesn't work, some state will establish its own cooperatives, let it create its alliances, and let it compete privately if they're not functional, but it can't sort things out in this way. In particular, there is no analysis of the existing situation at all, there is no anywhere, there is no one sentence on the existing situation in cooperative entrepreneurship, on the situation in agriculture, because the most relevant is agriculture, there are no measures or measures proposed to improve the existing situation at all, nor to encourage a positive one, let alone a simulation of the effects of such measures. What is the simulation of the effect of forming a centre? It is only that the minister will be able to appoint a board of directors and suggest who will be the director of the centre and, of course, will increase the costs because so far they have been able to volunteer from now on to the board of directors and the director will not volunteer. The first thing they do is immediately buy jeeps, offices, new furniture, secretary, who knows how many offices they're gonna have. This is not decided by the cooperatives, the board of directors decides, the minister decides. It's pointless, irrational, and it's really against common sense. There's so much I can accept, but like this, it hits common sense, it really can't be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80357	Another replica and respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that the amendments and additions to this law took place on 20.9.Last year, and you also said that the committee appointed by the minister did not convene the assembly with a deadline this year until 20.4. The question is, why? Who's the minister afraid of here? Is he afraid of the associates he's passing this law for? We had something similar with the Law on crafts, where the minister was also disrespected, the proposals of the craftsmen themselves, so let's remember the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But another thing, you only finally touched it, which is that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship actually has the status of a public institution, and in the structure and way of work and part-time center, the provisions of the Law on Institutions are particularly applicable. However, the proposer in several places did not predict it actually ignored that fact. And I think we should talk about it and lead to today's debate, which is not good because of the very changes and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80359	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80360	counterpart Babic named after an emergency procedure and amendments to the previous law from 9 months last year, the minister has appointed a commission within 30 days of the law's adoption, as will now be appointed by the administrative council. The commission had never met, and by the deadline of 20 April it had to convene this representative assembly representing the Alliance of Cooperatives. The commission did not convene a representative assembly. No representative assembly, no report from the representative assembly. I mean, it's the only thing that can be assumed that it's covering something, and there's no sanctions, there's no sanctions. Who guarantees that members of the commission will not be members of the board now? Not to guarantee that there will be none, but most likely one of them will be. Who guarantees that members of the board will meet at all? In six months, we may have a new amendment to the law again, because if the commission didn't meet, maybe the administrative council won't meet. But, of course, because it's illogical, unnatural, unlively that the state intervenes in private property and manages in some way through the administrative council of private property and private interests, it's nowhere, it's inadmissible in democracy, in civilization, in the market economy. Not only inadmissible, but there's no such thing. And with that all the lands have come to an end. The state has the possibility of being an entrepreneur, let it form anything and get on the market if there are not enough market competitors. It can also make coolers, it can do distribution centers, it can form cooperatives, the state can do anything, but let it not interfere and should not work, but let it not interfere with private property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80361	An individual debate and a respected Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80362	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister. This law, which was proposed for the amendment, was adopted in 2011 and, of course, during these two years, it has been established that there are certain, has been seen better stated certain shortcomings. We take the example for the sake of this unfortunate membership fee mentioned, that it did not pay in 2013 and 2014. Well, if it's not a problem, then let's get rid of it, and I think it's quite all right, is that one flaw, the perceived lack. Why? Well, because in 2011, the cooperatives were dissatisfied, too, because at the time, the proposal did not go through to abolish the membership fee and move towards voluntary accession. It is certainly seen that a certain incentive framework is also needed in some way to strengthen or better to run it because it simply through this Cooperative Union itself has not been. ... sort of about the law. There's a couple of data, here's what I'll mention. It says that half of the world's population is living off cooperative incomes, so that's about 3 billion. Every third EU resident is a cooperative, 50% of EU agriculture is organised jointly, in Poland 80% of the dairy is in the hands of cooperatives. We respect all this tradition and heritage and values and principles, but regardless of 150 years, these data we have, and the data is that we have only about 1200 cooperatives, 20,000 cooperatives, 2 and a half thousand employees, etc., that this is all in a thick, thick disproportionate way with these EU indicators. And of course they're bad and that data tells itself too much. The reasons for these bad numbers certainly lie in our past and in the near present. In the past, it's the nuance of those 50-year-old cooperatives... and in the present, the near present itself policy of the past decades, and also the Croatian Union of Cooperatives did not give justifiable expectations, there was no support, there was no incentive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it's our job to do our best, to give that one incentive for full momentum in the development of this cooperative. I, as a Slavonac, will first say especially about food production, because the wrong Slavonia has a chance or more accurately, without it, there is no chance of Slavonia. Because, of course, there's no competition, so you know the state of our agriculture. The ministry of this proposal supports cooperatives as a form of volunteering, not obligations. So, it's being abolished, it's proposed to abolish membership as a parafiscal imposition and I don't think it's disputed and that there shouldn't be a problem about it. It also reduces isolation for the sustainability and development of cooperatives from 30% to 20%, which can also be in the function of encouraging the investments themselves. The association on a professional or territorial basis is absolutely not questionable and it is certainly desirable, and only by law is it proposed to transform the Croatian Federation of Associations into a Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship. According to me and this proposal, the role of this centre is driving, not to mention what is his job. But most importantly, it is certainly the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. In my view, this is also the basic reason for the establishment of this centre, and for me, because in the Governing Council, the Ministry of Agriculture, entrepreneurship, regional development because they also have all their structure, trained personnel who can do what the Croatian Union is and how it does not particularly respond when it comes to projects, i.e. funds and withdrawal of funds from the EU. Of course there are defenders. Why the defenders? A particularly sensitive population that requires special attention, because the defence cooperative that we advocate is often also a therapeutic cooperative, so I think that only in that segment or rather that segment will have to pay particular attention to me especially when it comes to these people who can't right now because of the Law on Pensions and the Labour Law are where they should be. It's true that it's abolished, so the alliance, that the center is taking over the property. But as far as I know, they don't have any property. Some equipment to no one, rights and obligations, and I don't see that problem if it's to create order, if it's to strengthen cooperatives. There's nothing the ministry can get rich, because there's no property. There are five employees who will be taken over, and what is most important I am the Administrative Council is what is about to gain that strength, get that incentive, get a run for at least as much equalisation or better said approximations to those trends, those standards of cooperatives that are present in Europe today. That's how much I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80363	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First honoured Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80364	Thank you very much. Comrade Ronko, you have said that this bill changes the law adopted in 2011. No, the law passed last year at 9 months is changed, because last year, by emergency procedure, the law was passed as well, and it is changing. And now again by emergency procedure, that there's no explanation why by emergency procedure, and that's just to change instead of forming a center instead of an alliance of cooperatives. But let's hypothetically set things up. I listened to you very carefully, so maybe even if you were a little more careless and agreed with everything you said. But suppose we're not representatives here, but that we're associates and that we're teaming up with an alliance or a center, whatever the name is. Would you agree to let us choose between ourselves the Administrative Council or would we leave it to Minister Maras to decide who will govern us? I think it's probably how you said today that while Minister Maras is going to decide that, if he were to happen to be Minister Babic and HDZ in power, then it wouldn't be good. And you see, I also say that if Minister Babic were and HDZ were in power, I would be against this bill because it's not logical, it's not lifelike, and I would never agree that the minister appoints an administrative council of our co-operatives, in this case of MPs, hypothetically speaking, but that we can handle it ourselves and know how to promote personal and own interests better than anyone else. Maybe even someone named someone isn't even well-advised about it. And then what? It's always the beginning. Change of government and start over, and that's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80365	The replica matches Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80366	Thank you very much. I would agree with you if that were the case, however, there is a big difference between the center and the alliance. The center is not a roof organization or a roof body of cooperatives. Co-operatives don't even pay membership fees, so they don't finance the center. The center is a completely isolated body that is a state body, so let's call it that, de facto, will be in function to help the cooperatives. And there are no choices for them, neither they have a congregation nor they are funded, but a simple body that will help through the assistance and through the infrastructure of the ministries that I have listed, that I do not now count them again, which will be able to help, and not only help but help greatly to withdraw these funds. Just because these funds are in the funds, which we don't withdraw, I think that's exactly why we're going to the urgency of this process, to put into operation as soon as possible all the resources we have so that we can withdraw those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80367	Second replica, the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard for me, I shouldn't be answering the line you sent to Mr. Maric, but the center is actually a legal follower, it's so clear to you, the alliance. However, you said probably in the heat one incorrect fact that almost half of the world’s population is in one way or another a member of a particular cooperative. They say it's about 800 million people, of which 164 million people are in the European Union alone through 300,000 cooperatives in different sectors. Because of credibility, it might be good that you compared that number to Croatia, so since 2011 in fact, some 1800 cooperatives have been abolished or shut down around 1800. The number of cooperatives today is about 1169, and the number of cooperatives is somewhere in 485. They received data in 2013 about a billion and 900, about 2 billion kuna. But what is not good, which is that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Law states that an unemployed cooperative cannot receive compensation, for example, while he is unemployed. And also, the Pension Insurance Act, for example, prevents pensioners from being managers, which is not good in view of their experience or if the cooperative wants to do so for their general good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80369	Replication response, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80370	Thank you very much. I think as far as those who can or can't be at the head of cooperatives are concerned, I said that in my debate, and I said that more needs to be taken into account, special attention, and especially when it comes to defenders. As far as this figure is concerned, I gave the wrong information, half of the world's population lives on cooperative incomes. I didn't say they were cooperatives. Maybe you weren't following, but I said he's living off corporate incomes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80371	Third replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80372	Thank you very much. Comrade Ronko, you were talking about those illustrious experiences and memories of our people to those cooperatives from the communist era, and then you were talking in the second part about ignoring the role of cooperative in this recent history of the free, independent Croatian state where, in fact, in some sense, the government did not go to the hands of cooperatives and cooperatives, and a little bit of this cooperative was minorized, neglected. But how can you talk about the fact that this center is very good, although it is according to Article 8 of this covenant, when people after 20 years and in this country have bad experiences? He's going to have bad experiences and memories again and for the past 20 years because the cooperative has fallen on these branches that he's burned to. In Europe, there are 5 million cooperative employees. That would be appropriate if it were 42,000, 1% of the population in Croatia. That's 42,000 employees, and we only have 2400 employees. So we should increase the employment of cooperatives by 21 times. Bad experiences and bad memories will not contribute this time, not only after the communist era but also after this 22-23 year of freedom.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80373	And this replica matches Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80374	Thank you very much. Well, here we'll agree that the last 20 years, perhaps even before, have been marginalized cooperative. This is absolutely not disputed, because if it were not marginalised then relations would be appropriate to what we have in the European Union or as you say 40,000 should be employed. So as far as that goes, there's absolutely no dispute. What I'm saying is what the center will look like and what we expect from the center, so of course we expect it to make that breakthrough because it has power, because it's just got everything that we have the strongest, most able through the ministries to get through it, and we didn't have it in the alliance. You can't have five clerks who don't even know how to fill out papers for one project or for one application. Therefore, if we include ministries that will, through this form and work and action, and certainly also detach the most qualitative personnel, help to attract those funds or withdraw them, it is only a sign that it feels that this will be far better than it was an alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80375	Thank you. The closing statement on behalf of the HDSSB club will be presented by the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since there is no replica on the replica, and I forgot to say a little bit because I would like to know how the centre would solve, for example, the Staro Petrovo Selo dairy cooperative, so what is currently in our area in the fifth constituency. In order to resolve this, the cooperatives of fruitcakes in Brod-Posavina County, including Požega-Slavonska repurchasers, pay neither plum nor apple nor grapes that buy and drive to Ivanić-grad, or I don't know where else in the case of Baranja, Belje, Bela Manastir, etc. It's what can't or won't solve the state, and it won't solve the centre, no centre will solve these cooperatives' problems. So I don't think the solution to the cooperative problem is the establishment of a center. It's just the entanglement of the SDP or the HNS I don't know who in the coalition will take that position. I have no idea who, we'll see. That's not the problem. Maybe as the deputy minister said in the closing statement, he'll tell us who he'll be. So that's it. I would be much more interested if in this material exactly what I was saying in some replicas was involved in how cooperatives will behave towards the common agricultural policy prescribed by the European Union. By 2000 they have recommendations and have goals, plans where... how our cooperative will fit here 2 and a half thousand employees, and in Europe is 5 million, 1% of the total European population is 500 million EU, 5 million cooperative employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that cooperation with us would be normal and would be within European frameworks, and there we belong to be employed in the cooperative of 42000 people. That would be, so if we could hear the report of this committee, then conduct an analysis, not just of the government, but of us Parliamentarians, and then take measures to get there. It would be the right thing to discuss, and unfortunately today we are breaking a spear about only one thing that is the center, the director of the centre, his deputy, several employees, who may also buy cars from the Governing Council in which the ministers who actually have their jobs in the government are also going to do what Mr. Ronko was talking about. So they need to take care of agriculture and all other fisheries branches, etc. in his resolute ministry. Well, they have nothing to do with cooperatives, so it's a private initiative, a private matter. And there they need to help the population no matter what the center or not was, so that's their duty, that's what they're paid for, that's what taxpayers pay for. There's no need to go to the centers. And put what someone here says on their paws, so usurp, just usurp cooperatives. Because as the government's upheaval to the Chamber of Commerce was tried in the same way, money was being usurped somewhere, for example, in the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity. There someone went to Dubrovnik walls to participate in the distribution of cakes. Someone from the coalition again, but we're not going to talk about who it is so we don't get hurt again. Then, in the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce was cooked. So here we have examples even in HBOR, here's examples of HBOR starting with let's tell Shegon, it's how it is, we're not going to lie now, we're going to go further to some. That might be what the DORH will say. So there's no need, just like if we didn't know how to put hunting associations in a hunting center where there'd be ministers at the board. Well, then, the fire department, then for, perhaps, the Football Federation, we put in a football center of the Croatian government. And that she manages, to be roofed by the blacksmith Nikki, to win, what tactics against Brazil will she determine. That's really funny! There's no need for that. And here's the whole debate we're having today. I don't agree that this is how we all bother with one thing like that. You said the other two 20% of the funds were said to be voluntary. And that's all this law contains that we're discussing for 8 hours today, and there are so many important topics in this country, so many valuable initiatives can be taken. I said one thing if we could give 250,000 public service employees 10 kuna per 6 months with our signature we could make 150 million kunas in 6 months for our flooders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80377	Thank you. Replica, first Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80378	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you said the Administrative Council will be appointed members of the SDP and the HNS. Please read more carefully on page 7 of Article 15: "The President and Vice-President of the Governing Council shall appoint a minister responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts, and the sub-members shall be appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Regional Development and Defence." It's all under SDP's authority. There is no Minister of Economy in this law. Isn't that already significant? Hell of a way to do this. So it's already being recognised what the law of the SDP, which is the law of the HNS, is. It is recognized, a little read the first article you already see. There's no way they're gonna raise their hands today and talk some time. They'll come Friday and vote only. And as for the financing of the centre here says of salaries and other fees based on the work of the employees, the tenants in the centre are accounted for the coefficients of the complexity of public service jobs. Who's gonna pay for that? That doesn't say. From the state budget most likely, but it doesn't say that money needs to be provided in the state budget. Either the cooperatives or the budget, there's no other way. You can't respect the coefficient and pay the wages without anyone paying the price. That's impossible. And about the relationship between the centre and the alliance clearly says the centre is a legal follower of the Croatian Cooperative Union, Article 8(4). And you can see how connected it is, until the appointment in article 25 of the Director of the Centre all tasks will be carried out by the President of the Croatian Association of Cooperatives. Well, isn't that already saying that the Croatian Union of Cooperatives is really just a replacement center? Because he's also a legal follower and the president of the alliance's business now the director of the center takes over. What, then, is the difference rather than selecting the president from the representatives of the cooperatives but to appoint him as the board of directors appointed by the minister? That's just the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80379	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80380	Thank you very much. Mr. Maric simply when you look at the logical sequence and the excess of your replica, you simply have no words. Although I was careless so I didn't read who it was, I saw him writing ministers, but I didn't know they were so exclusive to exclude the economy minister from this even though the cooperative was part of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. I wouldn't be so exclusive if I had a coalition, so we can figure out who it is, but it's just so much to be exclusive that it's so obvious when someone says it's transparent that you see exactly who it's going to be, so that's who I'm a little surprised and you've opened my eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80381	Second replica, the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80382	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you said in your 5 minutes that you thought that the amendments to this law should actually encourage the establishment of cooperatives, especially association because of the issue of the survival of small producers and you mentioned the milkers in the village of Petrovi as I understood it, but it is similar with my dairy farmers in the Imot region. However, what should have happened today instead of these amendments and the addition of the law, which is that we really should have analyzed the very situation of the cooperatives. We should have talked about their report, we should have talked about the European cooperative model to help them as much as possible. And I don't know if it makes sense for you that there are no amendments and additions to this law on the Croatian Union pages. I don't know what the minister or his resolute ministry is afraid of, but I'm guessing those co-operatives themselves. Which is paradoxical, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80383	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80384	Well, fellow Babic, there's no need to put that on the co-operative's pages. This thing is a clean matter, not to mention the technical matter that we've been discussing for 8 hours today, needlessly, who's going to be the director of the center and his deputy, who's going to be in the board. They just drew if there were going to be cars with heated seats like the Investment and Energy Centre or there wouldn't be cars with heated seats. Perhaps if the cooperatives were in the field and in agriculture, perhaps the type of jeeps should be determined in view of this, etc. Or to borrow from the police after the purchase of these 250 new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80385	The last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic said that we in this House of the High adherence to the laws that we have passed, we probably wouldn't be discussing this law for eight hours today. And you know why? We adopted the Fiscal Responsibility Act in the second month, although we have not received a single proposal legally from the government in accordance with this Fiscal Responsibility Act, because if that were the case, we would see how much the Minister should provide for the implementation of this law, then we would see that there are no HNS ministers. Well, then this party story would be quite clear. But a joke aside. So it's obvious that all this talk here, so this game of Minister Maras is going to put everything under his control, that it's going to be paid out of the budget. That's obvious. However, the easiest way to write in the law is not the means needed or the funds are secured in the budget. And in order not to write this, the fiscal responsibility law has been amended to make it clear to the explicit that whoever proposes the law has to write if he proposes some kind of release of how much less money in the budget, if he proposes some new tax on how much more money is in the budget and if he proposes some law then he simply has to write inside and describe how much it will cost. And since that's not how it's done then we now have a situation for the first four months that our budget expenditures have exceeded some 600, 700 million what was planned. Unfortunately, our incomes have failed. And all of this would be much clearer if we were to follow the Fiscal Responsibility Act. However, there is no minister and there is no law. Ask God how we're gonna do and what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80387	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80388	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you know, you've been Minister of Finance, but these things are obviously done in this government in secret. And then when they come out in the budget, then we see a budget breach on the spending side, and nothing costs. So what's the problem with writing that something requires money spending? There is no need to hide and no additional resources are needed in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. But here on the radio today, I'm listening to the eulogy, because I'm not going to say the extension of one piece of literature, how we got excellent loans of 3.8% interest of a billion and 250 million euros, right, 3.8% reportedly ex 4%. But it's public, and this thing that's in the budget, that needs money if it's going to be this, it's going to be secretly done, and then you have what you said, suddenly it appears minus where, how, who spent it. These laws that say they don't need money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80389	The final minutes of this debate belong to the deputy minister of entrepreneurship and crafts of the respected Drazen Pross. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, I thank you first of all for this and long-term but also constructive debate, but allow me perhaps once again, because we have also highlighted this in the opening presentation but also in the debate held today several times, and allow me, not in the form of the Viennas, nor in the form of basic school literature, but very specific. So we talked about the strategy, once again this law and these orientations of this law are in line with the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship, 2013-2020, one of the strategies that we are actually in this Croatian Parliament, about which you have brought esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs without votes against last year. Therefore, this strategy of entrepreneurship development involves cooperatives as a very important segment of a small economy entity and this law is in line with that strategy. We talked several times today about a special cooperative strategy in 2014-2020, which is being prepared at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. Today, in the opening presentation, I also presented some basic guidelines for this strategy. Of course, the number of constructive proposals that we have heard today, Special Representative Holly, will certainly be included in this strategy, i.e. there will also be public debates on the strategy. Today we also talked a little bit about withdrawing funds from the European Union funds. The fact is that through the centre, the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship, we can even withdraw 85% of the funds. Through the existing model of the Croatian Union cooperative we are 50%. The fact is also that when we talked today about that the cooperatives are not involved in the Croatian centre, they are involved in cooperative alliances. Once again, cooperative alliances continue their work in the present form, they are, therefore, the main associations of cooperatives towards activity and the region, and their primary purpose will be to further connect cooperatives and promote their networking and also that breakthrough on the world market, the European market with the help of just one operational, efficient community entrepreneurship centre. Funding, also again, I say again so the members of the Governing Council who, by the way, also according to the Government's amendments make up the chairman of the Management Council of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Trade, then representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Defence and the representative, so the employees of the Centre. The members of that board do not receive compensation for their work, so no one accepts it. The centre also has no other bodies than the board of directors. We talked about this drastic reduction in cooperatives, let's not forget that the amendments to the Cooperatives Act in 2011, in March 2011 the number of members of the cooperative founders was reduced from 3 to 7, so this drastic decline of cooperatives was related to eradicating these cooperatives or connecting these cooperatives. And maybe a few more words about one important segment, which are cooperatives made up of defenders. The cooperatives made up of defenders must, as well as all others, be in line with the Cooperatives Act, the specificities shall be resolved by the rules of each particular cooperative. The basis of the cooperative classification is, in fact, their activity towards the NKD, so that the concept of defence cooperatives is not a proper concept. However, defence cooperatives, which are around 38% of the total number of cooperatives, account for 10% of the cooperative employees, somewhere less than a quarter of the total number of cooperatives, account for less than 6% of the income in total. So, these defense cooperatives, there should be no fear that their rights will be respected by this. So, these amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act. In the final and administrative council, therefore, there is also a resolute ministry, the Ministry of Defence, which will be very concerned about the special interests and rights of the defenders. Here at the end I invite you once again to accept these amendments and additions to the Cooperative Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80391	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, but you did not look back on a single word, and today it has been warned several times that the last amendment to the law in the 9th month last year has been appointed by the ministry, which was responsible for calling the representative assembly and that it was obliged to do so by 20 April, no later than 20 April of this year, and that the commission did not do so, the cooperatives did not do so, it did not do so by the commission appointed by the ministry. That you haven't explained at all why and what the sanctions are on that commission, why the law is changing now, because your commission didn't work. That's what you're asking us to answer. You haven't referred to that in a single word. As for the use of European Union funds and funds, none happier than all of us to use as much as possible and to co-operate with the best they can. Of course, there's a lack of knowledge here, but also to help anyone, but if cooperatives use knowledge, grill and models of the Ministry of Regional Development, they'll have a good story, but they'll run out of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80393	I'm closing the debate. And now we stop working. The second and third points that are listed in your consolidated agenda we skip and tomorrow we discuss item number four, that's the final PROPOSAL OF THE MEASUREMENT LAW. It's 9:30. I thank you all. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80394	We are going to decide on the points of the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament. First is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperatives, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 665. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within the deadline, so they became an integral part of the final proposal for the amendments were also proposed by the Committee on Legislatives and Honored Representative Josip Djakic. I ask the proposing representative to make a statement on the amendments. Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship, Honored Drazen Pross. First of all, Legislative Committee, Amendment No 1 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80395	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80396	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 22
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80397	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80398	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 1 of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80399	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. Cooperatives are companies that operate according to the principles and values of cooperative society. Maybe it's good to do it again. The cooperative values are self-help, responsibility, democracy, equality, justice and solidarity, with moral values of honesty, openness, social responsibility and care for others. A principle of voluntary and open membership, supervision of business by members, economic participation of cooperatives and distributions, independence and independence, education, professional training, information of cooperative members, cooperation among cooperatives, community care. All these cooperative principles and cooperative values are the basis for the success of the cooperative model, but principles and values are not regulations but the heritage of cooperatives and cannot be sanctioned. In fact, so far, no cooperative has been sanctioned because of a breach of principle or value, which is proof of the inconsistencies of the existing legal provision. The intensity of these amendments is the addition of laws to ensure cooperative principles and promote cooperatives through the application of education in the cooperative system, and such and similar educations will be carried out by the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship established by this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80400	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80401	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, paragraph 4 of Article 2. The Cooperatives Act is extremely important because it determines violations of cooperative principles or values. The cooperative shall be based on the cooperative principles and values referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 2, and paragraph 3 of that Article shall determine the cooperatives' duties to comply with the cooperative principles in their work. Accordingly, cooperative principles and values are regulations and their violation constitutes a violation of this law which needs to be legally regulated. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80402	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 1st respected representative, Josip Djakic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80403	The amendment shall not be accepted, related to the interpretation of the previously unaccepted amendment. It is not true that this legal provision will tolerate the violation of this law and of other rules and of cooperative principles and values, and for exactly the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80404	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80405	Mr. President and Mr. Deputy Minister. Under Article 5, Article 43, which reads: the conduct contrary to this law and to other regulations and to the cooperative principles and values, it is inadmissible to tolerate the violation of this law and other rules and to the cooperative principles and values on which the cooperative is based, which are prescribed by this law, because such legal uncertainty leads to legal uncertainty, as well as to the threat of the viability of the cooperative as we know it in the Republic of Croatia. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80406	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 2 of the respected representative Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the respected representative Josip Djakic as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80407	The amendment is not accepted. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Cooperative law, not Article 51. The Cooperative Act, as incorrectly stated in the explanation of your amendment and Article 49, is clear. There is no need to further define or specify, as at the same time, it is possible for other forms of natural and legal persons to improve and promote cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80408	Amendment holder, respected representative Josip Djakic. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80409	Thank you very much. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. Since the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship coordinates and represents the interests of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other natural and legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives, it is necessary to define the type of activity of these natural and legal persons in order to avoid possible abuse of the centre and the means of working of the Centre for Particular Interests which have nothing to do with the interests of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and cooperatives as such. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80410	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 3rd Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the same honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80411	The amendment is not accepted. This law does not provide for the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship to create regulations and measures of economic, social and tax policies related to cooperatives. This is the role of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and all cooperatives, cooperative alliances, as well as the interested public through public debate and constant communication with the Ministry and Government have the opportunity to influence the creation of regulations and measures. The implementation of public debates and consultation of the professional public is a continuous job of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Trade and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the centre as well as the entire interested public is always welcome in relation to proposals on how to improve the cooperative system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80412	Thank you very much. I ask the respected representative, Josip Djakic, to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80413	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act do not provide for any possibility of cooperatives, cooperative alliances and other natural and legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives, in any way affecting the creation of regulations and measures of economic, social and tax policies relating to cooperatives, thus creating a danger that the centre is self-sustaining. So far, cooperatives and cooperative alliances and other natural and legal persons who adequately promote and promote cooperatives have been able to express their views and opinions through membership in the Croatian Association Assembly. In addition to this amendment, this huge deficit is trying to correct, but I can see that you don't understand. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80414	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 4th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the required majority, I'm assessing. Amendment number five of the same respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80415	The amendment is not accepted and the explanation is related to the previous reasons for not accepting the amendments. Indeed, already through the review of the activities in the responsibility of the Centre, which is covered by Article 9 of this Act and concerns the definition of the business which the centre conducts within its activities, it is obvious that the centre includes what the proposal for the work of the Expert Council and there is no need to form a new body that would play a role as mediators between the cooperatives themselves and the centre themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80416	I'd like an esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80417	Mr. President, with this amendment, an expert council is being arranged as the center's body. The purpose of the amendment is to prevent the possibility of decisions taken at the centre on cooperatives without any influence from cooperatives and cooperative alliances. Well that's the purpose that's been so far in a function that needs to be continued. In this way you really destroy cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia and do not allow it to have any influence on any decisions or even in the advisory body.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80418	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number of the 5th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number six of the same respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80419	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The proposed text in Article 19 of this Act is clear enough as it states that the funds for the operation and operation of the centre are provided from assets, fees for services, support, donations and other sources, which puts the emphasis on the source of income that the centre will achieve through its own operation by providing services on the market. The funds for the work of the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship, which has the status of public institutions, are secured in the state budget, which is in line with the proposed legal provisions. According to Article 8 The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cooperatives is defined as the status of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship as a Public Institution and is set to apply to salaries and other fees on the basis of the work of officials and directors of the Centre the Law on Public Service Payments and the Regulation on the titles of jobs and the coefficients of complexity of public service jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80420	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80421	So here is Mr. President, and in this amendment 6, we would like to make it clear that the provisions of Article 19 of the amendment and the addition of the Co-operation Act are in line with the Law on Institutions as the Deputy Minister and said, so it is necessary to supplement to prevent the possibility of abuse of the Centre as a public institution and the funds from the state budget that will be placed in them. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80422	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 6th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of the same respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80423	The amendment is not accepted, and the explanation is related to the explanation of the previously unaccepted amendments one and two. Once again cooperatives are companies that operate according to the principles and values of cooperatives, and principles and values are not regulations but the heritage of cooperatives and to cooperatives as well as other legal persons are already applied to all relevant supervisions of their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80424	An indication of the applicant, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Deputy, it's clearly defined by the law of what the values and principles of cooperative society are. You want to destroy them and put them out of force. You really want to put cooperatives in a different plan. What was set up in the Republic of Croatia and that went its own good way, which employed, worked, created competitiveness, united, today put out of force. You do not want to listen to any of the remarks that are intended and stemming from cooperatives. They asked and wrote it but you don't understand it, neither you nor your minister who certainly knows anything about co-operation or crafts or entrepreneurship. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-04-0.u80426	We'll give the vote, but it's a strange qualification. Please make your statement on Amendment No. The 7th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 77 votes in favour and 18 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and amendments to the Cooperatives Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
