ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80791	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I don't know how to include this in my Rules of Procedure, but I have decided to report on this subject until the government begins to comply with the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The basis of the Fiscal Responsibility Act adopted by this House states that the legislator in the draft law must provide an assessment and an assessment of the fiscal impact. Since here, when you look at how much of those 110 billion incomes are interest rates, the interest rate has a significant impact on the revenues of the state budget, but not only because of that, but if we pass the law then it would be good to stick to it. It's been 3.5 months since the law was passed. Unfortunately, we are still Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament getting suggestions as they always were, an assessment of the necessary funds. And when counterpart Lalovac, the current minister, then deputy minister and former minister explained the Fiscal Responsibility Act, they said that the provision is being awarded because those who propose the laws must present an assessment and an assessment of what it means in plus and minus for the state budget. We have the Interest Act today, it's proposed by the Resort Ministry, and unfortunately we don't have any evaluations and assessments of what it means for the state budget and not just for the state budget here and for the economy and all together. So I would ask you nicely, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the HDZ representative, I hope that other colleagues share such an opinion, that when the Government sends us a proposal or change the Law on Fiscal Responsibility or let the bill send it to us in accordance with the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. Thank you very much for giving me a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80792	Thank you, too. We will ask the government to keep the draft laws in line with the commitments it has made. Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Finance, Boris Lalovac, to state the motionant's position on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80793	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you, there is a proposal for a law on interest, so I will say briefly, although this law consists of 12 articles, which means what intensity the Government was and what the current situation is with interest in the economy, and also with interest on citizens, so we will see if this law will allow us to unload at least one part of the economy, but certainly one part of the burden of interest on citizens. The primary objective of this law was certainly to even the basis for the calculation of tight interest rates in the relationship between entrepreneurs because so far they were different foundations, and thus different rates were for entrepreneurs. The Law on Mandatory Liabilities of the Basics for the calculation of tight interest rates was an escontaneous rate, and the Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement where the Directive on late payment had to be added in these last amendments, in fact the basis was taken as a reference rate, since that directive also states that this must be a reference rate. Since the econtact rate in the Mandatory Relations Act was an unreal basis for the calculation of tight interest, and consequently also affected the permitted level of agreed interest rates, it is proposed that all relations introduce a reference rate as a basis for the calculation of the tight interest rate. What would be the reference rate? In fact, the reference interest rate in Europe, mainly in the countries of the European Monetary Union, means the areas that have the euro and actually the lowest rate... which they actually place when certain coins are placed on first-class banks and is currently at EU level 0.25%. We have said that here in this part of the econcentration rate does not have such a function as the European Central Bank's particularly rate, and, together with the CNB, it has tried to define what is the reference interest rate in Croatia and then it is based on the average interest rate on loans granted to non-financial companies over a period of more than a year. So it includes one weight of all currencies. The half-year period shall be determined and published by the CNB. It is currently 5.35% and a single basis has been chosen and it is one that does not only refer to loans to companies, as it is more relevant than the one that actually refers to the population. So all those who are currently placed at certain rates and loans and the population and companies take a certain weight as a reference interest rate. In addition to the long-term economic crisis, another significant objective has been imposed, and this is the need to reduce debt burdens for both entrepreneurs and citizens, and to enable faster and easier deleveraging. What is regulated by this law is certainly the highest permitted rate of agreed interest which is now limited to the level of legally tight interest rates in each individual relationship. The maximum allowable interest rate is then defined. So according to the current average rate, it is 12.35% for entrepreneurs. It was previously under the Law on Mandatory Relations, meaning the tightening interest rate between entrepreneurs was 15%. So these legal rates, so these changes make the legal tightening interest rate 12.35 and for non-relationships, the ratio between entrepreneurs is 11.35. It means reducing legal tight interest from 12 to 11.35. Entrepreneurs here remain a provision that entrepreneurs can negotiate between themselves and a higher interest rate. This we will see whether it is necessary to change until a certain second reading whether it will show in the debate whether this is a particular problem, because it was also a request in that part and entrepreneurs. It is certainly the principle of calculating the tight interest, so the formula has been taken over from the applicable interest law that is put out of effect. So that's when we look at it normally, that means what this law is about. However, I would briefly say a few things about what the current situation in the economy is, what the current situation is with citizens' debts, and whether this law will help, or at least one part to ease this burden of crisis, which, unfortunately, has been under a great burden for six years and recessions have also been found by businesses and citizens, so in this context we expect certain effects of facilitating the return of their debts. When we look at, for example, the debt or the amount of funds blocked or so on. some way that it is perceived in public as one form of liquidity, i.e. the amount of enforcement in the financial assets of entrepreneurs. He's somewhere on 31.5. 32.4 billion kuna. So these are the basics, so blocked funds for both legal persons and craftsmen, and when you see there are certain effects because in 9 months 2013, the amount of outstanding payment grounds reached a level of around 45 billion kuna, so here about 12 and a half to 13 billion kuna of the Financial Business Act is certainly one part reduced that part of the amount of blocked accounts. However, what is certainly worrying are actually citizens' debts, these are the debts of citizens who in the last year, or a year and a half, showed a very high takeoff, so at the 31.5. the amount of cash implementation for some 318 000 citizens is worth 27.1 billion kuna. And if you add this amount of 12 billion tight interest, you get the amount, the terrifying amount of which is actually burdened by citizens of about 40 billion kuna when you look at the principal and squeeze interest. And then there is a basic and elemental question about whether the legal system in the Republic of Croatia works, whether we have mechanisms that will help citizens try to find certain sources in the sixth year of recession in order to relieve debts. Do we even have instruments and whether the way they are currently set up and tightened interest rates and the way they calculate and the height of the tight interest and the way to close whether in these conditions I recently called them extraordinary conditions because for me they are. Because when I look at the figures exclusively, and the figures are alarming to me that all certain legal instruments are not allowed to be mixed by the Government, but it must be done by duty because this form of spiraling interest, especially tight interest, has simply proved that all the market mechanisms that have actually taught us in economic textbooks currently do not apply in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the amount of tight interest if we take and tighten the interest paid both by entrepreneurs and craftsmen, it means that both legal persons and craftsmen and citizens come to an amount of 24 billion kuna. So we're talking about 24 billion kunas of tight interest that have been made, so we're talking about accounts, blocked funds, and probably the amount of tight interest outside of those relationships that haven't yet been completed, or even more blocked. And if you add these 24 billion kunas of tight interest to the head of all entrepreneurs, craftsmen and citizens who total 60 billion kunas from these 24 billion kunas you get to 84 billion kuna. Extraordinary, extremely high and worrying amounts that say that simply the models by which we had in traditional, conventional methods simply don't apply anymore. As a result, in this Law on tight interest, as we have said, the contractual interest rate is changing from 18% to 12.35, and for those who do not have at least one person from 12 to 11.35, it is certainly also at a tight interest rate as we have said to change from 15 to 12.35 and 12, at 11.35, they are still very tight interest rates. If we look at the EU and when I say that their 0.15 is a reference interest rate and we have 5.35 minus this one percentage point, we have this reference interest rate 4.35, and when we add these minimum 8% then we get to those 12.35 points, or when it decreases further by this 1 percent up to 11.35. We are asking whether we are still, although with this law, affecting the reduction of the tight interest rate, we are still a very high amount of penalization, and we believe that certain other elements must be taken in these times of recession and certain parts of non-payment. But when we talk about Europe, their interest rates move somewhere around 8.15% and still in Croatia with this law that we are reducing to 12.35 and 11.35. So in this context we leave the question here on the other hand should we open up further discussions, is this formula that we've actually put in here to calculate a tight interest rate enough? Do you need to go further into reducing tight interest rates? Because it just showed that the high interest rate that existed does not mean that you will also charge your debts, or anything else in the model of non-functioning legal system to the amount of tight interest rates I told you to come 24 billion kuna. What is certainly worrying, I will also present here a few data on blocked citizens, because we think that this is just one of the legal regulations, one of the laws that should help citizens and it is asking whether to further upgrade this part of the model around a tight interest rate to tighten the interest rate should never really cross the principal's height because it actually tells you about a certain disturbance and that it is not natural to tighten the interest rate above the principal's. Or simply in models where your legal system doesn't work it's more profitable to actually get into various lawsuits and relationships because you have a bigger return than to actually produce and to work. Because when you produce and work, you can make 5 or 10% returns, if you sue someone, if you argue, if you have unresolved relationships, a tight interest rate is for you not to say interest rate and create 15% and simply demotize the entire system because you can't actually actually charge for it, but you can't even solve your relationships. When we look at citizens, it is relevant that 150 thousand Croatian citizens have spent up to 10 thousand kuna. They generate about 500 million kunas of unexploited payment grounds somewhere. But when you look deeper into the analysis of the problem of blocked citizens, you certainly see that there are over 2700 citizens who owe more than a million kunas and they generate over 13 billion kunas. So this is where we talk about the principal all the time. So it's just that all of these instruments that we've had and through the Executive Law, the executions on money, on movable property, simply shows that the creditors can't be charged, that simply the believers can't be charged and that those citizens who are in this problem simply can't get out of debt slavery, they just can't get out. And then when you add to that and tighten interest, the entire system is simply blocked. And then you have this model that actually interest from month to month is growing. There are more and more citizens who are top-up and simply can't legal or economic mechanism have yet found in the RH model how, in what way help citizens. How alarming the data is when you see the share of individual citizens living in certain territories blocked by their business accounts. So only in the City of Zagreb do you have about 57,000 citizens who have completed their jury and current account. So when we talk about some percentage, it's 7% of the citizens of the City of Zagreb. The second is Split somewhere with about 12 thousand, Rijeka about 10 thousand, Osijek 7, Sisak 4800, Zadar also 4800. So, when we look at the proportions of these citizens living in this area, we see that in some regions the number of blocked citizens is climbing above 10% of the citizens living in that particular territory. There is certainly a front of Čakovec and the Križevci who have over 10% of citizens living in the area, that they are actually under their means of money. All of this also points to the need to change the Law on a tight interest rate, and what will it ultimately continue to mean for citizens? You are primarily aware that the Consumer Credit Act states that we have limited a certain part of the interest to the maximum extent that an interest rate on residential loans and consumer loans can be agreed on and that the CNB calculates the average rate of the appropriations. When you see, it will also mean more to citizens in these parts of consumer credit, where the interest rate that we have said is an average weighted increase of one half and that of consumer loans in kunas, but also in euro, especially these non-intentional ones, is still moving up to 15%. By this law, since the legal tightening interest is an anchor that binds to the effective interest rate that we said we would limit interest rates especially this part of the consumer will decrease between 14% and 15% allowed by the Consumer Credit Act to decrease to 10.35%. So overruns over current citizens' accounts are currently about 11% of this law because you're not allowed to have interest greater than legally tight interest. In this particular case, the issue of reducing interest rates on bank loans will also be raised. I'm going to open another question here, and that's a question of a way, even though it's not regulated by this Law on tightened interest and a question of how to close the principal and close certain debts. If you see the situation as it is and what it is right now, that you have a very high amount of tight interest is the question that we can help citizens with. This is just one of the mechanisms of the interest law, where we can open the question of whether the Mandatory Relations Act still stands then clauses to close the costs first, and then tighten interest and only the last one is actually the principal. And according to such conventional methods may have been of value once, but we see that today in a time of crisis, six years of crisis these instruments can no longer be applicable, can we simply not get out of total debt slavery. I'm opening up here, and through this debate, I'd like to hear your opinion on whether it's necessary or possible for these in extraordinary situations, when we're talking about 27 billion majors and 12 billion citizens' interest, it's an extraordinary situation for me, and we're talking about 40 billion kunas. Whether or not in any way, this is just one of the first steps to help citizens, i.e. to close the principal first, and after the other costs and tighten interest. Why, why? So, for the simple reason, because it's a priority search, a priority search of a dear colleague and fellow MPs is a major, and it's not a tight interest and it's not a cost, it's not a cost and it's not a tight interest. So priority search is the main one. And how much does the system show you that someone can't even execute that principal and then you get a tight interest, and if someone even manages to pay you what's going to happen? It will happen that they will only close one part of the cost and close one part of the tight interest. They won't touch that principal at all. What happens next month? The amount of the tight interest, what this one has managed to pay him will return, and by the next month he won't even make it to the capital, he won't make it to the capital. And the models that we have now, and we have them like we did all the time in our textbooks, they're no longer worth it because in six years of recession, it's what we have here we can't solve them with the same instruments. And that's why we're going to open the question here whether or not, because these are extraordinary measures, and if it's necessary for a certain period of time until that part is resolved to set a way of closing certain debts. I'm going to raise a certain question here that this is just the first step in resolving citizens' debts. Certainly, as in many other countries, there is not only a personal bankruptcy in large debts, but in what way does it help citizens with small debts? The calculations that show for economic practice that much higher costs are, what Mr., the esteemed Mr. Shucker said, the effect of a certain regulation. Whether someone can calculate the impact of health and social costs, and unfortunately, and medicines, and the overall system of burdens, and social care, and the health system. When you have such large amounts of blocks, unhappy people who simply can't spend, they try to get by in different ways. The cost of health care systems normally must grow and unfortunately there are problems if we do not solve one instrument normally for you on another system, for you to be actually executed and paid on that or another system. I watched only certain research in far more developed countries than Croatia, Sweden, e.g. And in the UK that they've also set up, they've calculated what debt slavery means for citizens, what does that mean for consumption, what does that mean for the health system, what does that mean for the social system? That's billions and billions of euros, that's billions and billions of euros in the cost of society. And let's set up whether we are in this home as a legislator, with which instruments we can and must help the citizens? That we can no longer rely on those instruments that showed that they were bad. When they tell me that I don't believe in the market economy, I don't believe in that market economy that produced this, I don't believe it because we have to, and that's why it's the state, and that's why it needs to be a social state to actually help weaker citizens, and in this current debt, the weaker citizens. Or as far as we're talking about citizens, about 150 thousand of our fellow citizens who don't have 10 thousand kunas to unblock their accounts, then we're saying that we really have a fundamental problem, and what instruments we can and must solve. And that's why when the question opens, I pay the bills, and I don't want anyone who doesn't pay to help him is wrong, because simply no one has brought himself into this situation because he doesn't want to pay it, but simply the crisis, a six-year recession, simply a certain missed projects in the entrepreneurial, which happen in the past, in the future. But citizens can't stay on edge and actually wait for market mechanisms to regulate them. And that's why this is one of the laws, when they're said to be angry with banks, it's not true, this means to them that tomorrow, if they cut interest rates, they'll help the citizens to start paying them better. We're always looking at some opposite aspects, when he says, if you want to regulate the area, we're going to increase interest rates. They're scaring the citizens, no, and we can't let that happen, should we really not allow it in a way that, if you simply fear us, that if you regulate the help of the citizens that we're going to reflect it at higher interest rates, which is not right. Croatia recently borrowed on the most favourable terms, after 3.8%. And that is why we have entered the European Union, to pay more favourably, so that our citizens can get the terms of the Austrian citizens, the Italians, as they get German. That's why we entered the European Union, but that's why, that citizens can actually start coming back a little bit into consumption models but life models, isn't this life, this isn't life when they owe us 40 billion kuna and they expect us to help them. And that's why we have to go through all the instruments, and that's why I want to hear here through this debate what all models can and are welcome here, you know that I'm in, at least until now, and in the future very carefully, listening to your discussions, but this is the law where I don't think there should be oppositions and positions to work together because this will welcome, no matter what future government we have been, this will wait for this to be resolved and therefore I appeal to you that, in a constructive debate, the unrelated opposition is given proposals and that we contribute together to the citizens first to say, they have passed a law that is important to us and they are unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80794	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80795	Thank you. I'm going to stay on this basic one, and that's Article 5. It's just not good that things that are defined by some other laws and clearly know how to build some laws when things get too crazy, then it's not good. So, I don't see any point in Article 2 and 3 being in this law because this is the most basic interest account to be taught in the first grade of high school and, therefore, in Article 5 of the law, it's enough to say the way interest is calculated, and I think the first grade student knows, economically, that when interest is in a few months to then count on 365 or 366 days and how it already goes, so it shouldn't stand here. However, I'm always afraid that when we're supposed to try to make order and help someone, then, unfortunately, if they're not well calculated and evaluated, all things considered are a mess. Because it's one thing to run social policy and what I stood for and while I was a minister and I'm also going to stand up for myself as a parliamentary representative, bringing social policy must be seen through the budget on the expenditure side. No quasi cuts either way because that leads us to what no one wants, which is that social policy is used by those who simply don't belong. And I'd like to say that it's a process that's constantly going on, it's not a process that's never going to say today we've done it and it's over, so it's just changing according to the situation, etc., and this thing about calculating interest and billing, I don't think it's really supposed to run around and go with its throat in strawberries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80796	Thank you very much. The minister's answer. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, why is it necessary to be Article 5, and that's how it's defined? It is precisely because of different interpretations and different practices, precisely because it has shown the economy and practice that in different interpretations and the court that different interest calculations come, that different basics come, that different interpretations come, and what is actually our proposal is to place certain software or on the website of the Ministry of Finance or FINA where citizens will be able to calculate themselves and in a very clear and transparent way to mean what the interest account is. Because practice has shown that you calculate something from 1990 to today, I will find you here 10 people who will bring you different calculations and therefore this article is very important, that it stands inside, although it is simple and it should be. You said this law was a mess, so I showed you the figures of what a mess the current government is, and if what we have now is a mess, and by this law we will certainly set very clearly and transparently how interest is calculated, who accounts for interest and how relations are placed not only between entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs but also entrepreneurs and citizens. A citizen must know how to calculate and when he is in a dispute that he can calculate. So, I don't want to talk about a mess, so we're talking about a law that's simple, which must be understood by all citizens and in every relationship how they can be protected, and that these elements are being placed if we're talking about a tight interest, exactly the way that there is now, that someone first closes the tight interest, someone first closes the principal, someone first closes all the different costs. You have a case that you have a different application in practice and if we put it simply and in a simple way we say we have a problem, and also in the tax office, citizens want to pay certain taxes, but it can never reach the principal. He simply got in trouble and closed the interest, and then the principal, or sometimes he didn't get to the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80798	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Another replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80799	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I understand the motives and reasons why you approached the draft law because the situation is unsustainable and unsustainable, but when you said it was a tight interest spiral, I would not agree with you literally. It is not a spiral, it is a noose with a firmly bound knot around the Croatian man and around the Croatian economy. You also said that the economy teaches us many things, unfortunately economic textbooks have taught many things wrong and taught us today wrong. The most fundamental economic legality that was not written by nature, but man falls for the most elementary empirical checks. Well, this is also proof that the market economy has actually shown all its weaknesses and that it is not only regulatory and that the state should intervene there when they show up missing, defects and failures. But it can't, when you say 24 billion tight interest payments are charged, I'm interested in if you have the data, of the 56 billion kuna minus on current accounts, how much from 2000 to today is paid by the tight interest on those current account minuses? That would be an interesting piece of information. And it's interesting that the largest number of those who are not working in the minus and have been fired, without employment they have no chance of paying off either a tight interest or a major. And why, when are we going to solve this problem? Only when we clearly recognise, recognize and act against... associations and... contracts that exist in these areas, which are the most prominent in the financial sector, in the distribution sector and in the telecommunications sector. Until we decide not to strike... the merger will not be a good luck for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80800	Thank you. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80801	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's a thank you. This wasn't a replica, this was the consensus we expect today in this House to find a solution and that if there are certain misunderstandings to solve them, but certainly to talk about these issues because these are citizens' life issues and I see that we could have a constructive debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80802	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, speaking of this law that might help someone, you said that we are in debt slavery, and that the reasons for it are certainly the generators of the debt that means it's certainly not just entrepreneurs and craftsmen and ordinary citizens and not the banks that have created such over-interests. The state has been one of the leading generators for a long time now. I will only say about the segments of education and health care, when a year is not paid for the obligations defined by law on the recovery of the health system, and twice as many debts are produced, then it is something that is inadmissible than should be sanctioned legally. Equally in school, if they do not pay obligations for the transport of pupils in secondary schools, so these carriers have to close their companies because there is no one to pay them, they have to come into slavery, they have to pay interest, they have to pay heavy interest on those debts or loans in banks through which they have to pay. These are all segments in which the state participates, so the state must put itself in line first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80804	Replication response, Honored Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80805	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I must say, I agree with you, too, that you have seen that we have requested payment deadlines for all institutions and ministries, and very soon we will come out with the amounts set to see how the state or the pay or does not pay in time. You know that last year we paid 3.3 billion in healthcare, and we also paid a certain portion of the county hospital in this part of it a billion kuna. Health is the most sensitive and most difficult problem, I will not say the problem, not the problem, but the way the debts end. That was certainly a challenge for the past and certainly also for this government, and for these others who should be executed for them, I certainly agree that there is no justification. However, health care is in another form and certainly certain enforcement of health obligations should be carried out in a given order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80806	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the presidents, representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee, wish to present reports on this bill? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now up to the Club of Independent Lists and Honorable Representative Damir Kajin, along with representative Grubisic Ivano.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80807	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, this is a good law, but this is just the first reading. So I should get it straightaway as soon as possible according to the second reading. If Croatia is in an extraordinary situation as the minister said, then it should clearly follow "and extraordinary measures". Tight interest, as conceived by Croatian banks, is indeed turned into interest rates. Before we heard that the minister said that the reference interest rate in Europe is 0.15%, in Croatia 5.35% and by this law 4.35% respectively, that the tightening interest in Europe is 8.15%, with us 12.35 more precisely now will be 11.35% and should normally go down and with these tight interest rates. But what else is there to say? Chances today are not what they were before the crisis began, so we have a situation that out of 33 active savings banks in the Republic of Croatia, a dozen are currently operating negatively. The fact is also that the bank's profits are reduced to the least possible measure. For example. Only one Croatian company I mean here on THT earns double the profits of all Croatian banks together. The Croatian state rescheduled 1990s Croatian banks with several tens of billions of kuna, selling them for 5, 6 or 7 billion kuna. At 2, 3 years of age, the bank's profits have exceeded its payment. If we add that Croatian banks are owned by half of Croatia, then we have or turn out that through the privatisation of these banks on the one hand, we may have freed the state from the recovery of these banks that were constantly present until the end of the 1990s, but that on the other hand, the banks that carried on the other side the most valuable thing that Croatia simply has. As the finance minister said recently at a meeting, he reiterated it here more or less, arguing that the debts of citizens and businesses in the right sense exploded so that the state must protect them as well as logically protect them in order to get out of debt slavery. Visiting this I think it was at the Business Week he said about or pointed out that the total amount of enforcement over legal persons, craftsmen, citizens reached 59.6 billion kuna of that 32.4 billion waste on legal persons and craftsmen, 27.1 billion per citizen. That's what the other 24.2 billion kuna interest is charged to. We are as a nation, as a country, however, I dare say in serious problems, not to dare say but it is little to say in serious problems and we clearly have to do something about it. If banks are owned by foreigners, then I guess interest in Croatia should be about the same as in Italy, Austria or France. It is also clear that in Croatia about 15% of credits are not returned and that is one serious problem that speaks most of all not of people but of the opportunities in which our country is located. Secondly, I also want to say that it may be slower than we want this law to go into effect for companies with a tight interest drop to 12.35%. It is, and at this point these tight interest rates have reached as much as 18% of our companies. And if it's not interest, then I don't know what interest is. It is also true that I said that almost every seventh loan in this country is non-refundable. On the other hand, I said that the bank's been winning for the past few years is record low. But what really needs to be expected is that the Ministry of Finance will go one step further from the proposed law. And that it is likely to prepare for the second assembly reading to change the order of payments and the code of conduct. According to the current decision of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the cost of the procedure is first charged, then the interest goes, and only in the end comes the principal. The debt of companies and citizens, so I said just before it grew to 60 billion kuna. But that's how 24 billion kunas of tight interest should be added. The new legislative intervention should stipulate that the principal is first paid out and only when the debt is paid in order would the costs of the executive procedure then interest, etc. In one word, I think it's time to actually approach the solution to these problems in such a way. I will not say that we have succeeded or that the government has managed to resolve the problem of Swiss people, but this obligation has made as much tolerable as it is to pay when it comes to many citizens who have simply tried to resolve their existence by buying an apartment or a house. Normally, this was settled through that Consumer Loans Act or Consumer Credits Act. The fact is that Croatia did not have a banking crisis as the European Union did. We did not, through the budget, resuscitate banks as was the case in this country in the late 1990s or '90s, but we still have to admit that a huge price was paid primarily by citizens and our entrepreneurs. Denmark, for example, is. Just to say it even 80% of a year's gross social product has been set aside to resuscitate their banks. We were lucky to have not been able to get rid of that bank with a single kuna. I repeat the Croatian or all Croatian banks' profits in 2013 were about half compared to THT's profits. It's almost amazing, but it's just like that. And then a man asks himself a question so who was in the interest of privatizing THT seems to me for about 2 billion kuna and the annual profit of that company is about 2.5 billion kuna. The one who simply did it to the Croatian state and should be excommunicated I would say from this community. Banks all these years I dare say they didn't care too much about the fate of Croatian citizens. I read that this government respects the neoliberal policy which the Swiss law defuses but also denies this bill in the first reading. What is also important, however, are the bonuses of bankers that began to grow after Croatia entered the years of crisis. So in the first year of the crisis in 2008, the largest Croatian bank then paid 60 million kuna to its leaders. The following year when Sanader was here in the assembly or wherever he cried out that we were in bananas, that bank paid 57 million kuna to get the next 2010 executives of the largest Croatian bank to receive 67 million kuna bonuses. The next year 2011 for Croatia is becoming even worse, but Croatia's largest bank pays as much as 73 million kuna for salaries, bonuses, etc. While in 2012, it's already jumped to about 80 million kuna. In total, from the outbreak of the crisis to the present day, only this bank, gentlemen, has paid the managers 337 million kunas according to the annual financial reports they themselves are carrying out. Members of what I know, those vulnerable, as I would say, minorities have earned just over five million kunas, when I say vulnerable, normally I try to be cynical on the head in just a bonus in these five years. If we add profits or paid bonuses to several other major Croatian banks, it turns out that only on salaries, bonuses, to life, to pension insurance and other benefits that these vulnerable groups receive, more than 838 million kuna have been paid since the crisis started and here. From the beginning of the crisis and that is to say, only on the bank's interest has raised 42 billion kuna. That's about 1/3 of our budget. I repeat, all the banks were bought for maybe six or seven billion kuna, maybe Mr. Maric here will fix me, maybe even less, and I'd like to get this information right, and they've been sharing 42 billion kuna since the start of the crisis, and that just means interest. And now what are we supposed to do? We are aware that without a stable banking system, there is no economic stability. We're all aware that the key to stability is also banks. Our banks are now as full as a bat, but the problem is at this very economic moment that 80% of Croatian citizens at this point have no intention of raising credit in the bank, which will say that neither personal nor public, I do not know what consumption will not grow, which also testifies that nothing will happen in this matter when it comes to the country's economic substrate as a whole. It clearly says it's not working, it's not working, it's not believing the moment, but these bonuses are what banks should give up. I know they're not giving up bonuses in the West either, but I think there's room at this point not only for this law but for further interest cuts. The minister said earlier that we had entered Europe, that we had now received a bill interest from Europe for these last bonds, as much as a billion dollars or a billion euros, at 3.8%. And yes, it is the lowest in general that the Republic of Croatia has used, but I assure you that Europe has received much, much more from this kind of Croatia. Here I mentioned the privatisation of banks for these 5, 6, 7 billion kunas, I mentioned Croatian T-HT where the profit is normally transferred to Germany or let alone, they got the Croatian market and not to list everything else. We may get something from Europe someday, but for now I dare say that Europe gets much more from Croatia than we get from that Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80808	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80809	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, since you've called me, then I'll tell you exactly. All banks in Croatia have been sold for 5 billion and 395 million kuna. So it's not 6 or 7 but 5.4 billion kuna. And the one you talked about the most and where these managers received 350 million kuna bonuses from that bank, which is the biggest and the most lipe not received by the Republic of Croatia. Even today, you don't even know who's in the congregation who's the real owner. And when you talk about managers, they'd answer you, and we'd earn it all on hard work, and I'd ask, exactly, just whose, not theirs. When you say we've got rid of any new bank recoverys and government costs, we haven't, because the state still guarantees almost all savings in all banks. So also the collapse of the Rijeka Bank, the collapse of the Credo Bank, the Center of the Bank was largely at the expense of the state budget. But one thing, I'll also use Mr. Secretary for one suggestion. The reference rate shall be defined in Article 2. So I'm saying that something is reference, and that there's a need to shrink by 1% then it's not reference because it doesn't know why to reduce the reference by exactly 1%, and then we need to add another 8 points in order to get a tight interest. Then, Mr. Minister, it can't be a reference in any way until we've established that we have to cut it by 1 percentage point. The only reference would be Eurolibor, and the econcentrate in Croatia is not a reference rate at all, but a fig leaf. So we give in to the reference rate, not to the fictional rate, not... but to the Euroliber.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80810	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80811	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Minister. By listening carefully to the minister in explaining this law, he has cited a large number of reasons for his passing... questions because indeed the level of debts, blocked accounts not only of citizens but also of entrepreneurs, is now a social issue. It is a financial issue or a financial market issue, and I would also say the issue of the financial sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, I recall that after the recovery and recovery of the Croatian Post Bank, the only large bank owned by the Republic of Croatia must obviously be changed to its head because it too under the current administration could not be sold and must be sold. In public, there have been opportunities these days to hear a large number of advocates of this interest law, as well as opponents of the law, and opponents often come from the financial sector. They say we must have freedom in the financial sector, and that interest is one of the consequences of market legality in the money market, finance. And it would all be good and acceptable if it didn't, and I hope we finally learned that there is one great error, that the correctness of the market law, or market regulation alone, is one of the biggest delusions they have inherited. Unfortunately, many people still fall for it today. And that those who were trying to see what was happening realized that there were so-called. the destructive powers of market legality which are defended by two basic requirements as little as possible, so the greater the deregulation of the financial market, and they called it the weaker the government, the weaker the influence of the executive or the legislative authorities over them. And as counterpart Maric says, the textbooks have learned many things wrongly from the data that we have the opportunity to hear today prove that these textbooks and those rules of the absolutely free market economy simply do not play, do not apply in a state that defines itself and the Constitution as social. They also say that a strong and stable financial sector in itself means a stable economy, an economy in development and investment. "Croatia has a stable financial system, stable banks, investment funds, and entrepreneurs and citizens are in debt slavery." This is a quote from Mr. Secretary's introduction. Mr. Minister, you are the first member of the government to have the courage to say that citizens in debt slavery and entrepreneurs in debt slavery, because until now such claims and statements in the Croatian Parliament and politics have been identified as populism. But the figures you've given, and I'd like you to ask that for the second reading they be an integral part of the description of the situation. Thank you for some new data, but the ones I had a chance to track until a month ago, a month and a half ago, the amount of blocked citizens' debts was 25.6 billion, and all legal entities were 25.7 billion. There's practically been an evening of that debt. Today, the minister said that today the debt is 60 billion when legal persons are summed up, entrepreneurs are sorry with citizens and that the interest is tightened somewhere around 24 billion to that amount. That's if I'm not wrong about half the total savings in Croatian banks. So blocked obligations of citizens and entrepreneurs crossed 50% of savings in the Republic of Croatia. The interest regular and tight in the total mass of regular and tight in the total mass of the blockade is slightly below 50%, 47 came. Of the 313,000, of the 318000 citizens in the blockade, about 267 000 have a blockade of up to 100,000 kuna commitments. So it's a large number of citizens who didn't go into debt slavery by being in debt, who didn't buy expensive property, so that's why I'm not talking about the few thousand over a million. I'm talking about a 270 thousand family that's in trouble up to 100,000 kuna. It's a social issue, a social problem, a social aspect. In my view, it was also due to the variable interest rate that banks are entitled to due to both the foreign exchange clause and the enormously high interest rate that went up to 18% and the costs that the bank calls the processing, processing, the cost of processing credits, the costs of one, the other, the third so that often these costs affected the inability. The aim of this law is to first introduce a maximum tightened interest rate of 12.35 at this time for entrepreneurs, i.e. 11,35 for citizens, thereby maximising the overall maximum agreed rate, the interest rate on loans which cannot be higher than that tightened. And if it's not agreed, then the tight interest by law is half the legal rate of tightening interest. The basis of the calculation is the reference rate published, calculated and published by the Croatian National Bank. And we all mention the problem of debt slavery, interest savagery, banks, citizens and entrepreneurs, but not the Croatian People's Bank, which in this country teaches all lessons especially the governor and this and now, which every day, gives every week lessons. But for every problem that arises especially in the financial market, they say it is not their area of action. The reference rate should be calculated and calculated on credit ratings for more than one year, so minus one, plus eight, or eight or seven percentage points. There's really... the methodology for calculating the reference rate because the maximum number of interest is agreed with a variable interest rate, which means that in the ordinary variable interest rate, the bank is an anti-inflation rate, they have the possibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this the happiest solution and why is there such a high interest rate in Croatia? A major success was achieved by the Croatian state with a global capital market of 3.8%. That's if I'm not mistaken for my lowest duty. How much would the bank's interest rate in Croatia charge the state to be in debt on the domestic market? At least 5%, at least 6%. So Croatia is in debt outside with 3.8 and on the domestic market and the same banks that have been sold for a tenth of their value have twice the interest. And that's not all. 3.3 billion euros in 6 years of profits were exported abroad from these same banks, and 12 billion euros in CNB have foreign reserves in Europe, most in Germany, with 0.8 to 1.2% of interest. So, on the foreign reserve, which is not the foreign reserve of the CNB because it did not create these foreign exchange reserves but citizens and entrepreneurs, we get interest 0.8 to 1.2, and when the Croatian state is in charge of 3.8, it is an extremely low interest debt. And these are the same banks in Croatia that credit their entrepreneurs in Austria, Italy and Germany with an interest rate of 1.8 to 2.2%. And the attempt to limit legal tight interest rates in Croatia to 12.35 beware of the state's harsh interference in the freedom of the financial sector. And at the end of three suggestions. I believe that no legal regulation defining interest regulation will give full effect and come to the results presented by the minister so long as there is a permit for the foreign exchange clause on domestic credit ratings. And so long as all foreign exchange loans by force of the law don't turn into a national kuna currency. There will be no effect, use so long as the exchange clause is allowed on domestic credit ratings. Look at Hungary, we are all surprised why they have a GDP growth of 3.5%, in the order of the Hungarian Government's actions, it was in the first place and was not afraid of either the European Commission or the IMF. Secondly, the Law on Mandatory Relations must be changed urgently, and in the case of deleveraging, the debtor is due first for the principal, and then for expenses and interest. Because otherwise 90% of these debtors, as long as they're alive, won't be able to even pay off the principal, but they'll always pay off the expenses and interest they're going to raise from month to month because the new interest is counting on an intact, not a reduced principal. And that's why the share of interest in that total debt is so high. He pays one month a thousand kuna, due a tight interest, interest on a regular basis, as stated in the contract, is further accounted for on the principal which is not reduced by any lime. Third, why would a tight interest be allowed maximum reference plus 8 or reference rate plus 7? Isn't it high enough to be a dirty enough reference road 2 maximum? Is someone gonna tell me about the big inflation or the interest growth? What about the interest? Yes, it would be less than it was proposed at this point if this rule applied. I suggested one of the models, maybe these numbers 8 and 7 can be replaced by smaller numbers. And I'm finishing my proposal next, if we had exactly who consolidated the bank and made it not only of the insolvency but of the success of being able to answer the question why this management, this administration is no longer good for the Croatian government, it needs new people to come to it? Or is it about what counterpart Maric said about a financial cartel that doesn't answer that there is a Croatian bank that disturbs their peace at the freedom to create and expand debt slavery to the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80812	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Frano Matušić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80813	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Lesar, on several occasions, mentioned to the H.P.B. in light of the fact that it is obvious that it is necessary to change the person of the head and set up a friend of the prime minister to make the bank go for sale. It really raises the question of who is in the interest of weakening the position of the Republic of Croatia and actually taking one instrument that could affect interest policy in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the HPB was strengthened after you said it was successfully consolidated and businessed with profits and is the only really recognizable national bank, the Croatian bank in the Republic of Croatia. The question is, who does the sale of such a bank suit? It is simply unacceptable and I think that everything should be done to stop the sale because it can indeed be an instrument for reducing interest rates in the Republic of Croatia, such as the Deute bank in Germany where it is also the owner of Germany. I think it's high time we really put things in place in a way to strengthen actually the Croatian Post Bank. Why don't we empower her with, say, a state budget, or institutions, state institutions that function clearly through some other banks, why not local budgets, why not with utility companies, why not? Of course, it is also a market game in the Republic of Croatia, but we do not see any reason why this competition really should be played in the right way, in this case the Croatian Post Bank, which could indeed be a strong instrument in interest policy. Of course, that you have a bank that carries 20% of the financial market, of course you can influence the interest rate in the Republic of Croatia and entrepreneurs and citizens because through such a bank that is state-owned, of course it is possible, and more clearly and more powerfully to implement interest policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80814	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80815	I am not going to enter who is a friend and who is associated with whom, but I will repeat and openly say the shift of the management staff in the Croatian Post Office is the consequence of the influence of the secret banking foreign cartel in the Republic of Croatia in order to weaken what has been resuscitated, repaired, made relevant on the financial market of Croatia, and this is the Croatian Post Bank because until 3 years ago it was taken as an example that the state cannot be a good master, manage the banks well. Now that a team has arrived who has proved that a state bank can be successful and good, now shifts, rotations, roschades are being held in the wake of the end of the mandate without debate on the results of the publication of reasons and facts. And obviously, given that the new candidates are coming precisely on the proposal of this secret banking cartel, it is only the first step towards moving the only Croatian relevant financial institution from the market to foreign banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80816	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives, the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Ivan Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues every legislative proposal that offers some sort of tape of assistance to the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens is worth the attention and should be thought of, and should be supported, but also when we talk about this together, there is a lot of non-critical debates. Nothing happened by accident and nothing happened by accident. So, we don't need to go 20 years back, we can go 12, 13 years when in Croatia it was practically impossible to get a loan, when there was no woodworking, there was nothing and then there was about 2002,2003, we began to era of sharing, selling goods of financial institutions, and we can say at that time, so called time sometime by 2008 time of historically low interest rates. And that, both entrepreneurs and so on, has practically lured citizens into a loan arrangement. No one thought back then how tight the interest would be. Why? Because economic growth was 5.6%, unemployment decreased annually by 2.3 of the denomination index, so everything simply went well. Croatia has practically taken a turn in its negotiations for entry into the European Union and no one has looked at the item of tight interest and some have abused it. To be clear, there is no issue of tight interest, the topic discussed today, it has always been discussed, and it has always been problematic. At some point, therefore, that tight interest was, so she is also a criminal today, some height was calculated that she would have to be something above the interest rate for non-intentional credit because the logical thing is that someone would not go to take credit if his interest was higher, it was a logic at times when everything was okay, when it was, therefore, relatively good wages, could get a relatively cheap loan and then the economic crisis came. And when you look at the situation around, and that's what might one day be without political dimensions, because simply this topic doesn't deserve, nor should it be a political issue, but unfortunately we pushed it into a totally political topic. Perhaps one day the Croatian National Bank will also announce that from 2009 to today the number of poorer loans in business banks has increased. First we have to start, then we'll go back to the state. So you'll see what used to be first-class has suddenly turned into something that's very risky, and it's not chargeable and it's put the banks at risk. The same story is with both the state and the collection of state claims. On the one hand, the state and state-owned companies were unable to settle their obligations, and on the other hand, the problem with the collection of state claims began to increase. And when we talk about this interest rate today, and I don't want this to be understood populistly right now, but if we want to talk about trying to help someone, we want to force banks to do something, so the state can cut its tight interest rate to its unpaid incomes. Why wouldn't the state say that this tight interest rate is 7% or 8%? If we say that the banks don't want something, they don't want it as long as they have space, at the time they don't have space, when their capital adequateness and their risk placements grow, then they'll start thinking differently. There's no finance minister from any political option who hasn't fought a war with them. And about borrowing the state, and about any action, 5 always happens, 6th you plant your leg and let's start over and that's something that's a fact. The fact that we can't escape from, the fact that in this Viskom home, we should certainly bear in mind. Because they are not time for political bickering, it is time to plant their backs and for this economy to try to pull itself out to the inert of what is happening in our environment and Croatia can very easily reach economic growth, very easily. But by sending negative messages as they unfortunately transmit from our government, we don't use that inert that's happening in the environment in which we live. We don't use it. We're lucky with a minus 0.4% and something. It is simply something that is not what Croatia has and what Croatia should have. And why am I saying this all together? Well, because this interest rate is the result of all this together. The reference rate is, in principle, the capital price at which the State is in debt and at which the entrepreneurs are in charge. We say the state is in charge of 3.8, great. No one is unhappy about it, though, but the question is, how much do our competitors owe? That's the key question. So we're part of a single market that's been punished so far that we have a high interest rate because we say you're a risky country. Okay, now we're part of that market, so we're no more risky than Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, etc., Hungary, we're no more risky, Romania, Bulgaria, I can even count. Why is that risk coefficient or whatever we want to call Croatia still 1.5 the smallest... bigger than those countries? And that's the key question, colleagues and colleagues. And this is a question of which there is no SDP, HDZ, Labourist, HNS, etc., it is a Croatian issue. Why is someone punishing us? Why? I listened to that when I was a minister. Yes, you have a rate because investors in America have told us, and why this coefficient is so high in proportion to you, you stand better than some EU members. This was in autumn 2009 and 2010. But today we have 3.8, someone has 2.5. And it automatically raises us that tight interest because look, for banks and Leasing companies, money is nothing more than the goods they want to sell. And they come up with all sorts of ways to attract you to buy that stuff. And they come up with all sorts of ways not to think about that tight interest at all. Unfortunately. See only how much Croatia had to sell cars in 2006, 2007, 2008. It was all lying society, it wasn't buying for cash. They didn't have Croats 150, 200 thousand kuna to single out for the car. How many small Croatia bought ships since '95. on this? From 100,000 euros to further. So it's all about offering some cheap capital, and today we have a problem with what Mr. Minister was saying, the big boss, the big, tight interest. So if we want to do something, let's now suggest that first in the country when the debt is paid, actually when it's paid to reduce the principal, and to tighten interest, it stays at the level and then when the principal is reduced, then it's going to pay off and squeeze interest. Let's do it in the state first, then let the banks do it. And they're gonna have to make the market work. Well, they're not Croats, so forgive my expression, you fools that they won't go across the border and charge themselves tomorrow... in some other way somewhere else. The banks will have to start thinking differently in half a year or a year. They think this way in a moment because economic activity is at zero, it simply stopped, but at the moment when it comes to life, when space opens up for people because we are in the financial market community, practically in all these 27 countries we can go and take in debt. And it'll just make us think differently. But I'm saying, it's the state that has to do something. However, I would like to say one more thing. The citizens did not go down on the current, first and foremost on the current and on the cards because it was their whim, because they are prone to great consumption. My colleagues and colleagues, a year ago and a few days ago the price of electricity, gas and heating went over 30% up, and all of you who either live in private homes or live in an apartment are aware of the fact that the bills for the first and third months of this year, I do not remember that winter was this hot, are bigger than last year when Croatia hit snowstorm in the first and second months. So how can that happen? But you don't raise the formal price of gas, you change the way you calculate, and then suddenly you don't have that blue smoke anymore than you have redish yellow, etc. And you pay for what you pay for. But very interesting that HEP shows a billion-and-a-half kuna profit. Now there's one question to ask, was it more important for us in this situation that HEP will make a billion-dollar profit that it doesn't invest anywhere and will unfortunately invest it for the next year anywhere, but these billions and a half kuna are taken out of the pockets of Croatian citizens. We had the same situation on 01.07.2010, a proposal came to the government to raise energy prices 20%. The finance ministry then halted the proposal for the simple reason that the hydroyear was such that it was obvious that so much cheapest electricity would be produced in the Republic of Croatia that there was simply no need to raise that price, let's see what happens in three or four months. And we took a billion and a half from Croatian citizens, and now I'm asking you, colleagues and colleagues, how many of those billions and a half unfortunately ended up in these blockades? Either they're in charge, they're gone minus on the current, or they're paying the electricity bill. 'Cause if you don't pay your bill for electricity, you'll get your electricity knocked out, there's no mercy there. So these are all the things that are just around us, that happen and when I said I didn't say Mr. Minister you misunderstood me that this law would make a mess. I said if things don't clearly define that then out of trying to make order unfortunately a mess can happen. Is it at a time when interest is tightened by natural persons from 14 to 10.35 and legal persons from 17 to 11.35 is it crucial that they be helped at this time? It may be, but given the mass of debt, given the structure, we are primarily talking about the shareholders of their capital, their balance sheet where practically 90% of them are unable to borrow, unfortunately, it won't help them much. I said the HDZ Club is ready for any law that will help either Croatian citizens or the Croatian economy, so it is not disputed. I don't think there's any reason to be a different tightening interest on legal and physical persons, and that's why we're going to give the amendment that we suggest that this tightening interest rate be the same, and we suggest to the government that the state reduces its claims to 7.8% and so send them to banks, so let the banks play. They can say whatever they want about the market, but I said they sell goods, it's goods. If you're not going to go to shopping chains and you're not buying goods for a month on 31st, 32nd day you'll see a big commercial discount because you haven't bought their goods, it's failing them. So the banks, for two years now, very little of these goods will have to be sold and they will have to think. The other thing, what I said was that the European Community market is opening up, she's gonna have to think that some committees don't go to someone else because if I take my deposit, I go to some other business bank and my 100, 200 or 300 salaries don't go through that bank, they're going through some other bank, and they're going to imagine it. Maybe that's why the state was supposed to do it in these times of crisis so that all salaries and pensions go through the post office bank and have an account wherever they want. No one's stopping me from having an account in a business bank as much as I want, but the state's gonna pay me a salary through the Post Office, maybe that's how they'd be forced to behave differently. But I think it's a common game, and it's all of us's interest to try to get out of this together game. Some joint games play with open arms and open hearts, and some play with figs in their pockets. I repeat, and this is something that I simply think is true, the Ministry of Finance as a house has always had great opponents in them, the question of how the Central Bank behaves in this whole story, how many of its options are. And that's the same thing to open the question because Croatia must not afford a 7th year recession. We must capitalise EU entry. My colleagues and colleagues, we lost capital in the early 1990s, after this crisis, there will be another capital village. If Croatia is unprepared, it is a historic tragedy for Croatia and a historical tragedy for our children because again those who should invest in Croatia will go somewhere else and will miss us. In the 1990s, they were prevented by war, and at this point, there is simply no one to stop these investors and stay in Croatia and do something, and then we will not discuss such topics, but we will discuss some other topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80818	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80819	I'm glad that you recognized the good things in this law and that you said yourself that this law should be supported. When you speak and when you support exactly this kind of proposal to charge your debt first for the principal, and then for the cost and interest. However, I answer to you this is also my proposal, this is a significant improvement in terms of and disbursement of citizens themselves with regard to the loan agreement, but what we had in the Law on Mandatory Relations which had disappeared in the 1990s, and these were explicit norms and the Law on Mandatory Relations was abundantly limited and detailedly elaborated on the content of the loan contract, but it was not respected at all for a long time. The law on banks, banks worked not only under the Law on Banks but also by their internal rules and absolutely denied one of the most important laws after the Constitution in one country, which is the Law on Mandatory Relations. Therefore, what seems to me to help citizens to the end in any accounting, regardless of what is major progress in relation to the current situation, to put the general standard that interest is contractual or tightening must never cross the capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80820	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80821	E colleague Antičević when we talk about Croatia and some things then we still have to take some time periods. One was the time until Croatia began negotiations, and another was the period when Croatia joined the EU. We, as a member of the EU, can be much stronger and stronger than we were in the negotiation phase, because then those of you who touched with some law went to the prosecutor's office in Brussels, there sued you, powerful and strong interest groups attacked you from excise duty to tobacco through those SMS messages and everything like that, and you just started to stall a chapter. And then you panic to close this chapter agree to some things, but today no one can close any chapter and I think these things are 10 times more important than Lex Perkovic and these are the things that Croatia needs to fight on and these are things that the European Commission won't mind too much. Why? Because we protect our interests. The second thing, nothing that the bank will lose, nothing will lose telecommunications companies that have a profit of nearly 3 billion kuna per year in Croatia and that 300 million kuna that will be paid into the state budget is as if someone invited you to coffee. But that's why we need not to politicise about some things, not to tear down institutions, but to build institutions that will be the basis for an argument that we want to do this, and that's what the whole story is all about. Because if we hadn't strengthened those institutions, we'd never have finished negotiations. But if you bring down an institution that has to give you a foundation to explain why you've introduced something, then you've been sentenced to a game ever since. It's the same story that someone takes Rakitiæ and Modric now and what I know about Corluca and Pleikos and says go play... Brazil and get it 5-0, no way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The institutions are weapons, one political force and the government to fight in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80822	A coffee call depends on motive, always. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80823	Thank you very much. You were wondering what the role of the Central Bank was, and it's time to start talking about it. So you were the minister when the central bank and the governor fired out of reserve funds of 16 billion kuna on the pretext that each kuna would end up in the economy and that anyone who would not use that kuna in the development of entrepreneurship and economic activity would answer. And then when the banks received that money, 16 billion were blackmailed by the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry and you and granted a 6.75 loan, it seems to me at an interest rate. And on those funds, they had 0.25% of the interest rate passive in the source. That's how it happened, you couldn't react because you were being blackmailed, there was no synchronization between the Central Bank and the Government because the Central Bank is leading its policy, not politics, national economic policy. When you talk about a single tight interest rate we absolutely support such a law but that it is a unique interest rate for everyone and that the reference interest rate is not as defined, because it is not a reference law but that it binds to Euro Libor plus certain percentage points. When we talk about interest on savings, the sources of funds determine the price of capital. In Croatia, for years and still savings interest is higher than the inflation rate. Let me find a country in the European Union where the savings interest is higher than the inflation rate in that country. And we had three times the inflation rate. Of course, this raised capital and banks were not needed at all for new credit exposures because they had already had enough credit ratings and only changed the already approved interest rates and made money from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80824	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80825	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You see, counterpart Maric, many accuse the government then of refusing to admit that it was a crisis and many then expected the crisis to stop very quickly and to charge the crisis very expensively from the state. Because the state simply had to pay for pensions, salaries, health costs, etc. However, it is very interesting that the international financial market has reacted much more favourably than domestic banks, and for the first time in Croatia's history, we have issued bonds in America on far more favourable terms. But let's let it go, it's past time, what's been going on, the guilty Drines, they can't, unfortunately, correct themselves. But I don't think anyone has the right to a fig in their pocket right now. It's just that no one has a right. Because no one has come to the head of an institution, and no one has it because it is beautiful and smart, but because someone has proposed it, and no one in those institutions has their grandfather's, but it is the money of Croatian citizens. And anything possible, any possible means of uniting and pushing where they need to be pushed, then there's something we can do. However, the Ministry of Finance is usually like a boat on a wrinkled sea has some old oars and a half-broken rudder and that ship is full and everyone wants to steal one oar from you and break that rudder so that maybe it will row better or save itself in that whole story. So you and the Central Bank, I've said here a few times on this speaker they remind me of the war on those... Like me, as president of the Cross Staff, they came to me every day, they negotiated with them, they came to me for one topic, and they were yelling at us through the Cup, and the whole mountain was shaking, and they didn't care, they cared about those five baskets of bread that we took off because in the last few days 300 soldiers had escaped. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how the Central Bank teaches lessons from a distance, and that's the best. Unfortunately they've gone out of any control of us, they're now practically headed towards Brussels, but those redundancies, reserves. I'm listening, just one sentence please... [[Thank you very much.]] which tells me the state is taking money from the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] God damn it, the businessmen were gonna take that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80826	Dear Representative Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80827	Comrade Shuker, I'm glad you feel that this law and let me say I can interpret a good law and that you have no more serious objections to it and I don't mean to replicate it to you. But in one part you said about the burden of citizens, their debts that HEP had a huge profit last year and that it would be better to lower prices to make citizens pay less. That story of yours at first sight is acceptable,... And not to say until recently, until a year, two, three days ago, it was absolutely acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you forget that HEP is on the market and that none of us have to take electricity from HEP. A few days ago, they came from RWE, not HEP, I didn't want to because I know that at that price they have profits both profit and third, so I'd rather keep that profit to HEP in the state firm than RWE to the German firm. Therefore, if HEP with competitive market prices and is competitive achieves profit, that's good. It would be sad if the state-owned company HEP therefore had prices approximated or competitive in comparing with others and achieved loss and others worked with profits. Therefore, the fact that HEP is therefore on the market and they are dealing with their price with other bidders, because I say prices are here somewhere and making profits is a good thing and not a bad thing. So, I think it's, you should look that way. Because let's not just agree to never get back together with HEP being a loser or having no gain and having the price as well as the competition. If they have the same prices as the competition makes a profit, that's great.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80828	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80829	Comrade Jelusic, you see you're saying something, and your government does the opposite. Your government signed a contract with Slovenians to buy electricity for 250 million kuna. That's amazing. About the same hep you were supposed to give this to. However, I cannot agree with the fact that Croatian citizens have knocked up a billion-and-a-half kuna hep profit, and these money has not invested anything. Payed the state 20% of the profit tax, so the state budget with that basis is richer 300 million. So Croatian citizens paid another tax to the state and that's what I don't think is good. If HEP hadn't raised electricity at that time, almost 30%, so probably these competing companies that came to Croatia wouldn't have such a margin but would have gone with some margin to adapt to HEP. And secondly, given the energy system of the Republic of Croatia, I am talking about electricity producers, so Croatia when it has a good hydro year it has very cheap electricity. When she's a bad hydro year, she unfortunately has to buy electricity on the world market. Your electricity is bought on the stock market as well as money and everything else. So you have a lot of distributors now offering to supply you with electricity bought on the stock market, they don't have any power supplies. He goes out and buys it on the market and please. So, but the government takes an em from Slovenians and buys electricity, so let's just let's give HEP that he distributes gas, and we'll see what happens. And you get this joy unfortunately with Ukraine, there's an energy disturbance, the price of gas goes up and HEP makes a loss. And then what? Then what? We can't talk on the one hand about the market, and on the other hand, we're acting on the strongest models of the agreed economy, and that's not how socialism was handled at the time. So on the one hand, we liberalize electricity, and on the other hand, gas trade is totally obsessing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80830	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80831	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Shuker, I noticed this quote where you said HEP was taken from the pockets of Croatian citizens. I think you've clearly elaborated it, but I would in this particular section of the gas a little bit underline some of the things that seem to me to be taken out of the pockets of Croatian municipalities, and indirectly from the pockets of Croatian citizens. Namely, the Croatian government's latest regulation on the exploitation of hydrocarbons, the famous rent, the ratios of these, you know that now, we don't need to explain it, it's certainly taken up by municipalities, I come from the area where we participate in energy needs, almost the main gas comes from the area of Podravina, where my municipality and others and all the other calculations, no matter who they are, are taken by these municipalities almost 30% of this distribution. But look, it's not just the end of the story. The problem is that the gas price is the one that counts for HEP is not the 2.20, but 1 whole, and I don't know how much. In addition, these municipalities are further damaged. With that, of course, they were brought into an uninvited position because they were planning these funds, and now suddenly they're gone. Of course, projects are also questionable, so children build kindergartens and all other things. Our children also have a need, and of course those harmful consequences of these hydrocarbon explosions are enjoyed by that sulfurconductor, that we don't speak alive and all the other harmful factors. So it's one way that it's certainly not good and in the local environment it's not well accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80832	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80833	Thank you very much. Col. Milinkovic, anything a Croatian citizen more expensive to pay in the moments when his salary falls, and when he loses his job, he makes him go down to the bottom of the current one or burns a card so that it goes away for a few months and puts him in a position to get into some kind of credit commitment on high interest which he simply wouldn't have been in a position if what happened to him hadn't happened to him. But he can't not use electricity, he can't keep it warm in winter, he can't send kids to school and pay them certain costs. So it's all something where the state could react, and it's that social segment of the budget where it could conduct in a certain way how the price of energy at these difficult moments, and not on the one hand acts completely liberally, completely marketable, and where it fits us there we'll be totally conservative because in such a way we send a terrible negative message to all investors who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia because we have to be aware that only 70, 80,000 new jobs is something that will get Croatia out of this crisis and something that will reduce this number of blocked citizens who cannot pay their obligations. Only that, all the other stories are stories for small children, but in order to do so to those who are able to open those jobs, we have to give them space, we have to give them a hand of friendship, not constantly proclaiming them to enemies of the state, enemies of this kind, those who do not pay for this or don't pay for it because simply everyone today who invests, who opens one job, enters a great adventure and therefore needs to be congratulated and should be friendlyly accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80834	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80835	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you were talking about the role of banks, especially state banks when it comes to interest policy in the Republic of Croatia and otherwise interest policy. I'd like to add a few more words to that. I'm not a supporter, I'm not a person who lightly believes in big conspiracy theories, but certainly it's very indicative these days I'd say transfers for decades in the banking system, and right from Ersta Bank to two state banks, first of all to HBOR, and now the announced transfers to the Croatian Post Office would say that the ability of such transfers increases the fact that it's a shift of two successful administrations or two successful directors, and then perhaps it's right to ask why it is done in such a way, or maybe it's about the need to speed up the privatisation of a state bank or something else. It would be good for the government and the Ministry of Finance to do so in a certain way and to be seen. If you remember, I asked the Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure on the current morning about the reasons run by the government and the resolution ministry to privatise and another extremely successful state firm such as ACI. Here these days we hear that this kind of privatisation is really being prepared, even though the minister gave me a negative answer. But here's another week about how to prepare for ACI privatisation in order to prevent the takeover of someone else who is less desirable than the possible owner of the ACI, and then we'll focus such a privatisation process on someone else who's obviously more acceptable and desirable to us. It's like that other guy can't sell his stake in that ACI to somebody else. By what I mean? I would like to say that it would be good for the government to make very clear and get to know the Croatian public and us MPs, who are really heading with extremely successful state-owned companies such as in this case the Croatian Post Bank And like ACI. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80836	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80837	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, it's not just the ACI. We will probably talk a lot more about privatising Croatia's insurance. It's a very interesting subject. However, you probably missed a new HBOR law. The new HBOR law says all loans over 100 million are approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Then HBOR is no longer a bank, HBOR is some kind of quasi credit institution directed by the government. Is it possible that the board president left because he didn't want to listen to anyone? Is the president of the HPB Administration who certainly has one top-of-the-line knowledge from banking because he's been a long-time HPB deputy governor since he left because maybe when it comes to... It's very interesting for the HPB that just from the one bank that she wanted to buy, she was the most serious buyer, so eventually she gave up on the HPB, and there came the personnel at the head of the HPB. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Maybe it's an introduction to the transaction, you know. It's the same as we're going to do tomorrow, so it's too testy to have one, actually one introduction to the match Brazil – Croatia. Maybe that's the introduction to a game that's probably going to happen, but not by clear rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80838	Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80839	Thank you, dear colleague. In your debate, you asked yourself if this law would help, you expressed doubts whether it would help. So I think it's quite clear that it's going to help, because it's just going to cut the amount of interest that companies are currently paying on the principal's sums, and it won't have to pay so much to a certain extent such high gourmet interest. Should these interest rates still be less? I agree we should, but there's no question if it'll help. And those who are even burdened with ovaries where they can't get out of debt slavery. Why? Because they are constantly paying interest rates, nor can they reduce the principal because the huge amounts of these interest do not arrive to be reconciled with the current current flow of money and never reach, so to the possibility of paying off the principal. In this way some pay off both double and triple the principal's value and still don't even start paying off the principal. Now, so those who already have the upper hand and who are so they can really be said in a certain debt slavery, so they don't get a chance, so they're going to cut the capital from the amount of such huge interest. Yet I think this law will show some light at the end of the tunnel. This law will certainly help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80840	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80841	You see, fellow Pandek, you have a key question here. These are current debtors and future debtors. This law can help current debtors, future debtors hard, because people are so burned that they will be very careful when they enter credit relations not to come into a position to pay heavy interest. It's another thing. When I'm talking about taking off the principal first, then we have to figure out whether it's a tight interest, or whether it's a regular interest. That's a big difference, because when you pay the loan, then you have a regular interest rate. And as your head shrinks, so do your interest. At first, it's basically very high. But later, it's a basic interest account. But just tell me if you'd go on that principle if the interest wasn't paid and the principal was paying. Then what treatment will that interest debt have? It is a new financial term that Croatia will patent. You have to define how long it is, what debt it is, what debt it is for interest. So, on which interest is no longer paid, which is a logical thing. But you have to have a whole new financial expression to do that. Another thing that's happening to you? By reducing the principal, you generally reduce the interest rate and then, under the same credit conditions and interest rate, you did not raise credit. And then the one who pays regular interest and the loan turns out to be a jerk, because his interest rate on credit is much bigger than this. Because at some point, the interest won't pay at all, and the principal will shrink by a minimum. And on the interest he has left, he won't pay any more interest, and the principal won't have anything to pay the interest. So you get a new financial surrogate that has to legally define what it is. You have to legally define it. I didn't want to open that question because it's not the subject of this law, but it's a very, very broad question that It requires a very, very broad discussion. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80842	Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80843	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Shuker, you asked why not all the salaries and all the pensions would go through the Croatian Post Office Bank. But why don't all the deposits of state institutions? Why don't all the deposits of local companies, local self-government, why don't we go through the Post Office Bank? Why don't we strengthen that instrument right now at a time of crisis? Perhaps some will say it is not in line with market behaviour. However, when we remember the start of the crisis then we can remember the moments when EU countries had special measures that they actually put aside competition in some way and privileged their companies. In 2009, 2010, there was just a moment when they favored their own companies of the same state that they said we had to act marketly. I agree that we should act marketly, but it is now about an economic crisis which is, as you already said, the seventh year here. However, it should be recalled, I think we should highlight this, in 2011, we had two quarters of consecutive GDP growth. So, two quarters of consecutive growth and if there hadn't been a change of government and there was continuity, I'm convinced there would be no further decline and further erosion of the entire economy system in the Republic of Croatia. But, well, that's a whole other question. As for the causal linkages you mentioned earlier to ERSTE bank, I'd like to remind you of another case. Let's say the sale of Croatia's insurance where we see exactly that the leaders are changing to get the personnel who came to prepare the sale in certain institutions with whom they have connections. You mentioned the case, I say here's Croatia's insurance specifically. Kresimir Starcevic who came to the institution to sell it is known to whom. So, I think that's a question that some other institution should question about what the resulting links are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80844	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Matušić, is a key issue in the concept and role of HPB. So there was once an idea to make financial holding Croatia insurance and post office bank and to be there with FINA and Post Office infrastructure to be the central financial instrument of the Republic of Croatia. Because look, the state of Croatia with budget users, with businesses, turns 100 and a few billion kunas a year. And if that were going in such a way, then maybe it wouldn't be HPB like this and maybe we wouldn't be having these conversations today, but HPB would dictate some sort of pace, but under market conditions, if we understood each other, and others would fight to attract these deposits. He would fight for Peru, Bora, me or someone to draw himself if I had a deposit with him no matter how much I get paid through the Post Office Bank. Until such a market is opened, there's nothing. Second thing, I don't understand why the former governor has the idea of shutting down small banks in the region all the time? So if these banks don't have a future according to the estimates of the central bank that manages and controls and analyzes the banking sector, then it was a logical thing to get these directors together, the owners of those 15, 20 small banks, and to tell them gentlemen let's team up with the Post Office Bank. And I think that's something that should have been done in Croatia. What, though, is happening to us? Making a new... And then they say that the Maltene Post Office Bank is a rat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We did it experimentally in 2009, and when someone told me that for 25%, they would give me 50 million euros, then we said thank you very much, go home. And now some Postman's Bank would buy us $100 million and we should be overjoyed? But in situations like this, if you want to fight someone, then you have to have an instrument. One is an institution, and the other is a financial institution through which you can dictate to someone outside. Because then you dictate market conditions, it cannot tell you that you are doing something beyond EU rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80846	Thank you. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80847	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations, Mr. Minister, I haven't seen you since you became Minister. This legal proposal from the HDSSB club will support it. Clearly, he was either populist or half populist, yet in some sense some kind of progress. However, I must say that the HDSSB club has also contributed to this agenda and is included in point 39 of the proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate for the purpose of the legal halting of the implementation, the seizing and operation of Croatian citizens from the only property they have owned and in which they live. So something that would be very close to the intentions and this legal proposal that we have on the benches. So that's what happens that it's kind of at the same time and in the same agenda, and this is point no. 1st of this agenda, therefore the interest law, I do not mind mentioning that the HDSSB club is feeling and already before, citing several times since the time of the former government speaking of Croatian citizens' debt slavery and I personally earned at least one single warning so far because it was debt slavery, or that thought, was hidden in some way, and none of the ministers or the Prime Ministers wanted to admit that it was debt slavery of Croatian citizens, and here are the companies and others. That word of debt slavery and the mention of Greece, which also came into it, was blasphemy to the government, to the finance ministers and to all the other institutions that actually deal with this matter. I'm also talking today instead of the Master of Economy Kresimir Bubal who was prevented from coming and he was reported for this debate, so I'm going to try at least, although I'm doing something else, so the doctor, try something out of that economic account and the interest bills and I think it's too much. So will this legal proposal on interest with a reduction of tight interest and regular interest contribute to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for what are we actually MPs elected to the Croatian Parliament? Why did citizens end up not in bankruptcy because bankruptcy doesn't exist for citizens, it doesn't exist, but why did they end up in debt slavery? Are we wondering why they got into debt slavery? Sixty thousand companies and 314 thousand citizens are blocked because of debts they can't pay off. Citizens ended up in debt slavery not only because interest rates are high, I would say the most in Europe, but also because they have grown, which has increased, citizens' burdens towards the state have increased in terms of various taxes, the number of parafiscal taxes has increased, the VAT has increased from 23% to 25%, although 21% has been promised, the price of electricity has increased, the price of water, the price of gas. Loaded with such price hikes and an expensive country for which citizens have to single out, what happened? Citizens began to meet and implement all their financial obligations. To whom? It's just that the state drove the citizens away, forced them into a mill of banks. So people also take credit for the Communion when they have, and when there's a Crisis, and when there's a wedding, and there's a funeral, and there's a kirk or a party like they say in Herzegovina and everything else that's never happened. So we forced citizens into debt slavery, and the number of unemployed is divorced, GDP is permanently falling, the number of unemployed is growing, the number of people who are employed stagnating or falling, and what have we done? That's how we brought the citizens, we, this country, are carrying all the responsibility. Well, this interest rate reduction measure is just a camel, a little andol to tell me doctors, that a little pain would be less. But I do plead with the minister to continue in this direction. Not only is this a temporary measure, as it has been written here in the law for a year, but this one, as someone has already mentioned the interest rate, the tightening rate and the rest, the one prescribed by the state to the citizens, regardless of what the bank prescribes by its internal rules, to be even smaller. Furthermore, we here in the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, Croatian MPs have the right to change the Law on Mandatory Relations in which the principal and the principal's payment will come first, and then the interest and costs of the execution or other costs that relate to the debts of the banks or to someone else who is owed by a person, or a company or firm, by a craftsman. So we simply have to change because otherwise not only will the citizens go away, but the state is in debt slavery, we are all together in debt slavery and what we have made of Croatia, not to say maybe ugly or rude, something like a colony that, says Mr. One here who spoke, has three groups of cartels, sectors or how someone likes to call himself a banking industry. So, the financial sector, the foreign distribution sector, above all, the importer and the telecommunications sector that won over last year 3 billion kuna. About the sale of banks that were recapitalised by Croatian taxpayers, and then sold, sold, not to say... why foreign banks, of which ownership, for some of them are not even identified who actually owns these private banks, and today are doing business in Croatia and getting them through all these years not to talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are mentioned billions of kunas that are on the name of tight interest from Croatia or earned on the torture and sweat of Croatian people and on the fact that today we have 300 thousand blocked citizens and 60 thousand companies. And this debt that they owe first of all to banks, this debt, and the pain, and the sweat, one cramp where these people are, the bonuses of Croatian managers are paid to say private banks. Yeah, bonuses are actually paid out of debt, out of interest, not out of good bank work. About the rate of credit, about how much there's a high-risk placement, so these managers, they even say, to them and whatever the credit is, because they're at risk, on top of that, they're getting their bonuses, not on real growth and the state of the bank. Is this term debt slavery one verbal alibi for passing such a law? I don't believe it, I think the minister is completely real and aware, and he expressed it publicly on television, and in the media, in what kind of reality that expression is, that word finally got its place in reality and in the public. That's what may not have been recorded, especially significantly in the media, but it's really a reality. I'm not going to talk, and it might not be nice to talk about people I know around me who are desperate to get their share of interest back, and I can never get to the principal. To the grave or to the death are simply debtors in debt slavery. In such an unfortunate country, in order for someone not to take me wrong, I love Croatia above all else, but in a country where 300 thousand people are in debt slavery, 350 thousand do not work, in which pensions are what they are, in fact that makes people nervous, mildly said or unhappy, living and unhappy people. So look at our citizens, look at the tram of people, look at the street, where there's laughter, where's joy, where's socializing? Maybe it's just football, as Schucker says, these days, that he's a little bit of a grouper and he's uniting and he's making it kind of social and happy. Or an accident or an accident as basic as a flood, cataclysm or a disaster in Cvelferia, Gunja, Racinovci, Rajo village, Rats, Đurići, Drenovci and Strošinci, so I don't forget. So, simply from this, this is not the only measure nor is it the only ministry that should take care of getting out of this debt slavery until we realize that the common state and all that it has imposed on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a state that is without any, without a cramp on its face, is getting 1600 cars. You say it's a need, that it has to be, and that a citizen who's in debt and who's in charge and dissuasion is not in need of it. The police will come to depose him, it must be the same thing. It can't go that way. And even now, this 250 cars for the needs of the MUP, as if it didn't know it would take more, so you could buy everything in one package. Such a set of states paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia has forced citizens into debt and dependence on banks and it is a circus one or a circus, however you will. It's a closed circle to get out of. We are talking here about interest in foreign countries, in the EU, and we are saying that it is a great success. It is, for the first time, that the state of Croatia owed a billion and a half euros at 3.8% interest, but it is for the first time in Croatia's history. But that twenty-four-year history lasts as long as others in other countries, starting in Slovenia, Poland, anywhere, other countries owed 2 - 2.5% without any problems. And what are the advantages of those who are in charge of this interest rate compared to Croatia? Or it was someone's intention and intensity to actually force Croatia and Croatian citizens into debt slavery. I don't want to talk about the CNB, but the H.P.B. that I've told you about a hundred times here, but no one has ever listened to me, not the former minister, not the ministers, not the current one. So why does the state of Croatia, if the HPB is state-owned, majority state-owned exclusively, why does the state of its 260 thousand civil servants and tenants and those in the public sector not pay salaries through the HPB? Both a million and 200 thousand pensioners, also through the Croatian Pensions Institute, are all receiving salaries through the HPB. Why does the Croatian Government buy electricity from Slovenians with this competitive HEP? Let's have someone from the Croatian government prove it to me. He says a competitive HEP and even has a billion-and-a-half kuna surplus, achieved, and we will just deliberately buy electricity from Slovenians. I'm not saying Slovenians shouldn't do business, free market, but why exactly did the Croatian Government point out its market orientation to buy electricity from... companies owned by the state, not from HEP, but from Slovenians All right, I'll say more. It's over. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] Time's up? Okay, I'm sorry, but okay. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time's up.]] Mostly the HDSSB will accept this small, small step forward from the Croatian government's interest policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80848	A colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80849	Dear colleague Grubisic, this is, I would agree, a small step forward even though I personally support this law, but the fact is one thing. Real life like this says, somewhere in the 10th month of last year, the growing banks were giving a deal to their clients who owed certain amounts, for example. In one case, 100 clients who owed up to about 10 thousand kunas of the amount for which the executive procedure had already been launched, the bank gave them the opportunity to settle if they paid one-third of the amount. Do you know how many of the 100 clients have managed to pay? Seven of them. And it's a Croatian reality. So they don't have any money. We here bring a good, better proposal, absolutely, but the question is how realistic it will be for Croatian citizens. Maybe a little yes, but for most of them who don't, they don't care what the interest rate is. Perhaps for the economy, for entrepreneurs, that, especially this provision, if, of course, the Law on Mandatory Relations is changed, that first the principal is paid, and only then the interest, and that requires the re-amendment of the Law on Mandatory Relations. So I don't know how long we'll be able to make it by 01/07 when this law is going into effect, and today it's almost mid-six months, if we're going to do it all. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80850	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80851	Thank you very much, colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. I'd use your replica in one medical opinion, it's hard to animated a dead man. So whoever has already died under difficulties, I speak vividly, as they say literally, but whoever has already died with such a policy, the one who has fallen into a situation where debt slavery has brought him to ruin not only financially, but we have come to a moral crisis, a crisis of thought, a crisis of everything. It's hard to recover, so here's the measure that one bank tried to carry out that out of 100 of those, only seven managed to repay a third of the debt that was up to 10,000. So the resuscitation of the one who died clinically is quite difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80852	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80853	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Today we are discussing a law that may not be as important for us here as it is important for citizens, especially for citizens with problems with the return of loans, who have to pay heavy interest, especially for those citizens, and unfortunately for them is the good part or most who have so-called. minuses on their current accounts that people are used to living with. I don't think that the vast majority of our citizens live with those minuses and those minuses that the banks approve and they're happy that the bank approves of that minus because they have no other exits, the banks charge them a tight interest that's high. The point of this law is that this law defines this tightening interest, as much as it can be and what matters most is that it is now smaller than it was before. So one way to do it is to make it easier for citizens to live and fight credits and banks. Of course we have resisted it again or entered if I can say no again for the first time in the last year, two days in the "war" with the banks and bankers, and we do not regret it, and we have already been seriously criticised for it. Because in this conflict between citizens and banks, we have sided with citizens, not because some have said it's populism, it's not populism, it's justice and justice to ensure normal conditions that citizens can live normally, but also banks. So we're not making banks lose because of it, we're simply making a little money or saving on other things, and I'm going to talk about it later. So the tightening interest will be lower by about 0.65% and is calculated differently, but it does not mean much to the citizens, so it is now starting from the reference rate and not from the final rate of the Croatian National Bank, but it is important for citizens that the tightening interest is lower and, of course, it is good to determine on the basis of the reference. In doing so, the banks will lose something, lose because they will no longer have the interest they had, they will have something smaller, and they will still be able to live decently and well and will not, as they claim, be questioned that they will not deal with profits. In addition to their observation that this is populism, how to respond that in most EU countries in the euro area, the tightening interest is even lower than here. And in the end, this government, too, has been often accused in particular of proposing laws and producing laws that are liberal as a result of a neoliberal concept. If there are no other laws, this is certainly not on this trail, but it is on the trail of social responsibility if we can talk about these categories of neoliberal social democracy, this is certainly a social democratic law, not neoliberal and we are not afraid of these objections either. So I said in the eurozone, tight interest is even lower, down 3 to 4 percentage points than we have. Of course, we have entered the EU, we are not yet in the euro area, we are likely to enter hope not so long ago, but in any case what we want and I think we are taking the right, which is that we are paying interest roughly equal to or not much bigger than the German, Austrian and Slovenians who are our neighbours and we are in the EU and we want to share the fate of the EU with them even in this segment when it comes to loans and interest. The reference was made by the Croatian Banks Association, and we discussed on the board whether it was necessary to enable citizens specifically, so the maximum tightening interest will be 11.35, whether it would allow the economy to have higher interest contractually and tensely to be 1 percentage point higher. I personally don't think I should because in these 12 percent of how much this tight interest is now it's going to change how the reference rate changes, there's enough space for everyone to place the capital either that company or the bank to cover their operating costs and the cost of capital sources but to make some money. To go to a contractual interest between entrepreneurs that it could be up to 18% of what is proposed and that was what I don't think is good. And regardless of what some will object to us getting into the freedom of bargaining, my answer to that is if we go into freedom of contract, then we don't have to max it out, because whenever you max it out, you get into the freedom of bargaining, and if we say it's a maximum of 18%, I wonder if you can, can a single company in Croatia go to any kind of project, in any development with interest of 16% or 18%? Of course he can't. It is not competitive because others do so with much lower interest in Europe from 2% to 3%, 1.2.3%, with us something more, but with this interest certainly not. Of course, no one's going to go, so they're developing with that kind of interest. Who's forced to take that interest so high? Only one who has no other choice, who's in trouble, who's in trouble. So will the one who's in trouble or in trouble as we say Colloquially come out of these problems if he pays such a tight interest. He won't. So let us not, let us help those who are in trouble to get out of trouble as soon as possible, and if we make this possible, we will never find it. Therefore, I think that 12% interest is quite enough that anyone who places money under that interest can live and cover their business costs. Of course, it should be said that we have another law that we have passed in Parliament, two more of which we have made similar laws where we help citizens in these problems about credit institutions and consumer credit laws, where in one way we maximise interest, that famous story about Swiss people, interest on housing loans, and where the Consumer Credit Act has maximumed the contractual interest in any way, so the interest which a citizen can bear, or which someone can not give to him at all, but to offer at all. And we said that, that interest is that and it's effective, so including all the costs of that loan, all the costs of processing, etc. And when it turns into interest, it can't go beyond that, that it has to be 1% less than a tight interest. This means that no more citizens in Croatia will be able to offer him a loan, let alone give him a loan that will be greater than 10.35% with a tendency to reduce it. Of course, the question arises, and the bankers are already making a little noise, raising the voice that we're forcing them to work with loss, not knowing whether they'll be able to make more profits, etc. In the past few years, Croatian banks have won several billion kunas from 3 billion to 4 billion kuna. And then I came from this booth and from the bench on behalf of the club and on my behalf warned that it was not good, that banks have, extremes have profits, that they live very well, that citizens and economies are bad, that it is not a partner relationship. And that in such a relationship simply the banks temporarily live well whether they will not be able to live in the long run either because they will simply break the citizens and the economy and will no longer have anyone to work with and who to offer at all, even when they offer cheaper loans. Now it's a little bit of a payoff, the bank profits have fallen a little bit, partly because of these laws we've passed and we're not sorry about it. But most of the problem or their fall in profits comes from other things. So four are elements that affect their business. It's one thing because they're getting money, so the source of their money, the other is how rational they are in their business and how much they pay the rewards to managers, etc. So the third is how much they make on that money they take, so they fairly place it, what's their price difference, if I may say so. And the fourth is whether they have bad placements, whether they're their bad clients, they're shared loans without any good grounds, they put themselves in the position that some of their plasmas have failed, that they can't pay back, and that's why they're in trouble. So when all of the four of these elements are evaluated last where they need them, so where we need to give them, we have understanding, and that's about interest when it comes to loans to citizens, so there's some reduction, and that's where we're going to do what they're doing to reduce their interest both towards citizens and towards the economy, and that's where we really don't want them. But first of all, let them seek their own space for better business in these other elements, first of all in their efficiency, so in their rationality of business, but in giving credit to whether or not they give someone so the loans fail, so they cannot be charged and most importantly to secure cheaper sources of money from their owners, from their mothers' banks, from those of the large capital behind them. Because I repeat and say all these banks are ours, they bear the names of our cities from Zagreb, Split, etc., but they are neither the banks of the city of Zagreb, nor Zagreb, nor Split or Split, but they are the owners of who knows which people, I really don't know them, but in any case behind them there is a large capital. So let them make a little less money on them and they'll have cheaper sources of our bank, so they can behave here rationally. In the end, how can these same banks live well in Germany on interest, which is a few percentage points lower than what is here. We therefore ask that we are in the European Union, so we want to have equal terms as much as it is at this point pretentious, but I think we must look for this and be equal at that table and be equal to the citizens of both Croatia and Germany and Austria and others. And finally feel like we're in the circle we belong to and where we're even. So let's not let the banks accuse us and this government of forcing them to lose or reduce profits to blame those who are them, these bank management, let them accuse those who have appointed them and who dictate their terms and we will continue to be on the side if I can say so, so that banks don't earn as much as they have so far and that citizens and the economy are suffering. Whether this request and what we are doing is justified, realistic, we will try and ultimately have to say why we should always be undeveloped, why we should always be those who are bad, why we will not finally come into an equal relationship with other citizens of the European Union, have the same sources of funding and eventually become full but not only members of the European Union but not only so that we can travel with a personal identity card but also have that we can have economically as decent living as others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80854	Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80855	Your Honor, Madam President. My friend you said we're helping the citizens of the SDP. So please don't help the citizens anymore. They're citizens under water, they only have thin straws, they swim, they breathe through straws. There's so much more. If you can still help them and shut that straw up, that's it. So this bank thing and the interest thing. I can raise my hand for this but this is just a point on and, that is, it's the consequence of everything that's been going on in the economy for years. But it's no permanent solution. You're here playing I mean like the SDP of Robin Hood, now you're going to defend the citizens from the banks. Nothing, a citizen can go abroad, raised a cheaper loan, etc. They're also the citizens. Croatia can only save the truth. They bought a car and we said live well. You see how many cars in the streets of our cities, and now we know that those cars were bought on loans that citizens can't pay for right now. We all need to come to our senses, get back to the truth, look at the facts, and the government needs to make the right moves, reverse politics, but here's the thing, and colleagues from different parties talked about it. Let's make decisions in the Croatian Parliament we won't sell HPB. We're going to make a big state bank, there's both America and Germany, and it's going to give us $3.4% interest. Are we a bunch of idiots that out of 5 million of us can't find one smart man who's gonna run the bank well? We need to put a liter... every morning in our hair and then put him in there, and he'll ruin everything before and after. Let's find one man, and I'll find five of them. And let's give state capital, has the right to both Parliament and government and hospitals through that bank to place funds, etc. And we build a bank and we owe no one anything. We can't war with banks, banks have their logic and capital has its logic but the state and government need to have their logic. Unfortunately, he doesn't have his own government logic. You need to turn politics around and then you could say that in a way that's good. And this is a farce again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80856	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80857	Dear Duje, my dear colleague, at least I think you're not a short-term man and don't make such an impression. You're saying that we're giving people something on straw, so on the sale of banks, etc., you're saying that until yesterday you weren't part of a government that has ruled this Croatia for 15 years and over. ... You say we give citizens something on straw to make them a little bit better. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So who put them in this situation? So we're trying to reduce these citizens' burdens now, reduce as much as possible. So why didn't you do it, why did you bring the citizens into such a situation? And now that that's what we're trying to do, you're complaining to us. I really don't know how to put myself in that whole story. You're talking about selling banks, so don't talk about it. You Croatian banks in the 1990s brought all or most of them to ruin. Why, then, by sharing loans with similar non-refunders, it had to be settled from the state budget and then sold as such. Therefore, it is Croatian indeed. It's Croatian indeed. So that's what you're talking about right now, so you've ruined everything you could, brought the citizens to the brink of shame, and now you're accusing us that we're looking for a straw where citizens can't start breathing or eating. Well, we're expanding that straw, and soon it'll have a spoon and we're fighting to really finally make some citizens live better than they did before. It doesn't work the way we expected, I admit it, but what we found is good as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80858	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80859	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. I'd like to congratulate you, too, Minister with an associate. Just one note before I go, there are often laws in the House as their bad side suggesting that they are just a small wheel or a small pebble or just straw, but of course that does not mean anything bad about these laws. I think that as the ruling majority or some other ruling majority one day when it is in this House, it may actually be satisfied if the key objection to the law is that it is only a piece. Of course, each of the laws we make and each of the measures we take is a pebble in the mosaic, only one part of the story, and of course the state is a very complex mechanism to make anything so important and so great that it can make a move for itself. This law evens in fact, the simplest lay-down of tight interest rates in different market relations because we have this situation that the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement determines the interest in one way, through the reference rate, and the Mandatory Relations Act has been used so far as an escort rate as a base. This law achieves a uniform way of calculating tight interest primarily. Another important thing that regulates is the rate of contractual interest between entrepreneurs, i.e. entrepreneurs and public rights persons, and so that the highest possible rate is reduced, with it still as it has been, tied to the rate of legal tightening interest, but cannot be higher than that rate so far that up to 50% more than the legal tightening interest. In other words, at this point it means a reduction from 18 to 12.35%. That's what the minister and many of my predecessors have already said, but these figures and I want to point out, at first glance and lay-eye, look like a serious fall, as a serious difference, and in that sense, that straw seems to be one solid stone or one solid straw for people who are in a situation to whom this law applies and whose law will in this sense be helpful and further regulated and the level of interest rates in cases where the interest is agreed, but not a certain rate, is worth the interest rate at half the rate of the tight interest rate. That also seems to be an important part of this law. But all of this is more or less written in the background and said. What is a key question for us, for HNS and for everyone here in the Croatian Parliament is whether the state can intervene in this way at all as the law provides. The question being asked is whether it can be limited in this way to the price of the product on the market, and credit is the product the bank offers on the market as well as any other product. And in this sense we are aware of the arguments that have appeared in this debate, we are aware of the arguments primarily of the Croatian Banking Association which is always very active and very concentrated in protecting its interests taking part in these discussions and also of the aspect of freedom of negotiation and business can be discussed on this issue. But when we talk about freedom of negotiation and negotiation, then we need to be aware of one fact. Freedom of bargaining and negotiation is not freedom if one party is free and the other is eventually turned into a slave. Then we don't have the freedom to negotiate and we don't have the freedom to negotiate. And in this regard, keeping in mind all the dramatic data that Minister Lalovac has made in the opening debate today and in previous days, HNS supported this law and supported primarily its basic intensities with the emphasis that it is, of course, the first reading and that we are, too, but that is what the minister announced in his opening presentation we are open to further discussions on the final form of the model of the first calculation that will ultimately look like, but we absolutely support this proposal and its intention. Especially given that even in the context of how this proposal continues to be proposed in Croatia, it is a relatively high interest rate and relatively high penalisation effect through tight interest. However, what we need is to establish and hope that this law will succeed, to establish such a balance in relations that are indeed disturbed that I do not enter at all why and how it came about. There are two principles in which we must never lose sight and respect. First principle. The believer must be absolutely protected and his ability to collect the debt must be protected. A society where they are not paid or paid back is not a society and a state where they are not paid or returned is not a state. And one of the problems, one of the causes of Croatia's problems, is that during the years of development, we have opened a dangerous door to the practice of non-refunding, non-refundable debt within the deadlines, forgiveness of debts without criteria for some, and some others do not, that for five kunas we are sending out executions, and for 50 million we are sharing rewards for entrepreneurs of the year. It is a dangerous, dangerous story that we have allowed and opened in Croatia, and it is certainly something that needs to be changed and solved immediately. And this bill of law, which on the one hand, opens up the possibility of facilitating the repayment of debts, is certainly going in that direction. The second thing I want to point out is that banks like all other free market entrepreneurs must be able to place loans under conditions that make business sustainable and that is not disputed. And banks as institutions, banks by definition as part of the economy, as part of the state, as part of society are not our enemies. And that's the same door we opened that should be closed. Banks are by definition not enemies, not citizens, not entrepreneurs, not states. In fact, all of us from bank placements in one way or another live and enjoy them, and very rarely we were forced to enter into the relationship we entered both as a state and as individuals. But between not paying back debts from one side and having a complete absolute freedom to negotiate in which we do not in any way influence. From... We have long since given up, there is a state and its obligation and its responsibility or at least its right to in extreme situations such as the one in which we are currently intervening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that sense, and with this, I repeat, the HNS supports this law, supports in particular its intention, and we are open to a second reading for any changes and new models specifically calculated that may happen and agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80860	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80861	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Coleman, you said that this law, the law in first reading, was included with the possibility of including proposals from discussions and others in the second reading. However, we are witnessing that in the Croatian Parliament it is usually included in the agenda of the laws under emergency procedure. So it's a final draft of the law by emergency procedure, so I don't know if it's that caution in view of this first reading, and what's the caution that this is the first reading. Why not, as you used to make laws by emergency procedure, immediately put this law into laws by emergency procedure and almost, after a brief procedure to say. Second. When you talk about banks as our friends, I was a witness who called me from some polling agency to say something. And I've given my opinion about the bank or the banks I'm dealing with and I have accounts of current and jury accounts, etc. So I asked the one who interviewed the lady, and tell me if she had any different opinions. Mine was relatively negative. He says no, mostly not mostly, 99% is the same thinking as you think. So, a pretty negative opinion. Why did you get such a negative opinion about banks? That you even found the need to talk about banks as friends. And after all, you said it was long, long because it had to come back. No one's against the debt coming back, but the interest is in the domain of free bargaining. For us, however, interest has become what it says and the conditions about interest are the change in what is written in small letters as it has already entered our jargon in Croatian and the pretext that what the conditions say is in small letters. So why is it writing small letters, if you can write fourteen? So obviously one of the views of whoever writes that contract is that you don't understand it very well or you don't see it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80862	Thank you very much. Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80863	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Why emergency procedure? If he's going to the E.R., then why isn't he in two readings, if he's going in two readings, then why isn't it urgent? However, it seems to me that this is the case, regardless of the law which is relatively short and has a relatively small number of articles, it is a very complex matter, it is a very complex and intertwined interest in society and it seems to me a point of ultimate responsibility by the promoter to do so in two readings and that it is highlighted in the opening statement that the proposal is open to any other proposals and until the final version of the polishing let's say this law. In that, of course, two readings actually do not necessarily have to affect the length of time the law will spend here in the Assembly, so we can do it all together and relatively quickly, but it seems to me that it is very responsible by the promoter to go into two readings with such a complex matter especially because we have seen so far in the debate there are several ideas about calculating what the reference rates then these supplements, reduction. So, it seems to me it's not a dispute. Banks as friends, I didn't say that banks are mine or our friends, I wouldn't go that far. I just said that it seems to me that it is dangerous for banks by definition, so not any of them individually foreign or domestic but banks as an institution to declare themselves an enemy because they are not enemies and we all know by ourselves that very often we have entered into different relationships as citizens, I am not talking about the economy at all, but as citizens very often we enter into relationships with banks that we were neither forced to but honestly we didn't need them, but we blame ourselves. And debt, yes, debts must be paid back and the law that can make it easier in that sense is in any case a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80864	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80865	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. After the Consumer Credit Act, which limits interest on consumer and housing loans to this interest law, order and tight interest are being introduced. Tight interest plays a role in terms of financial discipline, it cannot be very low, but the existing level in Croatia is certainly too high. As a result, the Working Group, i.e. the Committee for the Determination of Interest Rates, consisted of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the CNB, the HGK, the HUP and the bankers, was responsible for making recommendations on the level of tight interest, or for reducing them. Of course, all such attempts do not have too much understanding of domestic banks that they believe have no further room for ceilinging interest rates. They believe that this would not bring improvements to the financial market, of course for them. So far, tight interest has been regulated with several regulations. In the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement of the calculation bases, there is a reference market rate, and in the Mandatory Relations Act, the Econcentration Rate of the CNB. In the first scenario, tight interest reaches 12.35% and in the second 15% and 12% respectively for citizens. But consensus between institutions and bankers will be hard to come, as different interests conflict. Bankers are afraid that the downturn of tight interest will put pressure on other interest rates as well as at the end of the savings. Following the above but also the present differences in the determination of a tight interest rate, this proposal proposes a calculation of the tightening interest rate based on the relevant interest rate, and it is important to achieve a uniform method of calculation in relations between all participants in the financial market. After all these debates for our citizens today, the most important thing is to make this catastrophic situation at least a little easier. A large number of citizens, including pensioners, are said to be the minister in debt slavery. We remember that a year ago, pensioners were left without full pensions because of the inability to pay for electricity, gas, TV fees and other costs. Therefore, Croatia as a social state must find models that will help citizens pay out various loans. The fact is that there are also a lot of irresponsible citizens who take lightly and recklessly various loans, of course, to better standards. These days I'm watching on a TV screen one of those families that can't pay credit rates. In the first year, they took a loan for the apartment, and already next year a loan for the car, so it is easy to enter debt slavery especially if the job is lost. Our citizens, especially those who are in trouble, wonder why Croatia has not felt the benefits of low interest rates as the citizens of Italy or Austria have from these same banks that are in Croatia? I remember what expectations Croatian pensioners had in the beginning of negotiations on Croatia's entry into the EU, they believed that too low Croatian pensions would be improved, that injustices in the pension system would be corrected. Unfortunately, the EU says it would not want to meddle in the pension system as well as in other European countries. We often hear about alignments and the same prices of energy, gas, electricity that they say needs to be harmonised. In the end, I think that any reduction in interest rates will be a small shift to help both the economy and our overindebted citizens. I also point to another problem, before the year ago I met Minister Linic, about the flood of various leaflets in the media, trams, trees offering easily available loans, especially for pensioners. I think that's the way to advertise suspicious loans should end up. The Croatian Retired Party Club welcomes every interest reduction and, of course, supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80866	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, not present, loses the right to debate on this point. My colleague, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80867	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ministers with a colleague, respected colleagues and colleagues. So two things are important about this bill. First of all, the law introduces order into an extremely important area, an area of tight interest that has not been practically touched in recent years, and it is extremely important. The circumstances have changed significantly, and one such intervention is necessary. The law proposes that the basis for the calculation of tight interest in the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is an econtamination rate of the Croatian National Bank, which, we must say, has proved inappropriate because it is not a relevant reflection of the real situation on the money market. Therefore, that basis is equated with the basis of the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement in which the basis is a reference interest rate based on the real value of interest rates on the money market established and published by the Croatian National Bank. In other words, this law introduces order in the area of legal tightening interest in the way it has been resolved in the European Union, so that the basis is a reference interest rate rather than an econcentrate interest rate, with the result that the reference interest rate is established as an average interest rate on the credit position granted over a period of more than one year to non-financial corporations and which is calculated for the reference period preceding the current half-year minus one percentage point. Such a legal formulation of tight interest is certainly incomprehensible for most of our Croatian citizens, they are far, far more important to what this legal proposal will bring to them in concrete everyday life, how it will affect their lives and their financial opportunities. And what is most important to point out in this sense is that this legislative proposal brings down the legal tightening rate. Therefore, this government is taking concrete measures to facilitate an extremely difficult situation and the economy and especially for the citizens, so the government does not wait for a secluded hand to resolve the situation on its own, or to resolve it, to resolve the current financial market and, of course, to show that this government is socially sensitive. The banks, of course, are not satisfied with the government's procedure as they were not satisfied even when the government took an active part in resolving the credit problem approved in the Swiss francs. However, the fact is that this government is the first to deal with the so far-reaching financial industry in solving these truly great problems for Croatian citizens. The debts of Croatian entrepreneurs were reduced primarily through a pre-profit settlement model of 13 billion kuna, however, despite the decrease they made on the last month, on the last day of May this year amounted to 32 billion kuna. So they're still extremely tall. The debts of Croatian citizens on the same day, i.e. on the last day of May 27 billion kuna. Blocked accounts had as many as 318 thousand citizens. But what is important in this whole story is that 27 billion major loans, or debts, need to be added another 12 billion kuna of tight interest. So the total debt of citizens is 40 billion kuna and all of this shows how it actually lived on debt for years, how it lived above real opportunities. My colleagues and colleagues come from the town of Čakovec, so one of the cities next to the Križovci, which the minister mentioned in his opening presentation as those where the citizens' accounts have now reached 10% of the population's total. So, every tenth citizen has a blocked account, or this moment is under control because he's not able to reconcile his financial liabilities, and that's one terrible burden, that's one terrible status quo, so you don't have a practical perspective you can't go on. I'll remind you, the basic function of a tight interest, I'll simply say, is to protect the substance of a financial claim when it's not settled in the agreed or legal term. However, the fact is that the tight interest rates in Croatia are too high. And when that fact, to put it that way, is tied to an inefficient legal court, which is unfortunately in Croatia where debt religious relations are not resolved, so the tight interest is increased every day, so the debt is added and debts are growing in the sky. Then it's one, we'd say a vicious circle, one of the stalemates in which everyone loses, of course, the most lost Croatian citizens, but it also loses both businessmen, and states, and also banks because they're not getting their loans back. And we see in fact every year from the Croatian National Bank report that there are more and more of those so-called Bad credits, therefore, increase reservations for these loans because they cannot be charged, and booking costs are certainly re-possessed to both businessmen and citizens in terms of increased interest. Also, the profits of banks in recent years have fallen because finally the banks have begun to share the fate of both Croatian economies and Croatian citizens, namely we all know very well that there are no good banks without a good economy or a good economy without good banks. And that's why banks are due to parent banks, so they pay back billions of loans to their mothers because they can't place them in Croatia, and the cost of these loaned funds is high. It's just that neither businesses nor citizens can borrow credit anymore. So this reduction of tight interest through this legislative proposal is only one way to help both the real sector and the citizens. So, in his opening debate, the minister mentioned some other instruments, some other models that could solve this huge indifference, this enormous responsibility both of the citizens and of the economy, and it is up to the executive authorities to come up with more concrete and quality legal proposals in the short run to solve this problem more intensively. So this is the beginning, the government's task is to continue in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80868	Thank you very much. My colleagues Kresimir Bubalo, Drazenko Pandek. They're not present. They're losing the right to argue on this wheel. I'm asking Minister Lalovec for his closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80869	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, here we have heard today's debate opening up life issues of citizens and the current situation and the way out of this one situation where we have said that certain... methods we have shown that very difficult is going and that there are actually very great resistances. As far as the economy is concerned, we have offered certain models and effects are visible and means more than 12 billion kuna indifference in the economy has decreased within a year, a year and a half, which is a great, certainly great success. However, in this issue of opening up the debt of citizens is also an even more complex issue and opening up this legislative regulation in what way to achieve when the rule of law does not work, and when you have these amounts of blocked funds, it means that creditors cannot collect their claims. It is a very clear question that we here do not only have a problem and that we will solve it with the interest law, but what we expect from our colleagues in the judiciary to offer effective instruments, and also from the legal system to articulate these, not to say cry, that they must be in that section and offer certain solutions, and not only to see how the entire legal system does not work. I thank you for your comments, what we have provoked here today, and what I think was positive from all clubs is a way of closing debts, or whether to first close the principal as a priority demand, and after a tight interest and through this debate we have actually provoked the change of the Law on Mandatory Relations where it is actually there and defined that area, so we expect that from the second reading, certainly a certain debate in this context, whether it is necessary to amend the Law on Mandatory Relations and thus see, but actually see all the instruments and effects of changing that model. I thank you for the debate and your suggestions that are even... the HDZ Club will certainly consider until the second reading certainly improve this law. Thank you. In short, I apologize, since I don't have a deputy, and now I'm going to go to the government's session, we have a point that's quite important, and it's about discharging citizens in flooded areas where the government of the Republic of Croatia is going to be able to get those entrepreneurs who are unfortunately in these areas, but I have a point where the government of the Republic of Croatia will pay minimum wages and contributions, so I won't be able to be at these next two points, but I'll be right back. If I hadn't had a point, I'd have stayed there anyway, but since I have a very important point in the government session, I apologize to you because technically I can't be in two places. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80870	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80871	Let's go to the draft interest law, first reading, P.Z. No. 664. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A proposal of the Interest Act is adopted, any objections to proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please make a statement. Who's to this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour of, 15 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80872	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 669 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. A representative of the government thinks there's no need to explain the law. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic. He's not there. The club loses the right to debate on this wheel. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80873	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues, according to the technical law, and it is good that Croatia is signing these contracts because they simply open up a space for economic co-operation and it was on the board of questions how much Croatia expects there to be such cases as regards India, I think it is irrelevant at the moment than that it is far more important that we have this contract as something that tomorrow should not be a brake for certain projects in the Republic of Croatia. However, I would like to open a question here that we have already talked about several times in this House of Commons, and it binds the same law that we unfortunately do not have signed with the United States and with the overseas countries, and it directly thins the pensioners. And surely Croatia will not have this double taxation agreement with the United States signed for a certain period of time for a simple reason until they... The Ministry of Finance does not assess that they are interested in doing so with the Republic of Croatia until then they will not do so for the simple reason that the tax system in the United States is such that in principle the most affected profit while taxation of consumption is practically at a minimum level. We in the overseas countries have very many Croats who want to return to Croatia, they want to come to Croatia under the old days, and they want to tax pensions, all because of the unresolved health insurance problem, unfortunately they have a brake to get to the Republic of Croatia. And if we can't deal with it through the Double Taxation Act, then, through the Income Tax Act, we should treat these pensions differently, nor will Croatia fiscally benefit from these money, and I think that most of them have gone for political reasons, most of them gone for economic reasons. He went as our people say with the belly after the circle and today when they want to return it is funny to come to pay taxes in America and pay taxes in Croatia. And that is why I appeal to Mr. Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this provision regarding taxation of foreign pensions to be treated differently because there are a large number of people in Australia and America who, if nothing else came to Croatia for 6.7 months and in such a way, would probably have been their second and third-generation children who have already been weak and speaking Croatian, who have been very successful in business in America, in Australia, South America. Perhaps tomorrow they too would be potential investors of people who might invest their knowledge in Croatia, perhaps this would be one stimulant to come to Croatia. This way when their parents stay in America, then the little stimulant that would possibly bring them back to Croatia doesn't exist. So, the HDZ Club will support this bill because ultimately, it is in the interest of all of us that Croatia has signed these contracts with all countries. But on behalf of the club, I took the opportunity to open up one question of what we talked about several times in this House of Commons. Our people call us emigrants from all over the world who would like to come to Croatia under the old days, however, their pensions are not small and they would pay a pretty high rate in Croatia for their pensions and most of all that 40%. So, Mr. Minister, perhaps one point to think about. And I understand the reasons why the government suggested taxing pensions, but I think you should still resort to this other one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80874	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80875	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 669. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 95 votes, Law P.Z. was passed. No. 669.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80876	We will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the second loan for the development policy of economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 671. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80877	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a second loan for the development policy of economic recovery. This is a 150m-euro loan, the repayment deadline is 15 years, the interest rate is six-month Euro RIBOR increased by fixed margin, so the current interest rate is 1.16% means one of the most favourable loans the Government of the Republic of Croatia has managed to make. But what's important is this is not a loan as a loan, this is a loan obtained under reforms. So we couldn't get a loan if it wasn't for the reforms. Do we often hear in public that the government is not implementing reforms, that there is not enough power, that we do not have enough speed in all of this, but with international financial institutions that are very simply passing through their matrix unless you have satisfied a certain percentage of their matrix you will simply not get and says you are not satisfying. So the first loan was signed during the former government, it also seems to me about 150m euros, this second loan means that reforms in Croatia are carried out especially in this part consisting of two sets of reforms. I think it is important to mention them here, the first set of reforms is to strengthen fiscal sustainability and consolidate expenditure through further promoting fiscal sustainability and transparency through strengthening the efficiency of public administration and strengthening fiscal discipline in the health system, strengthening the efficiency and efficiency of social benefits, focusing spending on carefully selected programmes and streamlining the social protection network, strengthening justice, financial stability of the pension system. The second set of reforms that had to be satisfied to be able to sign this loan, i.e. to be approved, is to create a stimulating environment for private sector growth, which would include a programme of reforms that are 4 groups of reforms, i.e. flexibility of the labour market and incentives for demanding participation in the labour market, reducing administrative and regulatory barriers to business, reducing the share of ownership in state-owned enterprises, and by strengthening the framework for investment. So all the laws they defined, and you see which broad area of the social, pension and health systems, the fiscal system had to be implemented, so they had to be law enforcement all these laws of the law are passed in this House of Commons. So this is not a loan as we say it is a loan for a certain kind of loan, not to say a certain type of credit, but a loan as the name itself speaks the development policy of economic recovery. For him too, reforms had to be made. So that's actually why let's say such a favourable interest rate, because in these conditions it's certainly an interest rate, for 1.16% of the funding is favourable. And reforms are being implemented, we are now working on new loans with the World Bank in the areas of health care, in social areas. And we think it's one of the right ways to get the funds. So if reforms are implemented, we actually get more favourable funding conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80878	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's. But you answered individually. ... Okay, on behalf of the HDZ counseling club, Ivan Shuker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80879	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm extremely sorry that we're discussing these issues this way because in half an hour, the topic will come up and everyone will become public debt experts, the share of public debt in gross domestic product, the borrowing and I don't know what, everybody knows. This is the topic that we can discuss and the level of public debt, this is the topic that we can discuss how to manage through the accounting of funds and loans that we get from institutional banks for reforms and this is the point where we can talk about reforms. But unfortunately we go through this and then some clear and concrete things get into political waters and then, unfortunately, Croatia looks like what it looks like because I say everyone becomes an expert on everything. However, I have told the President of the Parliament this morning that I will repeat it and I will repeat to the extent that this law is lacking, Mr Minister, which is why the fiscal responsibility law was passed in 2010, and that is why you have also proposed amendments to the Law on fiscal responsibility for parliamentarians from the bill of law to see why the money of Croatian citizens is being spent. So it's not true that reforms have been carried out under this loan because the reason here says a nice reform programme is supported by another loan. Therefore, this loan will support the precise reforms that are written at the principle level in point 4. However, if we were to adhere to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, it would be far more detailed why we would spend 150 million euros or almost a billion and 100 million kunas. And another thing, if we do reform, if we're going to invest in whether it's an information infrastructure, if it's something else, it must ultimately have an effect on the budget whether it's positive or negative. Because we can't say that we're going to spend a billion and 100 million kunas to improve and function, and that's what we're talking about, among other things, strengthening fiscal sustainability by consolidation of expenditure, and that's exactly what's being added. And I say that is why it is also a provision in the Fiscal Responsibility Act that the legislator must specify what the funds are used for. Because as long as we're acting like we're doing this, we and that PFU pattern since 2005 where budget users wrote inside, but unfortunately, there's never been any analysis of the consumption of funds whether that's the case and what the effects are all together. Maybe our situation would be different. But if we've already passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act, if we have a fiscal rule, then we should all start getting a habit of what we've brought to respect. Because with full right, tomorrow someone can tell us what you're asking us to do if you're not able to enforce the law as we please. The law was passed three months or four ago, it doesn't matter now that month and we still have laws coming to the House on exactly the same terms as they did before the law was passed. So let me conclude I don't talk anymore. This is an increase in public debt in the future by a billion and 100 million kuna. It's that skeleton from the closet that you can't see directly at the moment when the credit is spent, but it's based on the methodology that you book later and years through the budget and as a expenditure. That the loan is very favourable under all its conditions and is therefore also credited by the institutional banks for the implementation of certain reforms. But it is crucial that we see what would happen, which will be financed precisely by these billions and 100 million and that we can ask after a year or two whether we have succeeded with these reforms, whether these reforms may have to offer the rest and provide additional resources to get to what we wanted, is that what is missing in the draft laws. This is what we miss about real debates and not political bickering because ultimately we can fight because our public debt in GDP is as big and as big or as big and as big as it is, someone will tell us at this point you can't enter the euro zone because of it, but eventually it will be paid by Croatian citizens and Croatian economy. And so I say the elemental thing that the government would have to stick to to tell us what money will be spent on because I cannot possibly accept that this is a further shift in fiscal sustainability and transparency. And if someone told me what it meant because we had that book in a very simple way to try to bring Croatia's citizens closer to budget spending, so it's kind of transparent and open-minded. Then the economic crisis came and these books disappeared, which means this sustainability and transparency of strengthening the efficiency of public administration. Well, I don't think there's a politician in Croatia who hasn't said it several times. However, public administration is a very broad concept and it is not known whether it means education, whether it means health care, then you have a part of the state administration, about 8,000 of them that are pure administration, and then you have a special army, especially the police, especially the judiciary, so what part of the public administration. Strengthening fiscal discipline in the health system, now look, if we were in 2002 to strengthen fiscal discipline in the health system health system, and now someone smart has thought of it, so it's going to pull back from the treasury with a story that he's going to have a responsibility with the funds, I think only someone can say who's never dealt with finances in his life. So everyone who gets their position in the budget is very responsible for these funds, but that these funds are more rationally used as well as the Treasury and health care, it's probably the second pair of shoes. So I'm interested in this strengthening efficiency, strengthening fiscal discipline in the health system is whether it means excluding Mr. Minister of the Health System from the Treasury or that health system remains in the treasure. It's big differences, big differences. And it will be felt at the moment when the health system comes out of the treasure. That's a big difference. So there's something to be said about us not knowing what's going to happen. Strengthening the efficiency and efficiency of social benefits, focusing spending on carefully selected programmes and streamlining the social protection network. If someone translated this to me, I'd be the luckiest man in the world. Strengthening the justice and financial stability of the pension system. Now tell me what, there are colleagues from HSU, which means strengthening the justice and financial stability of the pension system when we know that everything that according to various laws needs to be retired in the Republic of Croatia, that we understand all these people deserve that pension, so that someone doesn't think someone is like this. The difference between what we collect with a pension contribution and what we pay is about 17, 17.5 billion kuna. So what does this reform mean to strengthen the justice and financial stability of the pension system? We have an environment for private sector growth, a covered reform programme that will focus on four groups, an increase in labour market flexibility and a boost to active participation in the labour market. Does this mean a prerequisite for the adoption of a new Labour Act, and why should such money be spent there? Under B, reduction of administrative and regulatory barriers to business. Well, what we just said, public administration reform is probably this reduction of administrative and regulatory barriers to business, a reduction of ownership in state-owned enterprises through privatisation and liquidation of state-owned enterprises. Now I'm really interested in what out of these billions and 100 million will be spent on this privatisation segment. If we said that DUDI finally made a property register, although I claim it is not, if we almost privatised everything that is interesting to investors in the Republic of Croatia, then what will be invested in the money, in which segment. And strengthening the framework for innovation, I suppose there will be a terrible study by the minister of new education because he certainly has more feelings for innovation than the last minister. And this whole story will support a 150m-euro loan and we will tomorrow as parliamentary representatives, especially us from an opposition that we will not have that privilege to know in which direction the government has been going, we will not know what this money has been spent on and whether these billions and 100 million spent on these reforms have produced certain results or not. And the finance minister, regardless of who will be in future times, will receive the soup language of his public debt in some future periods, how much he has grown. But unfortunately, there is no will and desire in the Croatian Parliament to discuss this item of the agenda, but probably when the halabuca comes about how much public debt is and how much skeletons are in the closet, then no one will remember that we have made a decision for 150 million for reforms that no one knows alive will be. And that may be the biggest delusion of these loans in institutional banks where finance ministers are struggling to negotiate them, to get favourable funds, and then later all those who use these funds don't bother to implement those reforms too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80880	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80881	Well, fellow Shuker, you've asked yourself a good question, and I'm wondering what the solution to that justice means, because you and I and all of us who do pensions know that a billion and 100 figures are too small to solve all the problems of the pension system, first of all one of the biggest problems, and that's the current value of retirement. For that solution, it would take at least three times as much as this loan is worth, which I think is probably impossible at the moment, but I hope that one part of that loan will actually be realised under this bill and that at least some of the problems in the pension system that we all know well that there are still going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80882	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80883	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Look at my colleague, Schamper, somewhere around 800-850.000 pensioners have a pension below 3,000. If we're talking about justice, then that's the key thing to me. On the other hand, if we talk about fiscal sustainability, then we say there's no money for it. So saying that it will be spent on greater justice in the pension system doesn't make it clear to me how they think it is, what they think. So that's why I'm saying it's not good ad hoc to list some things because it's about a billion and 100 million kuna that's going to be spent on something. And you, when you look at a little bit of this material, will see, inside is exactly what you can't use the funds to buy which services and goods you can't use the funds of this loan. But that's why it was, and if you remember when there was a debate on the Fiscal Responsibility Act, I think it was Article 3(5) if I'm not mistaken. It was most debated, and this fiscal responsibility law was passed only because those who spend money were responsible for what they spend, that they could not announce that they would share anything if, first of all, the Croatian Parliament had not adopted the budget on a proposal from the Government. And now that you don't respect that provision of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then you're left with these vague provisions. And that's why I used to say in both this first and this law that it just had to happen. The minister may know what's going on, but I've been reading what's written in the law. So I can't know what someone's thinking, I'm reading what's written to me. And here it says that this loan is as a support for reforms, for implementing reforms, and it is a billion and 100 million for how much the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80884	Final Minister Boris Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80885	Thank you very much. Very short. So, you know when, you actually worked last with the World Bank this first loan of 150 million euros, which means implementing it and you can't get it if you didn't do something. So this is done, so it's not like we're gonna have to work. I agree that it's in the very explanation when you don't have complete information then you can actually get the wrong impression. Very short. The amendments and additions to the Fiscal Responsibility Act have been strengthened by a permanent fiscal policy. What has been their objection is for the fiscal board to come under Parliament's authority to be fiscal in that part and transparent. That's when we talk about fiscals. A regulation on job names and complex business coefficients in the state administration has been adopted to level the system of wages in state and public services. The Regulation entered into force on March 2013. The Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act has been adopted to streamline the consumption of medicinal products adopted at national level. Also in 2013. Introducing property censorship. So behind all these points that we have been saying here that the World Bank has approved, that is, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development behind them exists, and I certainly agree next time with the argument that certain measures that the Government has adopted should be specified and adopted in this High Parliament. I'm sorry, I have to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80886	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80887	Mr. Minister, it's easy what you and I are talking about. But unfortunately, some still serve me very well in memory. All of what you listed in the assessment of the necessary funds was zero, or as your prime minister says, ziro. Therefore, if that assessment was zero or zero, then I don't know what we've spent this billion on. I know very well when I was saying what I was saying. A colleague of Lalovac's, and that's why I keep a few things, I never say them for nothing. I know when I'm going to ask again and just close the circle to see that's not it. And no one in this High House likes to make a fool of him. Because you can't say that you're gonna do something and you don't need funds to do it, and at the same time you say a law comes after, and then you say it, we did it, and it took a billion and a hundred million. So that's what this is about, nothing else. And I think both you and I and everyone who participated in the negotiations on the use of institutional banks' loans to implement reforms know exactly how it works. But then when the law comes, say, from health care, someone can't say it doesn't cost anything, and for a few billion, they're beating up some kind of position. And that's why we in the House have to, you in the Ministry of Finance, for your sake, make it easier for you not to be called after everything before you. You must ask those who seek funds to write to you what you will spend money on and what will be the effect of all this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80888	In conclusion, Slavko Linic can do it. An individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80889	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I wouldn't even answer for an individual debate, but given Mr. Shucker's argument, it's very clear. 150m euros or billions and 100m kunas are not the money that will be spent on these reforms. These reforms and changes were the assumption that a billion and 100 million would be obtained. A billion and a hundred million is due to a permanent deficit in the state budget. A billion and a hundred million is that pensions that are paid far more than money can be paid. A billion and a hundred million is the money that's going to be spent because we're paying interest we haven't secured our incomes for. Therefore, the budget gaps that have been created because we have too much interest, because we have higher pension payments than income are which will be covered with these money. Thus, these funds serve to mitigate the consequences of external debt. You can see the external responsibility yourself with the risk of Croatia, it is always far more expensive than anywhere else. Therefore, institutional banks provide more favourable loans to address deficits. Therefore, this is not dedicated money for reforms, but all of this must be done as an assumption in order to obtain favourable loans. Therefore, Croatia simply needs money to fill the gaps in the budget and this is the purpose of these loans, which are also given for structural adjustments in order to mitigate the negative effects on deficits in the state budget. I must make it very clear that, for the approval of this second loan, the World Bank's position was very, very severe in that part of whether or not the loan could be approved before the reform. In 2013 and in good faith, the World Bank did not want to grant the loan for reasons that it was not satisfied with the implementation of certain reforms by adopting certain laws which then provided the assumption that the deficit would be reduced. And when we look at the level of deficits in the state budget and 2012, 2013, then we will see that the primary deficit has fallen significantly, and the primary deficit means that the expenditure side for regular expenditures of the Republic of Croatia is also the cost of administration and health and social and pension systems and individual investments are approaching the amount of income, income, income and income, and there are increasing and smaller deficits. The problem of the Croatian deficit is very high interest on the total debt because these debts were unrealized because reforms were not implemented in time. Which means that bankers, especially the World Bank, are very responsible for not creating new deficits that will only open holes. So personally, as I have participated in all this, I must really thank the entire team of the World Bank and their employees here in Croatia, but also in Brussels and Washington, it is always the desire of the World Bank experts to help the countries in difficulty and to influence the reduction of imbalances in state budgets with their knowledge and transfer of their knowledge. And let's try to understand this loan, he's not only strengthening the external debt, he's not just one new debt, he's a debt that's going to be part of the very bad ones I'd say international loans because of that risk Croatia will reduce, which will still help in payments and interest but they are also a sign of serious, serious programmes and works by experts of the World Bank and people in the government of the Republic who, therefore, have tried everything to do to make these imbalances less. We're a long way from that, but very much working with the World Bank is important to us because it's not just money, it's part of experience and knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80890	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80891	Well, colleague Linic, my intention in the debate was just to provoke the minister to say what you said. Because if I said that money covered the deficit, then I'd be a bad opponent. And I didn't want to, I wanted to show with debate that there are some things we simply want to discuss constructively. But the biggest tragedy is that the minister after, I only said in one sentence in his debate that according to the methodology of keeping the budget of the institutional banks' loans is being run differently. So the part that pays off that year is recorded in the cost, and that is why it serves as such to mitigate the high deficit. And that's what unfortunately colleagues and colleagues who haven't had the chance to participate in the talks don't know. And that's what needs to be written here in a different way. I did because I quoted what was written here as supporting reforms, expecting the minister to say what you said. Because just any credit that comes from the institutional bank is the support for certain reforms. Thus, it will reduce the deficit in a certain way and thus create a prerequisite for the new task to be of some kind lower than the previous one. And in such a way that part of the less-paid interest one who has received such a loan can spend on something else. But that should be said here publicly and openly, and not all the time with some kind of figs in our pocket we're talking about this or what it's like to end up not knowing why that loan went away. And when we start returning it tomorrow to the positions of the Ministry of Finance in that total section, it says how much the World Bank loan returns. So you'll see that in every explanation you've been writing classic collaborations with them since '93, so many reprogrammes have been funded but also somewhere around 2 billion and some more dollars we owe them with that basis. So that's it. But I'm saying one point that we could have discussed a lot of things that we normally argue about here in the Parliament has been practically without debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80892	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Now we're gonna have a break by 3:00 and then we're gonna start with the Final Bill on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80893	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Second Loan Treaty for the Development Policy of Economic Recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 671. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 94 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 671.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80894	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. In front of us - Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 612 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Justice. You've received reports. On behalf of us is Deputy Minister of Justice Ms Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, introductoryly. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80895	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and respected MPs, we propose the adoption of a new Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation on the grounds that our regulation in this area needs to be brought into line with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, very important to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and other international guidelines. It is necessary to comply with the Criminal Procedure Act and with the needs of practice. In this law, we have defined the basic concepts differently. Now we distinguish mental disorder and more severe mental disturbance than the previous definition of a person with mental disorders, so we move from this subjective to objective categorization because the definition of mental disturbances and serious mental disturbances is a alignment with internationally recognised classifications of mental disorders. The psychiatric diagnosis is also a diagnosis that must be based on valid internationally recognised classifications of mental disorders. In relation to the rights and treatment of persons with mental disorders, we introduce a newspaper that refers to the right to vote during their stay at a psychiatric institution. As far as working therapy is concerned, people with mental disorders shall conduct treatment voluntarily, if it is prescribed by the treatment programme and in no way shall it cover the tasks of the medical staff. As regards coercion measures, the principle of proportionality is laid down for the duration of coercion, the principle of desecration, or the application of non-violence measures, if possible, to strengthen the control of the application of forced measures and the protection of persons with mental disorders, in the sense that the psychiatric institution is obliged to report to the Commission on the appropriate coercion measure twice a year, and in relation to the child each time. If the accommodation is without consent, we introduce the obligation to report it and the Ombudsman for disability. We've shortened the time of forced detention at a psychiatric facility from 72 to 48 hours. We are introducing a significant newspaper in terms of mandatory holding of the debate in the psychiatric institution, with the aim of ensuring the right of a person with mental disorders to participate in a judicial procedure in which its fundamental right is decided and that the judge, or competent judge, who decides on it has personal contact with the person. We have also introduced a specialization of judges who will act in these cases in the sense that they will be appointed by the Supreme Court in time of 5 years. The judge is not bound by the art of art, or by the conclusions of art, but by the fact that he can also question these facts and thus be given a more active role. The new old institute that we introduce into the law is a psychiatric treatment at the freedom of an innumerable person, if there is sufficient treatment at large to remove the danger of the re-enforcement of a criminal offence. We do this with the goal of rehabilitating and resociating these persons, but also to give the importance of deinstitutional care for such persons and to prevent their social isolation. We have paid special attention to the rights of children with mental disorders in the sense that we have increased the attention needed in treating them. If it is the offences committed in this action, we have determined a double penalty. The existing obligation to accommodate children with mental disorders is being carried out in separate departments, we have made it even stronger in the sense that the minister is responsible for health care tasks and is obliged to bring in a list of psychiatric institutions that meet the conditions for accommodation and treatment of children separated from minors. The paper in the law is also a binding statement, it is a new solution to Article 2. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and we have also compared ourselves to other countries' solutions. So, each of us, each person can go ahead, and in case our health conditions worsen, empower a person of trust who, instead of us, will give or deny consent to certain medical procedures, when we will no longer be able to decide. Here we avoid unnecessary under the care of persons, just because of the need for treatment and therefore because of the anticipated statements. The paper is also a determination of behaviour, i.e. a newspaper related to the Committee for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, in the sense that it is no longer established by the Ministry of Health, but by the Ministry of Justice, and precisely to stress the protection of fundamental human rights and that it is actually a decision on fundamental human rights. Certain amendments have been made to the text of the proposal in the first reading. It is therefore further prescribed that consent to a special medical and biomedical procedure, i.e. research, cannot be given by a person of trust in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Data from medical records of persons with mental disorders can also be delivered to the court, as well as to the State's Attorney's Office, and this is in line with the new criminal-law procedural powers of the state's attorney. Those statements made by a person with mental disorders cannot be used, and they refer to the initiation of a criminal offence in the investigation as evidence. Time is limited by forced accommodation of an innumerable person if there has been a deterioration of her health status and this duration is up to one year. It is prescribed that a psychiatric institution may propose to the court the dismissal of an innumerable person or the replacement of its forced accommodation by means of psychiatric treatment at liberty whenever it considers that this is necessary in view of the change in the health status of an innumerable person, and the innumerable person, its legal representative and lawyer, has been given the opportunity to submit a proposal to replace forced accommodation by treatment at large. In relation to the proposal to extend forced accommodation or to extend psychiatric treatment at large, more opportunities have been given to the competent court in determining the duration of forced accommodation, i.e. psychiatric treatment at large. The time period of forced treatment of an innumerable person on the loose is limited. It can take up to one year now. It is prescribed that in the Committee on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disabilities, it can be proposed to examine the application of measures of coercion and, to that end, to the Commission, to address persons of trust and legal representative. An extended circle of officials who, other than persons with mental disorders, may request that the psychiatric institution inform the competent court of the application of the measures. It is now a right given to a person of trust and a legal representative. It is also prescribed that a binding declaration becomes valid if it is drawn up in the form of a public note. A statement of denunciation should also be drawn up in the form of a public instrument. In the infringement provisions, we've halved the maximum of fines. This was necessary in view of the financial resources available to psychiatric institutions and to ensure their regular business. And the latter would extend the time of entry into force of this law by 1 January 2015 since this is a new law. It requires a number of sublegal arrangements, and also what we are now committed to, which is what we are intensively dealing with and additionally appropriate education so that the application of this law is as we wish, and therefore consistent with the protection of the fundamental rights of all citizens, so also citizens with mental disorders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80896	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80897	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will present on behalf of the club some of our thoughts on this law and on those parts that we absolutely agree on and on those parts that we want to change, and to that end we have proposed amendments. The Republic of Croatia, with its long tradition of treatment and the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders, is placed in countries that are ahead of us in the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders, and surely this law is the intention of the promoter, I believe all of us to continue to precede this. But often this is not enough because the lack of law and the lack of awareness of the need to apply the law can lead to the fact that the rights of persons with mental disorders are clearly sensitized in the media. The proposed Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions, such as the Proposer, pointed out in line with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms to the Convention on the Protection of the Rights and Dignity of a Human Being, and besides, not to list with all those documents which the Republic of Croatia is signatories and the existing law since '97. which had several amendments, the last one was due in 2002 to comply with national rules primarily with the Criminal Procedure Act. This proposed law is good to strengthen control mechanisms. The intention is also to prevent possible abuse, possible failures that occur most often in both treatment and accommodation of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric or similar institutions and institutions. In addition, there are many new provisions, new institutes, that could be implemented. Additional professional workers, institutions and institutions are involved, and all with the aim of really enabling people with mental disorders of human rights, no matter how many times in the past it has been thought about. Some newspapers in the law need to be considered in particular, and we think that they may need to be improved and improved with the amendment that we have proposed and amended. Accommodation of persons with mental disorders is known as voluntary accommodation in an institution or hospital, it must be written, and the newspaper is accommodation without consent as one of the options and that on behalf of a person with mental impairment this consent is signed by a person of confidence. So it's a brand-new institute introduced in accordance with the Family Law that we talked about last time or legal guardian. In order to avoid such abuse, an additional safeguard mechanism has been introduced to inform the Advocate General of persons with disabilities and, if any doubt arises, to justify such accommodation, the competent court shall be informed. However, we believe that the appointment of a person of trust as a prevention should include a certainly social care centre in that section of the check whether the choice of a person of trust is well-chosen. Also, a newspaper has been introduced at forced detention and forced accommodation and the deadlines for determining the justification of forced detention have been reduced. What should be kept in mind is that it is all very good and well imagined if it is to be spent. In fact, many and good legal regulations fall under implementation. And why am I pointing that out? Because in order to carry out all of this, the deadlines are reduced, in order to inform the court in due time, in order to prepare for court hearings the quality and good medical documentation that needs to be kept and which is in fact a reflection of the treatment for all of this must be given time and sufficient staff. What is good, but the same thing should be taken care of, so that there is no blank letter on paper, everything is notified of all proceedings by a detained person, a trustee, a legal representative, etc. The paper is that they're more of a judge's authority. That the court process can be tied to detention, i.e. deciding whether to remain a person with mental disorders in further accommodation can be conducted not only in the court rooms but also in the institution and can also be appointed as a legal representative, a lawyer to a person with mental disorders. They're named by the Supreme Court judges who should be specialists in forensic psychiatry. Do we have enough of these judges, whether we'll have enough resources and enough time to educate all these staffs, so that's the question that's very often said about the possibility of law enforcement. Certainly, if we declare that we will have to do so, but we warn that we may have imposed a number of obligations some time that may only be used for the purpose of asking for some legal gaps. What is very common in the public, especially in the debates of the interested expert, appeared as a problem, whether it is now approaching the so-called so-called law. the social approach or whether or not it is leaving the so-called medical access to people with mental disorders. I think it is necessary that there is one and the other approach, especially since in different stages and diseases and their condition, it is also necessary that some times this medical approach prevails especially if the diseases are at some acute stage. And when a person with mental disorders with his diagnosis lives for years as a chronic diagnosis, then he needs this social approach where, according to their remaining abilities, not in accordance with the disease and the restrictive action of that disease, he will be able to participate actively in the work process, generally in all life processes or daily activities. What needs to be pointed out in particular was, however, in the old Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, as the newspaper particularly emphasises it is in the criminal proceedings forced accommodation of an innumerable person at 6 months. We think that this is an extremely sensitive provision and that, as a measure of rehabilitation, rehabilitation and deinstitutionalisation, it is very demanding for the social community. Such a measure requires constant supervision of both doctors and psychiatrists and of the person who has given an unscrupulous statement or legal representative, general co-operation and family, ropes and wider communities... then very often, if this is not known, there is a recurrence of some crime which has a very difficult and drastic scale. What is a newspaper is the application of a physical force that is already changed in its name in the formulation of a force measure. The paper is that measures of coercion are only applied in the event of an assessment of the danger of endangering the health and life of a person with mental disorders or his environment. And it's been left out of damage or destruction of property that we think is not good because violent destruction of property is a very aggressive act. You know that when a person happens most of the time, and so to say difficult changes in their health, and it's very difficult to assess when that limit is, when his condition in aggression is going to endanger health and life, or it's just going to stay on destroying property. So it's very hard to know when breaking some big object will damage him or whoever's with him in the room. And what I think, too, is irrelevant, I think that the personal property of every person, especially those with mental disorders, should also be protected for the reasons why these persons are very poor material conditions because of their illness, are very often isolated from the world of work, and the devasting is just as often questioned as we wish by their apartment when and where they will have a place to go after a long stay in institutions and hospitals. I think both reasons are very important to fit that amendment into the law. Because I think sometimes and control, we think that some times and control of freedom, especially if it is in the service of the protection of the person himself, so limiting that freedom can certainly benefit. Also, the amendment was proposed by the institute, which is being introduced, that any person in advance in anticipation of the deterioration of his health can determine a person of trust, it has already been mentioned,... a statement on accommodation without consent. [[I don't understand the language.]] It has a very strong role, it has an advantage even over the decision of a legal representative and we think it is very important that it is also very important to verify in some way the ability, i.e. the good choice of that person from trust whether, indeed, it will be able to represent in the right sense the interests of a person with mental disorders several times, perhaps for either subjective or objective reasons, because of the disease their decision might not be appropriate. I think that welfare center has a way of, and knowledge and expertise to see if that choice is in the interest of a person with mental disorders. Of course, it should be emphasized that it is precisely in such persons that the secrecy of medical records and the protection of personal data is very important, but it is often misused, so to say this information very negatively and very badly echoed when girls from these medical documents and it is good that it is certainly mentioned in the law. It's not just our obligation to pass good laws, it's our duty to create preconditions for its adoption. This law is really demanding, this law has another task to be and implement. However, because we have experience that all the measures of the recession usually start from the weakest. Here the treatment is very demanding, here it takes a lot of psychiatrists, we see that their obligations are getting bigger and bigger in the implementation of this law. Further education is needed not only by judges, but also by other professional workers, social workers, defecologists and many others. Is that what we have money for, and do we have the will to do it together and scout it all out? Also, we need to make sure that new mental disorders occur, because of new social movements, PTSD appears, there are increasing dependence on alcohol, eating disorder, drugs, and I think that this law will have a really big, very often going to be in use. And what I'm saying to end, is that very often deinstitutionalization is mentioned, necessary. It is unforgivable that people with mental disorders have stayed in psychiatric institutions for years, but it should be kept in mind that there is a lot to be invested in preparing them to have a place to go back, that their lives should now be led, controlled by a lot of experts and that it is up to all of us to do so. So until these preconditions are created to return to everyday life, we still have to treat them and take care of the good institutions in which they still are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80898	Time. Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80899	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, counterpart Murganić said that our task was not only to pass good laws but that we should also actually take care of their ability to apply well, or to ensure the application of these legal proposals, and then also talked about the amendments that the HDZ Club will submit. I suppose the government will be very clear about these amendments. But let's just say that the amendment that you have submitted just further complicates the work of certain institutions that you claim are otherwise understaffed or incompetent when we talk about some other legal solutions. So, let's say that the Social Care Centre also performs an assessment of the ability of the proposed person to trust in Article 70, and already in Article 72, it clearly states that the psychiatric institution which is accompanied, therefore, which has experts, specialists, psychiatrists and neuropsychiatricians, is obliged if it sees that the person who has been appointed is not responsible, is obliged to inform the Social Care Centre which, in turn, forwards it to the competent court and initiates the recall procedure. So I just don't think there's any need to put extra burden on social care centres that have enough tasks in line with all the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80900	Thank you. The answer to the line, please, colleague Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80901	Look, when I was getting ready and I was reading the final bill now, then I saw that unfortunately, both my discussion and all of us and the first reading and always the second one was the same because nothing, but nothing at all, especially by the HDZ Club. We have proposed these amendments, I know that there is a high probability that they are not adopted, but just what you have now highlighted, I think that precisely because the social care centre will have a simpler job if it evaluates pre-psychological abilities and some moral or ethical values of a person who will represent a person with mental disorders and precisely because it is not a good choice that ends up with them anyway, and knowingly and preferably the work of a social work centre, and otherwise, to say the parties with whom the centres work, and also the persons of the profession I have dealt with so far, I think that it will better prevent, better in agreement with the professional workers of persons with mental interference to choose their own, so to say, the person of trust or legal representative. And it's always better to prevent it, right now that these centers are given first and foremost, and not to react in a much, much harder way so that something gets complicated. And I saw that article...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80902	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80903	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will remind you that in the first reading, this law has been discussed in four committees, none of which have been declared a parent committee but have been competent working bodies, as well as the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Justice and, of course, the Committee on Law. In the second reading, the Government adopted all the comments of the Committee on Law, so in the second reading of the law, it is nomotechnically normatively much better arranged and adopted part of the amendment, i.e. the proposal made by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and, of course, on the basis of the suggestions given by the Advocate General and the Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. And what I'd like to say on behalf of the SDP club and what I'd like to look back on, I'm going to look right at this human-right aspect of this particular new paradigm that this law introduces in the approach and processing of this issue. The Deputy Minister himself immediately said in the introduction that the need to adopt this law stems from the need to comply with several international conventions, with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and therefore, with the various recommendations of the Council of Europe as a roof organisation for human rights and of course it is necessary to bring this law in line with the Criminal Procedure Act. I will remind you that in the first reading, and also in the second reading, a broad debate has been held and that we have just been involved in the proposed implementation of this law with extensive and synergy of medical and judicial experts of civil servants, but also with representatives of civil society, because the representative of the Association has been involved since the beginning in the proposal for the implementation of this law, we have passed one significantly more quality law than the previous one, and that we have received a proposal for a modern law which, as I have already said, is the focus of access to persons with mental disorders from a medical point of view to protecting human rights and that this bill right balances between public safety, health protection and the rights of persons with mental disorders. Recapitalizing precisely from this aspect of that newspaper and the improvements that the bill made in the first reading will only remind me that the legal proposal prescribes additional forms of protection of the right to freedom as a fundamental human right and which are manifested at the time of the coercion. That these procedural improvements are in the light of the prescribed specialisation of judges of county courts who decide on the procedures of forced accommodation of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions, i.e. institutions that we provide for psychiatric treatment. To ensure that the bill applies a series of rights to persons with mental disorders among other active voting rights. To prohibit the procedures of psychosurgery and castration and that the conditions for determining... the treatment that is conducted in... in Croatia are therefore prohibited, and therefore the conditions for conducting biomedical research are extended. That the final bill improves the provisions relating to the participation of persons with social disturbances in the process in such a way that their presence in the debate is mandatory and that these discussions should be held in psychiatric institutions, and not in courts such as the usual practice so far, and of course the predecessor also said that we are introducing psychiatric treatment for innumerable persons on the loose. The bill therefore improves the protection of the right to freedom and strengthens the importance of rehabilitation and resociation and standardises the area that has so far had different and very unequal practices from different hospitals in Croatia, which is in fact that the health minister has to adopt a regulation governing measures of forced and non-violent measures. After the first reading, this final draft of the law in certain areas, so other than those nomotechnical improvements, brings substantial improvements because the suggestions of the competent committees have been respected and, for example, those with mental disorders are further protected because the medical documentation and statements contained in it, and they relate to the initiation of a criminal offence in the court proceedings, cannot be used as evidence material, and thus time limits the duration and treatment of innumerable persons at liberty or at forced accommodation. And in order to improve their health status in relation to the fact that the treatment so far does not bring improvements, and if it causes environmental security consequences and in that sense, as I said in the introduction, I think that there is a legal balance between public health and public security and the protection of personal rights of persons with mental disorders. The only objection I have is the violation provisions in the clarification. The second reading reduces the amounts of infringement provisions which are regulated in Article 77. The clarification is that psychiatric institutions in charge of implementing this law do not have financial opportunities, but I still do not believe that certain items can be sanctioned equally. So let's say that if we explicitly prohibit castration or psychosurgery then it can't be sanctioned from 20 to 200 thousand kunas as well as inadequately guided medical records or a failure by institutions in this entire chain to report the procedure. I do not have the intensity to reduce the value and importance of these other provisions, which are regulated by Article 77. And there's another problem that I think can be amended, which is article 62, where it says coercion measures are determined by a doctor of psychiatry, unless he has a doctor and a nurse and other medical staff. I don't know what other medical staff it is, I think it would be enough to write that they are a nurse or a medical technician such as that in the medical staff classification of course with a doctor of medicine or a neuropsychiatrist, and that other medical staff such as the Laborants do not need to determine such measures coerce or be there. So with these two remarks, I will conclude that in the SDP club, we believe that this is a really significant step in the progress and exercise of the rights of persons with mental disorders to reflect the change of paradigm in access to persons with mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia, leaving only medical access and replacing it with an inclusive medical legal and social model. Therefore, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80904	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80905	Well, here's my colleague, I've decided to replicate with you to share this thinking with you as well as other medical staff. It would be and I'll agree with you that it's really problematic. In fact, people with mental disorders are not only placed in health and psychiatric institutions. They are also located in social institutions especially when they are in this kind of chronic phase and stay in these institutions for a long time, and these very social institutions are sub-supposed with healthcare professionals especially with doctors... I say they are almost inaccessible psychiatrist. It is clear to me that they must stay in social institutions, but when I criticized that law's enforceability is not because I have an evil intention and that I believe that we are not worthy of the laws set at a very high level where all these rights are protected, or where all the principles are represented, but only because I am very aware if we are sub-scribed to the extent that we are staffed, how poor we are for medicines and for many things. And I don't know if I'd agree with you right now if you need other medical personnel, because social care institutions with such patients are nurses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80906	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80907	Well, I really think, and I think that I can speak in a certain way competently enough about it because I've graduated from medical school, and I don't think that the nurses are qualified to determine the measures of coercion. I understand that in a good part of the Croatian laws showing the implementation of the Government, a normative optimism, and in this context, I have spoken and made an objection to your amendment regarding the additional burden that you propose to the Centre for Social Care, but I prefer to advocate that we have this normative optimism which must of course be precise, so I said that the legal solution and formulation of this article should be precise because I think that other health care staff that can even be included in the health care staff can determine such important measures as the measures of coercion because we deprive them of freedom and individuality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80908	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80909	Dear Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In modern societies, the legal position of persons with mental disorders is defined by laws that define their rights and regulate the conditions for the application of medical procedures towards them are significant legal mechanisms in the function of protecting this category of persons. The special protection that society must provide stems from the fact that it is about persons who because of their insufficient... competences need, above all, the support and assistance of society, often and the treatment and sometimes the supervision of their behaviour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As an absolute newspaper in Croatian psychiatric legislation, I particularly single out the introduction of a binding statement that significantly extends the rights of psychiatric patients and to a future period in which they may no longer have the ability to decide on their rights in real time, but these powers will be passed on to a person of confidence. Even though we can predict that practical application and the newspaper will not be a bit simple, based on past experiences with such radical news. We believe that it is justified and that all experience so far should not be an argument to keep it at lower legislative standards but rather to ensure that the joint efforts of all competent state bodies and institutions such as psychiatric and judicial institutions are made possible. The relationship between a doctor and a patient is a fundamental prerequisite for any successful treatment. In order to establish such a relationship, it is necessary for the patient to believe that the data he presented about himself during treatment will not be revealed to third parties. Patients are often in an emergency situation that forces them to provide personal and very intimate data from their private life that they would like to remain undiscovered. In order to encourage them to seek medical help, it is necessary to provide them with explicit and consistent respect for the obligation to keep medical secrets. When we talk about medical secrets in a function of protection of the privacy of persons with mental disorders, then that institute gets further on its own importance. This was followed by the applicant, and he detailedly regulated in Chapter V the protection of the confidentiality of data and medical documentation. The law explicitly states that consent of a person with mental disorders to the discovery of knowledge of it during treatment must be written. The possibility of granting a replacement consent to the disclosure of data on a person with mental disorders who, in addition to a legal representative, now has a trustee is limited to cases where data are required in order to exercise the right of persons with mental disorders. The person of trust shall be introduced through a model binding statement described in Chapter IX. Legislative provisions stipulate that only one person who agrees to do so may give or withhold consent to certain medical procedures after fulfilling the legal assumptions. This institute, which will first appear in Croatian psychiatric and legal practice, will certainly open many doubts, however, is about an institute that is adapted and transposed in a very limited way from modern, comparative legislation and is expected to comply with the proposed legal decisions over time. Furthermore, it is an alternative legal solution that can replace unnecessary procedures to limit business ability, people with mental disorders when there are no grounds for their forced accommodation in a psychiatric institution. But further, there are other justified medical indications for their treatment when they are unable to give themselves consent. In accordance with international law, it is a legal institute which currently meets the highest standards. Some of the psychiatric procedures can and should be considered today in the context of their professional, ethical and legal controversy. These are primarily electroconvulsive treatments, psychosurgery and castration and medical, biomedical studies in psychiatric patients. The novelty of using electroconvulsive therapy is that consent to this form of treatment can be given by a legal representative, which allows for a valid law and cannot be exercised against persons who are forced into a psychiatric institution, which has also been possible so far. In addition, the new law calls for a positive opinion from the competent ethical commission. The basic news is that in no way can these research be conducted against non-correspondents. I will repeat what I highlighted in the debate on the bill. Unfortunately, in us there is no properly developed psychiatry in the community and a clear concern of society to help these people within their midst. According to this, the law which has some of the basic declared objectives of human rights protection and health improvement could lead to a reduction in hospitalised patients and an increase in the number of urgent receptions of more aggressive patients, an increase in the need for forensic treatments and an increase in the number of social cases. If that happens then the story of the protection of human rights will essentially turn into its own negativity. Article 12(3) provides that the decommissioning of a business capacity does not constitute inability to grant consent. There's a great danger for a psychiatrist here. Let's assume that a psychiatrist has received an emergency reception at 2:00 a.m. of a person deprived of his professional ability to give written consent. Then after treatment... some unwanted outcome, possibly and fatal, and what happens when such a person consents to the procedure, and then the process results in a negative outcome. In a possible future trial, it is very easy to prove that such a person was unable to give appropriate consent. Besides, it's hard to imagine that for example. A surgeon operated on a person deprived of his professional ability without the consent of a guardian. The term ‘resociation’ is no longer used in modern psychiatric textbooks. Rehabilitation procedures are applied, so rehabilitation should be deleted because rehabilitation covers the meaning of the concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80910	Thank you, too. On behalf of HNS Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80911	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and deputies, the esteemed deputy minister. The fundamental idea and benefit of this law at the same time is the introduction of a principle of protection of the rights of persons with mental disabilities, and in this respect we in the HNS club consider this law to be a significant increase in rights and significant progress when we talk about the protection of human and civil rights of persons with mental disorders. Especially when we talk about situations where we introduce the consent of a person, i.e. the examination of the ability of a person to consent, but also the decisions of the Ethics Commission of an institution, the possibility of attending discussions on forced accommodation, specialization of judges etc., etc. All of these are positive steps that the deputy minister and my predecessors have already pointed out in the debate, I will not repeat. What is also important and what has already been talked about is this Institute of Trustees, as well as that the Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disrupts is no longer appointed to the Ministry of Health but to the Ministry of Justice in terms of transferring the focus from medical to this judicial, or legal aspect. It also seems to us to be a very good and useful and smart move. So the whole story of this law is that the emphasis is placed on the right and protection of the right of persons with mental disorders. However, two things that we would like to emphasise should be observed in the appointment of a trusted person. There were talks about Article 72. The fact is that he prescribes that the psychiatric institution is authorized to inform the welfare center, then the welfare centre is authorized to notify the court, then the court in an extrapared procedure can. So while I've listed it, it's actually past a time that in such situations maybe shouldn't go away. It is a very sensitive situation in which people can be found and perhaps a respected deputy minister should be seen before the vote to be seen in some way or to have some sublegal act as a second option of this procedure a little faster, a little more aerodynamic, so to speak, that it and in practice do not become as complicated as it does on paper in that Article 72. And the other thing we'd like to warn about, which is something we used to say in our first reading, which is that we find it problematic to completely abandon the possibility of applying the measures of coercion in the event of asset endangerment. This similarity with the amendments is quite random, we got them recently on the table, but the fact is that in situations of serious threat to property we could really consider before we passed the law that maybe the amendment to the government in some other way might introduce the possibility of leaving at least a small space of application of coercion measures in some extreme situations if nothing else and it's a pity that we haven't done so far. However, I repeat, we believe that this is a good law, we consider it to be a serious step in terms of protecting the rights of persons with mental disorders and keeping in mind and keeping in mind the support that this law has received from the three defenders who each in their own way are dealing with this topic. And not to be too long, not to take the time, my predecessors have mostly covered everything, we at the HNS Club support this law, with, of course, the desire to try to formulate these two things a little more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80912	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Nada Murganic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80913	Well, here's colleague Coleman, I think it's meant to be really protective, I'm saying the law is called protecting people with mental disorders, and I think we should have one unique attitude to improve this law right where we protect ourselves. We protect first of all from his misjudgement. Any of us can have the wrong judgment. I have to admit, I may be subjective or not well-informed, but we're kind of skillful in some way, and on the other hand, about very important life decisions, we're letting it go without some kind of control mechanism. Now, when's the welfare center gonna react? Whether it is better to react or better when decisions are already made, when these decisions are already causing some consequences. So she's already set up, the shrink's already seen it. So, it's just that we didn't rule out the social work center, but we gave him the same obligation, just at some other time, at a time when he could prevent and along with that person with mental disorders, maybe discuss a decision. In that sense, this is the goal. And I think protecting against some kind of aggression in destroying property is very important. I don't mean to protect the property, but we're protecting the person who's using that property, who's going to need it, who's going to need their families, and destroying it can hurt him. So one and the other amendments are in terms of protecting a person with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80914	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As far as this first part of the trustee is concerned, I can agree with my colleague Mulić that the amendment you are proposing may really add a procedure that has been overcomplicated and too much is. However, somewhere between what we now have in this proposal and your amendment should find a medium solution that allows this choice of a person of confidence at least if it is found that it does not really correspond to the interests of the person who has appointed it, that the procedure is somehow faster and more effective. As far as this second part is concerned, I'm personally speaking, I'm not speaking on behalf of the club on behalf of the amendment. But I would agree here that really some situation of extreme destruction or damage to property could enter this part of the application of force measures, and in that sense, it seems to me that this really great law and really great progress as regards regulation of this matter could, with these two little modifications, become perhaps even a little bit better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80916	Thank you. Next replica, Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80917	Thank you. Actually, I wasn't sure if you were at the opening part when I was talking and answering to my colleague Murganic about, I can see that we all caught the same articles more or less. I didn't look back at the destruction of property. In principle, even though I can personally make some kind of point of view, I could make an agreement. I think our goal when it comes to such a law is to make any ideological or political entanglement and bickering, rather than really make the best law possible. I think that, you see, therefore, my colleague Murganic would have complicated the procedure, and you think this is enough, if it were too complicated. I think everyone here does their job, that Article 72 is known that those who are in contact with persons with mental disorders, with a person of trust who is professionally qualified, are estimating that they are doing so at the Centre for Social Care, which is conditionally said only to someone who is a statusable procedural link, a forwarder, and that then also, therefore, the court decides on the basis of a professional recommendation. I don't think there's room for simplification. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80918	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80919	I actually agree most of the time. I also think that the amendment that colleagues and colleagues from HDZ propose is excessively regulated again. But it seemed to me, so when I look outside like this, it seems to me that these few steps that each of them assumes some amount of procedure, some amount of time, and then this formulation that they're authorized, and correct me if I'm wrong, actually assumed the possibility of not reacting there seems to me that there's space, that experts who deal with it legally formulate the article differently so that the whole story is faster, more efficient, that we don't lose it, that we don't leave space. In fact, it seems to me that this formulation leaves a terrible amount of space for a waste of time. And that's what I'm worried about in that part. So, in that sense, I agree completely with both intent and the way it's regulated, it just seems to me that perhaps procedurally, it should procedurally formulate it so that less space is left for possible waste of time in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80920	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister of Justice. Although we could have expected a deputy or minister of another ministry in this place. But here's the law that proposes and defends and explains the Ministry of Justice. So it's a final proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. Although in this material that we have received in many articles are just apostrophysed persons who care about people with mental disorders in terms of the mention of psychiatrists and other medical staff, and the whole theme of this law is let me say borderline and actually interdisciplinary between, therefore, the application of medicine and justice in this legislative proposal. So let's start right away from let's say the amendment that came here on our benches where article 61 says that for measures of coercion towards a person with severe mental disorders can only be applied exceptionally if it is the only means of removing the immediate danger arising from her behavior, which is seriously and directly endangering her own or someone else's life or health. The amendment places a further decimal and says if it endangers movable or immovable property of greater value. So now here's the amendment promoter asking what's more valuable? It's not defined, so it's not defined which larger value. Is that a pot, a vase, a car, I don't know which one. So the amendment is even fine, but no larger property defined. This will be determined by some monetary amount, or it may say mobile and immovable property that is dangerous, whose use or destruction is life-threatening or health-threatening. And so we can define, we don't have to talk about the value of that property. I think I'm clear. What we talked about on the Health Committee and what the spear was broken about is an article in this 62nd law. This is that paragraph 1 states that the decision to apply the coercion measure is made by a psychiatrist and oversees its application. And in paragraph 2 if it is not possible to wait for the opinion or decision of a psychiatrist because of an emergency, then a decision on the application of measures of coercion may be made by a doctor, a nurse or other medical staff. We were talking about changing this other medical staff. What's the other medical staff? So there was even my proposal to put in medical personnel. So, it's marked in the field of medicine, even though we have 30% to 40% of health care workers, and they're not health personnel, they're not medical staff, they're health care professionals. So, the termology itself or other medical staff has remained little hanging in the air although perhaps we can leave it as it says in view of situations in which a person with mental disorders can be found, yes. So, after the measures of coercion are taken, let’s say another health care professional, then it is mandatory to inform a psychiatrist who will examine a person with severe mental disorders and decide. Although this is when we apply it a little bit in practice, here's the case I think it's all expensive so someone will determine the measures of coercion so they'll inform a psychiatrist and he'll talk to a person with severe mental disorders. It's all about a procedure that sometimes doesn't have as much time as it says here that it should be legally carried out. What is more important, and these are in this law the Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, which according to this legal proposal, and under Article 14, therefore has its rights. And that's what I mean by top European and world standards, really what's written in article 14. Now let me not read, there are 19 items of this law, so that they exercise all rights. Let's start at the end, let's say more significant. Provided support for life in the community, propose a transfer to another if not satisfied with another psychiatric institution, participate in religious and cultural activities, associate with other persons in institutions and/or receive visits. We also know today that there is a person and there are psychiatric departments for now I won't say that I don't advertise any institution in the Republic where there are also persons who are completely isolated by the provisions of a clear psychiatrist and so on. But here it says I can hang out with other people at the facility and take visits. And the other day here I had a request for one single person's intervention in one institution that was said to be completely shut down and completely dissociated, so without contact with the others in the hospital or that there was no possibility and any activity other than in those four walls. I hope that this person, after the talks I have made possible with the director of that institution, will also make a change in this regard. But here it is legally prescribed all the rights that come from accommodations in such an institution, so I hope that this law that I have to say here is, although there is no minister, but there is a deputy, once again commendable, which has included indeed all aspects and segments of the problem of people with mental disorders. And there's really not a lot of regrets, or would seem to be some kind of amendment I needed specifically, it's now a matter of clubs, etc., a person who wants to invest the amendments. But here's this legislative proposal will be on behalf of the HDSSB Club I can speak as the final proposal of the law and without any particular remark. It is indeed a material that is European let me say so even though it does not bear the label P.Z.E. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80922	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Nada Murganic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80923	Well, I would only like to explain to my colleague Grubisic this measure of coercion that is related to the destruction of property. You're absolutely right when you say what property is more valuable, are we not going to know it with some amount? The fact is that we simply felt that it was enough to leave it like this because it is known when measures of coercion are applied and it is known that it represents a greater value. If this happens in a family, it is very important whether a cup fell on him, of course it will not be a drama, but to destroy something important to that family. We stress the material status, living conditions of people with mental disorders is otherwise very bad and in their some events or worsen health conditions it looks very aggressive and very violently. And when it's called or the police, when it's called "help," then it's an assessment of who's trying to protect himself. At the end of yourself and that person. So that would be a higher value. The same question can be asked when health is at stake, when life is at stake, right? These are some estimates that I think must stand in the law of the position of protection of that person. So, I understand your dilemma because we talked about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80924	Thank you. Answer, colleagues Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80925	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you can see if we look at the amendment in which you mention movable and immovable assets of greater value, what is from the medical aspect, so here we won't talk about the value of the property, which is significant, it says in Article 61: "To remove the immediate danger."it doesn't matter how much property there is if there's a danger to a person with mental disorders or to another person around him. So to remove the immediate danger arising from her behavior. So if someone throws a thinner or a sharp object at someone, that object can also be gold, it can be high values, but at that point someone's life is in danger, so that's what's important for the coercion method, for the use of coercion. It doesn't matter what value it is, someone can destroy someone's jewelry ring, if it's someone's high value, it's significant and emotionally connected to it, it's of great value to them, and now he's going to apply force because he's crushed the ring, for instance. I mean, my observation is like this, and now we can differ in our opinions that's allowed, democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80926	Thank you. The next replica of Davorin's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80927	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grubisic, so I expected because of your profession that you might put emphasis on some other articles of this law, and we got involved in exactly what is usually the case in legal practice, which is an expression of greater value. It's not specific to this law, you have it in the Civil Law, you have it in the Law of Property and other real rights. So the whole series of laws uses it as some kind of technical term, although it's true what you're saying is that in any particular case it should be determined which value it's about. I actually volunteered to encourage something else, and I expected you to talk about it. We are talking here about protecting people with mental disorders where very often one of the court decisions and the fact that such persons are losing their business ability. And now we come to the opportunity to read this law, read article 68, and that binding statement where you empower someone to de facto agree on some medical procedures on your behalf, and we forget that in the arrangement of this same government in some other laws, let's say, persons who are deprived of their business skills, are granted voting rights, both actively and passively. So we've legalized in this country people who have no business ability to choose and be elected to all duties, I'm talking about local self-government now, probably the Parliament will experience the same fate, it looks like we're going in that direction. And that's what actually violates the constitutional right of citizens to all have one vote, but on this, this is not a safe area of this law, but it is also a matter of special rights, and I think that regardless of the good intentions to help people with mental disorders should nevertheless bear in mind the fact that they are losing their business ability and that this loss of their business ability has certain consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80928	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80929	Thank you very much. Mr. Mlakar, I only thought about what you were talking about business ability and the rights that this government has given to active and passive rights as in the elections, especially for local self-government. And believe me, they reach the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not just to the Parliament, as you said. But what you said in the section that I would comment on from my profession, the only thing about my profession is Article 16 and Article 17. Article 16 states the use of psychosurgery, and I'm a surgeon, which means lobotomy. According to a person with mental disorders, she's not allowed. So I have nothing to do or comment on. And I agree with that article that lobotomy as psychosurgery is not allowed. And under Article 17, also castration. There's two of me as a surgeon, that's my profession. Therefore, I agree with these articles that neither castration nor lobotomy are allowed, nor would they. And what you said about voting rights, that is, we will really have a chance to argue that we are in contradiction. This government is actually this, well you've noticed as a lawyer, and you as a man who deals with administrative law, and then the electoral one, that's actually your profession, and you've noticed well, so here you can comment on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80930	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, when we talk about protecting or caring for mentally ill persons, or persons with mental disorders, we often think very often about some sort of classical psychiatric care. However, it is a public health problem. And when we talk about human rights about what this law is talking about, then we have to say that it tells us how much we are as a society, or state, a local community willing to do for these fellow citizens. We are therefore responsible to create the best conditions through legislative, educational, and other activities. We'll remember the recent one, maybe last year when we declared the day of the real person with mental disorders. Therefore, we have also shown that our society is still putting care of mentally ill people somewhere as priorities. When we look at this law and we read who was all involved in the drafting of this bill, or who was involved in the public debates, then we can say that the profession has spoken, and the confirmation is given by the three lawyers who have given us the green light for this law. There's a lot of problems when I talk about people with mental disorders. One part is regulated by the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation and I am glad that it is here, we can see us who are not lawyers, but that attention is devoted to the needs of practice. This primarily refers to the possibility of psychiatric treatment of an innumerable person on the loose, then the possibility of making statements on future inability to give consent is a binding statement and an improvement of the office prescribed by voluntary accommodation. Special attention is also focused on improving the text of the final bill when we talk about protecting children's rights with mental disorders. Of course, this bill was a alignment with the provisions, with international documents, and also with the Criminal Procedure Act. When you look here, there was talk of leaving medical access to people with disabilities who were replaced by a legal or social model. But I wouldn't say maybe it's a little bit like this, here it's so written, but we're aware that this is interactive, that we can't say that some kind of medical approach has been abandoned. Here are a few more data in the three-year period from 2010 to 2012 from the Ministry of Health we have data that there have been over a thousand cases of forced hospitalisation of minors, but fortunately there has been no forced hospitalisation of children. And another information from the Ministry of Health that, by 5 months 2013, 3,200 people are in the psychiatric institutions and departments in the Republic of Croatia voluntarily, and 720 with the replacement consent, that means either the guardian or the legal representative. Therefore, this final bill when we talk about the rights of persons with mental disorders located in psychiatric institutions is an additional use of active voting rights during their stay in a psychiatric institution. When we talk about the regulation of special medical procedures that has been said here and biomedical research I strongly support this, there is also electroconvulsive treatment, psychosurgery and castration that my colleague said before me. Therefore, both psychosurgery and castration are prohibited, which is very good, and the conditions for determining electroshocks or electroconvulsive treatments and conducting biomedical research have been expanded. So this is very well put into some control frames. Then it is introduced as a newspaper accommodation without consent. Accommodation without consent is the accommodation of persons with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution based on the consent given by a trustee or legal representative that is so called. Substitute consent. Then, when we look at the part relating to the forced accommodation of persons with mental disorders, provisions are improved when we look at police officers as well. The time of admission of persons with mental disorders to a psychiatric institution is reduced to 48 hours, therefore it is an additional form of protection of the right to freedom of persons with mental disorders. And one more thing about staff, here is the specialisation of judges who in the county courts decide on the procedures of forced accommodation of persons with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution, then the newspaper is to extend the powers of the court who is authorised in the coercion procedure to establish all the facts and to carry out evidence of importance for the decision-making process regardless of the party's proposals. The presence of a person with mental disorders in a discussion that can be held in a psychiatric institution is very important. In practice, the debates were held without the presence of such a person in the premises of the most common court, and such persons were decided, or were not present in the machining proceedings. This is what I'm saying now. Then let's say one problem that was, which is that in the smaller environments when employees of psychiatric institutions who decided to force the detention of persons with mental disorders, they were also witches who were not well. She would say something else when we talk about the innumerable nature of the person in the criminal proceedings then it was introduced as a newspaper psychiatric treatment of an innumerable person on the loose. This treatment determines the court in criminal proceedings when the criteria for forced accommodation of an innumerable person are met. Of course, this is very important for both rehabilitation and rehabilitation, so this can be especially welcomed. When we talk about coercion measures, it is limited to apply coercion measures to people with severe mental disorders. They may only be used if it is the only means of removing the immediate danger arising from its behaviour that seriously endangers the health or life of that person or other persons. The law also stipulates the obligation of the Minister of Health Affairs to prescribe special regulation measures of coercion leading to the standardisation of the application of these measures in psychiatric institutions. As a matter of fact, here were the talks today on the application of a measure of coercion, i.e. in endangering material values, i.e. I can also join my colleagues here to ensure that such measures are not abolished precisely because the problem is that the life of that person and the environment is at risk. In the end, when we ask ourselves if something has changed in recent decades, we can say that there have been fewer forced treatments, there are shorter hospitalizations. But is that because of this law we can say all these future laws, probably yes. However, scientific knowledge has also advanced, progress has been made in therapeutic options, new psychopharmacies, new psychosocial methods. Therefore, I can say that I support this concept of a legislative solution but I am going back to the beginning when I said that we can't say that this is just a legal or social part but is particularly medical. And generally with people with psychological disorders, we have to worry about more aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80932	Thank you, too. We'll continue the discussion of Mirela Holly here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I will support, of course, this Final Bill on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation because I believe this proposal brings a great positive step towards the protection of persons with mental disorders. And people with mental disorders are one of the most vulnerable and disciplined groups in Croatian society. I would especially like to commend the promoter, i.e. the Ministry of Justice did not give in to the pressures of a psychiatric profession that was not limited, that is to say, defending ambition, implementing modern solutions as in accordance with international law which gives greater rights to people with mental disorders and restricting the space of freedom and powers that psychiatrists have so far. On this occasion, I will specifically look back at the warnings I received from activists from the Gaj Association that promotes the rights of people with mental disorders. In particular, the association argues that pharmaceutical lobbies led by financial interests required that the amendment amend the provision of Article 20(2) of the Law prohibiting the possibility of a legal representative or a trusted person to grant consent to participation in biomedical research instead of a person with mental disorders. This intention was claimed in the Association of Sjaj, a desire to conduct a study of the medical product code name TRx0237 on subjects with Alzheimer’s disease. It will be able to collect respondents for the survey in accordance with the provisions and this bill, however, all will have to give their personal consent, making it certainly difficult to collect respondents. However, all international standards point out that the well-being of an individual is above the well-being of science development. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities fully prohibits the conduct of biomedical research without the consent of the person over whom the research is sought. As well as Article 23(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes that no one should be subject to medical or scientific experiments without his or her consent, so that the legal representative does not consent. In this sense, activists of the Association of Gaj warn that a still valid law on the protection of persons with mental disorders that was put on the assessment of constitutionality would be lifted by the Constitutional Court precisely because of the obvious instability. It is extremely important and positive that the Ministry of Justice corrected this unconstitution with this bill. It is totally ethically unacceptable and inhumane to use the inability of other people and the inability to give consent to conduct biomedical research. In addition, Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of Family law prescribes judicial oversight to the Supreme Court for the case of other biomedical research, thus not psychiatric, which shows that the legislator pays great attention in this area and protects the rights of vulnerabilities and policies in this regard must be absolutely consistent. Croatia must defend its own sovereignty in protecting the rights of its citizens and resist any policy that calls into question citizens' rights. Because the level of democracy and civil values of society is best viewed in relation to society towards its most vulnerable groups. I am extremely pleased that this proposal tightens the conditions for conducting biomedical research, which certainly places a higher burden on the pharmaceutical industry, which sees its great financial interest in such research. The electroconvulsive therapy in Croatia is currently being conducted in some biomedical studies. And for these procedures, the bill is completely forbidden that consent can be given by a legal representative, which means that only a person with mental disorders can make his own decision. I believe that this caused a very big rebellion precisely because it was easier sometimes to obtain respondents for whom consent would be given by the guardian and then the respondents did not have to ask themselves even when they opposed such a procedure. This has led, and unfortunately even at this point, to serious violations of human rights because of the fact that people without their ability to do anything and that they are not asked about it. And in this sense, I hope that the adoption of this law will improve the position of persons with mental disorders in Croatian society, and in this sense I repeat that I will vote with great satisfaction for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80934	Thank you. The Deputy Minister will finally address us. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80935	Thank you very much. Let me express my personal satisfaction with the string of this debate. I suppose I want to believe that it is the result of the content of the law itself, or of the proposal that we have drawn up. These positive reactions to content are not only going to the Ministry of Justice and I want to share it with those who have worked on making this law and especially with the NGO Glossy who has made a great contribution. The goal was, of course, and I believe that in the application of the law, we will achieve it, to raise the level of protection of human rights to a higher level in our country. We talked about a few questions now in this final debate, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give some clarifications. In relation to Article 62(2), we have received an amendment, we will show ourselves about it, but if I can say it very specifically now, so we have provided for the possibility of deciding for the application of measures of coercion in emergency situations and urgency in the first order of medical doctors, then a nurse, and in the third level another medical staff. We do not consider this problematic because I say this is about situations of threat and extraordinary circumstances, and what is the fuse under this provision is a further continuation of the content of paragraph 2. So which are required to inform the psychiatrist immediately, and he will review the person with serious mental disorders and decide on further application of the force measure. We therefore consider that we have given sufficient level of insurance from the possible misuse of the coercion measure to the fullness of the content of the provision of Article 62(2). What we further had a problem with was the article 70 and the anticipated statements, that is, the proposal that the social care centre here be shown about the ability of a person. I'll repeat, each of us now at this point, while we think we're mentally capable and healthy, we can determine a person who, in the event that such a situation occurs, we won't be able to decide, will make a statement about the application of certain medical procedures. So we are now mentally capable, and if we are mentally able to make such a statement, we are probably mentally able to identify a person who is now the same that gives the right indication. We introduced this institute just to shorten the very complicated current procedure. Who has such experience knows in cases where a person is in the phase of treatment and is unable to give an adequate statement of medical procedures that are expected, which are necessary. We now have a situation to open a process of deprivement of business ability, to appoint a guardian, so what we have now of the procedure is so complicated that this is certainly a step forward. We must have the fuses contained in Article 72, so that the procedure is known. We believe that it is no more complicated, that it should not be an obstacle at all, and of course it will enable what is our goal, so to provide adequate medical care when needed. As for the need to consider the threat of property, we would not be in favour of a proposal for such a change, namely, we respected the principle of proportionality. Every human being, every person has the right to protect their dignity and physical integrity. The application of coercion measures is only possible in exceptional circumstances and only if another right is threatened that is so great that it deserves to be coerced against another application. For us, these rights are human life, i.e. health and human existence, life and health, and that would not be property. It was in the debate of speech if a person who commits a threat is jeopardizing himself, yes, if he threatens himself, then we are covered by the threat of his health. But we think that the protection of property is not in proportion to what this is about, so the measures of coercion for a person. I'm going to repeat what I said at the beginning, we care about the implementation of this law, as we cared about its quality design and suggestion. We're working on an education. I will mention it because it is now appropriate, that we have marked June 6th, the Day of the Right Person with Mental Disturbation, and it is marked by education on the subject of this law in which all those who will apply this law interdisciplinaryly participated, and I believe that by the end of the year we will create a proper basis for this law to be good at applying, as you have assessed it well and in the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80936	Thank you too, Deputy. We have two replicas. Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80937	Thank you, Vice President. There is an agreement relating to Article 72, so the motionary or the Government... The justice departments and the SDP club that this, let's say, is an optimal procedure, that it's better than the previous proposal. Something about it was said by fellow Coleman, and I don't think it would be too bad to appreciate it. I do not wish to make an amendment because it is difficult for me to make an assessment, that some things are time-limited, so that in Article 72 of the procedure it remains identical, but to set a time-limit within which the social care centre after it has received application from a competent psychiatric institution, it must pass it on to the competent, or local court. So it doesn't really occur that the protection, safety and health of a person with mental disorders is at risk, because he has an inadequate person of trust, and for some other reason, this object collects dust, for example, at the welfare center, not because maybe someone there is not doing their job, but simply because they are loaded or human beings or what they are. So, to time limit the duration of the delivery procedure, so from the psychiatric facility to the center to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80938	Thank you. Next line, Hope Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80939	Well, esteemed deputy, we're talking about a person's trust check. You said that each of us can choose a person out of trust who, in the event of a possible illness, will represent us. But I think we're talking about protecting people with mental disorders here. So it's said that a person with a mental disorder, so who already has a diagnosis, who's already ill, is going to choose the right person to represent her in the right way. If it's supposed to be a good choice, it'll always be a good choice, then which is why Article 72. I repeat, we know for ourselves and you in article 72 have opened it as an opportunity to come to the conclusion that this choice is not always in the interest of a person with mental disorders. So, why don't we stop, cut the procedure. counterpart Mulic keeps saying we will protect the centre with unnecessary administration. We're gonna cut the procedure because it's a lot easier to prevent something than to solve when there's already been any damage. So this is really about protecting a person with mental disorders. And as for property, our point of view and the starting point was that everyone had the right to everything that we said here was in the principles of writing this law that they used to follow when the law was written. But also, everyone has the right especially to family persons with mental disorders to a dignified life, to a safe home. So, I think that this material damage can also be considered a reason to protect itself in the finality and the person with the mental disorder, to ensure that they return safely to their homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80940	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80941	Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 612. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in the Croatian Parliament. I would like to ask the representative of the Proposer, respected Sandra Artuković Kunšt, Deputy Minister of Justice, to show himself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment No. 1st, i.e. the only one in Article 40, respected deputies?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80942	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and deputies, the Government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80943	Thank you very much, it becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 1 Club of HDZ Representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80944	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes, in Article 61(1), to delete the point and add the following words: "these movable and immovable assets of greater value, thereby extending the scope of the indications for applying the measures of coercion towards the person with mental disorders to the threat of movable or immovable property.". The indication of the threat to property has been removed for the purpose of enhanced protection of persons with mental impairment and since the application of the coercion measure is interfered to the right to protection against inhumane and humiliating treatment referred to in Article 3 and with the legal freedom referred to in Article 5. Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The proposed provision is also in line with the practice of St. John's Psychiatric Hospital in Zagreb, which does not apply itself the coercion measures in case of asset endangerment, and also by supporting the view of removing these indications were expressed by psychiatric experts members of our working group who proposed the final draft law. It is right to propose when it says that the violent destruction of property may endanger the health or life of other persons, however, Article 61(1) of the final proposal already provides for such danger. Therefore, if it is such aggressive behaviour by persons with mental disorders, that this leads to a threat to life or to the health of a person with mental disorders or other persons, then a measure of coercion will be applied because of such endangerment, in which no prior further regulation is required. There is no claim made by the proposings regarding the devastation of the external residential space of a person with mental disorders since this provision prescribes a measure of coercion only applied in a psychiatric constitutional rather than in the residential space of a person with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80945	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Croatian Democratic Community Representative Nada Murganic, respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80946	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, you explained why you refused our amendment. We continue to believe that the government should have accepted it for the reason that this amendment is indeed in the interest of protecting persons with mental disorders. The property either private or social should certainly be protected and we should not avoid it any more which would eventually and thus protect against the inconvenience of persons with mental disorders in terms of different damage compensations, some inadequate, court proceedings or the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80947	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80949	Please state the amendment number one. A party of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 2 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80950	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. It is proposed to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 70(2) and would require the identification of a person's ability to trust in the performance referred to in a binding statement, which would establish a social care centre. The wrong explanation of the applicant is that a person chooses a person with mental disorders out of trust. The same person chooses each person whose business ability is preserved in the section relating to medical procedures, and for the sake of additional protection it is prescribed that a person can only be a fully commercially capable person. In order to protect against abuse, it is just prescribed that a binding declaration be made in the form of a public note. Therefore, in order to verify whether there are any faults on the side of the will of the states which undermine a binding declaration, the provisions of the Public Registration Act, as applicable in other legal matters, shall apply. It is also such an arrangement that the welfare center checks the ability of a person to trust is contrary to the right of each donor to make binding statements on his personal life because it would deny him the right to judge his own aspects of his private life at a time when he is capable of judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80951	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Croatian Democratic Community Club representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80952	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputys, we regret that the Government has not accepted this amendment for the reasons that it is considered to be a preventive measure also in order to protect persons with mental impediment, which is the subject and subject of this whole law, which states in the following articles that, in the event of a suspicion of a psychiatrist, if the assessment that a decision has been made by a person of trust that harms a person with a mental disorder is notified to the Centre for Social Work and Court. Thus, there is still a social care centre involved, and if the checks were done earlier as a preventive measure it is much easier to remove than when possible damages and consequences arise from a bad decision that may have been inappropriately chosen from trust abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80953	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80955	Please make your statement on Amendment 2. A party of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour and 13 abstentions have been passed, P.Z. No. 612.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80956	We continue with - Final proposal of the Law on a single body of art, second reading, P.Z. No. 557. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs. Maya Sporish with Associates. Here you go, Deputy Chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80957	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The idea of a unique body of art for all persons with disabilities has been for several years as we know those present in public. This law shows the will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to arrange this complicated fragmented and for citizens of a difficult access system of skills in which protection of persons with disabilities is provided in different ways depending on the system in which that protection is achieved. In the drafting of this law, the wishes and needs of civil society organisations that bring together persons with disabilities and who eagerly await this law were listened to. The idea of forming a single body of art is primarily based on the need to determine the physical, intellectual, sensory and mental impairment of health, disability, functional and working ability of a person by one institution, i.e. institutions by means of uniquely established methodologies and on a unique pattern of findings and opinions which avoid the dissonance of previous skills through the witches of each of the individual systems. The proposed law is the result of the need to develop uniform criteria for the identification of disability. The process of production began several years ago and in the opinion of the interdisciplinary team composed of representatives of the ministries in which the bodies of art, witches, persons with disabilities, doctors and experts of various branches should take into account the type of disability that led to the assessment of the functionality of the person and the determination of the level of necessary support. This follows the World Health Organization's recommendations on the need to create a social medical model of disability, which is also an attempt to valorise the definition of disability under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is a Croatian signatories. The methodology regulation to be adopted under this law will contain a unique list of damages, hence physical, intellectual, sensory and mental expressed in percentages, and a list of functional capabilities with parameters adapted to the systems in which certain rights for the achievement of which the findings and opinions of the unique body of art are used. In accordance with the proposed law, the single body of art would act as a founding unit of the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which would function at the level of the Republic of Croatia with exposures at the regional or local level. Namely, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was established by the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, among others: Skillsing for the Needs of First-degree and Second-degree Procedures for the exercise of rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, maternity and parental support, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, protection of war and civilian victims of war, and other areas where certain rights are exercised on the basis of skills or on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art. The analysis of the existing state of spending of financial resources has shown that, in the relevant systems on the skills of part-time and employee witches, 43 million kuna per year is spent on around 140,000 items of art while it is estimated that the establishment of a single body of training costs of the same number of skills carried out annually would amount to around 38 million kunas. However, the basic objective of this law is not to rationalise resources and costs but rather to make a more accessible system available to those who need skill. With the creation of a unique body of art, experts who are now employed in certain systems in the work of art will be taken into the unique body of art. In other words, experts will become employees of the office. These experts, apart from their basic education, will have a unique education on the principles and methodology of art as opposed to the current situation according to which the art methodology is left to the members of the commission who are professional in their fields but are not educated in the art process. According to the current state, more than 900 part-time experts are used in the social care system alone, which largely raises the quality and uniformity of findings and opinions. Only on the fees of witches in three systems, social care, defenders and health are spent annually about 19 million kunas. By passing this law, all persons with disabilities will in one place carry out an artificial process according to a unique methodology, and the rights will be exercised in accordance with the rules in the pension insurance system, social care, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, protection of war and civilian war victims. Therefore, in the new system, the applicant will be at the heart of all the associated institutions, thus eliminating the person's walk from the institution to the institution in search of his rights. The rights in different systems are also harmonised, informationally linked and coordinated by the work of institutions, costs are rationalised and the efficiency of the system is increased in such a way as to enable the associated institutions to exercise their rights in each of the systems based on the single findings and opinions of a single institution. And finally, since the final draft of the law is the result of the work of several resistors with me is also the Deputy Defence Minister for the reason of interpreting the part relating to the defenders since during the debate in the first reading there were objections in the area. However, it should be noted that the single body of art does not enter acquired rights of defenders, or the percentage of damages, but will only be shown about the health condition of a person in case of deterioration. I call upon you to support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Single Body of Art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80958	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. With us is Deputy Defence Minister Mrs. Wesna Nadj. Here you go, Deputy. You don't want a deputy? Okay. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister of Defence and Deputy Minister of Social Policy. The report of the War Veterans Committee on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Single Body of Art, the Committee on War Veterans, assessed negatively. Three votes were in favour, four were against it. At its 18th session on 29 May 2014, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the Single Body of Art, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 22 May 2014. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 179. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the proposal briefly explained the need to establish a single body of art, which is primarily viewed in reducing administrative costs in uniting the system, removing identified shortcomings and implementing measures from the National Strategy for Equalising the opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 brought by the Croatian Parliament. The differences between the proposal and the final draft of the law have been clarified, i.e. which the comments and proposals from the first reading have been included in the final proposal and the reasons why some proposals have not been accepted have been clarified. An analysis has been carried out on the number and structure of employees, the number of findings and opinions adopted, and on the funds spent by individual systems requested by this committee during the debate on the draft law. It is not accepted that the proposal of the Committee should be omitted from the activities of the single body of art for the purpose of exercising its rights in the system of the Ministry of Defence. It was stressed that the Minister of Defence and Minister of Labour and Pension System reached an agreement on a special council within the unique body of art that will be trained by Croatian defenders who exercise the rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In the debate followed by the board members, they stressed that changes in relation to the proposal for a cosmetic law and that nothing significant has changed. The law itself is vague and vague. The reasons for the need to exempt the art in the defence ministry system from the single body are again stated because the vast majority of defenders have been reported, and only those who seek re-evaluation are left due to the deterioration of the health status after the expiry of the period of two years after the finalisation of the solution and because of the existence of a special law which prescribes the training of defenders in the process of exercising the right of the law itself. No explanations were accepted by the applicant's representatives on the non-prescription and not the introduction of the methodology for the implementation of the art in law itself, and they expressed their opinion that this should have been done in any event. The oral agreement between the two ministers on a special council that will be trained by defenders who exercise the rights under a special law should be translated into a legislative provision which would be clearly defined and defined. The revision procedure prescribed in Article 10 of the Law should be better and more precisely defined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, member of the Committee Zdravko Ronko, conditioned his vote to pass the law by accepting his remarks on the need to prescribe a provision on a special council within the single body of art that will be trained by Croatian defenders who exercise the right under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who should be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by their amendment. After the debate was held, the committee took the majority of votes, as you heard from, i.e. Most of the votes did not support this bill, and we believe that this law should have gone into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80960	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80961	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Deputy, both colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP Club, we actually support the Law on the Single Body of Art. When you look at the practice that is happening today, as far as art is concerned, we have different systems, different ways of determining health damage. Therefore, the unification of the right of that name is achieved in different systems by persons with the same type of health damage. And what we have today in practice, we have six bodies of art. In order to achieve our rights, we have social, pension, professional rehabilitation in education, then employment rights in the employment of persons with disabilities, rights to the protection of war and civilian victims of war, then they are rights of parental and birth support. Therefore, all of these are determined in fact by such rights with some of the aspects of disability. Different legal regulations are also used in their work. When you look at how much money is spent on it, the deputy minister said in her opening statement about the cost, now I'm going to tell you in the welfare system there are 900 fees in the art, about 25 thousand results are issued. So it's some 14 million kuna plus more administrative staff. In pension insurance systems, it's somewhere along with doctors who are witches, social workers, defecologists, psychologists, it's about 22 million kunas. When you speak at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, it also spends about 4.5 million kuna. The defense attorney has 61 fees, an expert plus an administration of about 3 million kunas, etc. etc. That we don't list the system by system. Thus, some 43 million kunas are spent annually. For all these reasons, the need for uniformity of behaviour and determination of damage to the ability, i.e. the introduction of a single body of art, is imposed. Of course plus the methodology you need. When you look at the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, when we look at the National Strategy for Equalising opportunities for people with disabilities, then both create the obligation to actually create a basis for opportunities and improvements of rights based on disability, and actually propose regulations. When we look at this law, it's one of those obligations. By establishing a single body of art, the art would actually be carried out in one place, thus reducing all these administrative processes that were unnecessary, which existed. The person used to go through two or more systems of art, and unfortunately every time in the new individual systems, it would actually be re-edited. These were, of course, unnecessary costs, and unnecessary obligations for the people involved in the art of art. After the adoption of the Law on a single body of art, it is necessary to access, of course, the amendments to the rules, i.e. the methodology of skill that will actually be made by the Government, so that even out of force, the rules of art are put in place so far. So the result will be that we will have one finding, one opinion, a single opinion in this unique body of art, the rights in different systems will be realised. When we look at the structure, then the foundation units of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will be at the level of the Republic of Croatia, with facilities, local stations. The Centre for Medical Skills would be part of the Institute of Engineering on 1 January 2015. Of course, the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act is expected, since this is set in 2015, means by the end of 14. Also, an analysis has been made by the number of cases, the number of employees, an analysis has been made of what is actually being obtained, how much about a witch will be needed, or how much, the deputy minister told us, how many actually employees will just go to the center. Therefore, there will be some new employment, not so much, but will be used as they are. Here was the mention today, and my colleague Djakic was saying, but I have to say that it is not possible to reduce the percentage of damage to the organism under official duty in accordance with the current Law on the Rights of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their family than can be applied every two years for establishing a new percentage of damage to the organism, and here is our deputy minister, therefore I think we will have answers to all that you have already said as remarks. Thank you very much. Once again, the SDP club accepts this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80962	Thank you. We have registered two replicas, first respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues Bonačić can be audited as well as art. It is one that is performed when the condition of disabled people deteriorates and requires an increase in their disability, then they will go to this new unique body of art. There's one that's been auditing procedures and the Peace Law has prescribed that in a year it can revise everything, all of it so far. So who is the hidden danger that this unique body of art that has no basis for professional expertise made by and experts from the Ministry of Defence, professors and doctors of various professions that otherwise experts have come to knowledge and results that are defeating and talk about how a unique list of functionality as a unique list of damages is inapplicable. Thus, this unique body of art that will use these unique lists and each other will be impossible to establish the disability of all disabled persons according to unique criteria or lists and will not be able to reach final conclusions. In order not to lie to 60.1% of the procedures carried out pointed out that using a unique list of functional abilities and a unique list of damages could not describe the situation. Equally so 17% is partially possible. It comes to the fact that it's 80% inability to evaluate disability, my dear colleague. And I don't know why something is forced when everything isn't regulated and made possible through these professional expertises that would give final results why we're falling into something that won't be justly done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80964	The replica corresponds to the respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80965	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, I believe that you and I are thinking the same way about defenders about the meaning of their rights or the part where we want to help them. However, I must stress here that the methodology and manner of work of witches and the process of art, and is now prescribed by a rule and by a list of percentages of damage, not by law. In addition, a causal link between injury and disease related to participation in the Homeland War has always been evaluated in art, so this causal relationship will also have to be respected in the artisan part of the artisan art. In addition, the Ministry of Defence will continue to decide on the rights of Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War, so I see no reason at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80966	Another replica respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80967	Fellow Members of Šimac-Bonačić from your debate in which you unconditionally support the full proposal of this law, which will later be seen from the debate and from my individual point of view that I have a lot of objections that indeed everyone here in our club and I personally believe that this law really deserves a lot of work and a third reading. But I will look back on only two things from your debate, you said that the law is good in terms of accessibility, so in one place, people with disabilities will be able to exercise their rights or be reported. Indeed possible that they will be skilled in one place but they will receive a document called finding and opinion and with this document he will have to visit again all six or several places or systems where he will exercise his right to get a solution because he will have to go back to health care and social care both in retirement and child care, etc. My question is, how do you think different officials are going to interpret these documents called find and opinion? so much about accessibility, they will be skilled in one place now at every almost centre could be for social work if it was a welfare system or in a retirement-skilled area service, now they will probably go to a couple of major centres or regions, so much the same other availability. And that rationalization in the financial sense, there were a lot of witches because there are a lot of different kinds of damages. You won't be able to have a permanent working relationship with all the subspecies who will be needed for art, because every diagnosis, every person, every damage is a story to themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80968	The replica corresponds to the respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80969	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, I believe you are in the profession, so you have a lot of data or from practice from everything that has been done so far. But I think I've been clear about what this system is bringing in, it brings in one report because all those people with disabilities or people who are being trained had the most objections to have to go through every time again whatever system they come into. That's why it's very important that one finding, one opinion of that unique body of art, will be obtained in this way, and on those financial results, I think I've been clear about all this. Why should so many part-time witches be paid when a more unique system can be obtained in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80970	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Petar Baranovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. One law that covers a very complex and sensitive area which I will dare say has not been defined in Croatia in an adequate way so far and when it comes to the criteria and functioning of the system in which this legislative proposal is involved and neither practical application nor real relationship with affected categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. To begin the findings we all know is that Croatia is a constitutional state in which all citizens should have equal rights in accordance with the Croatian Constitution. And it wouldn't do any good to realize in the end and on this example that those guys who have lost their heads or who have become disabled and people who have a lot of difficulty in further life for this country that they've lost it for something that looks like Orwell's farm where they're all equal but some are more equal than they are. It wouldn't be good, because at least by questioning my feelings in those old times I know that my friends and I left, and I thank God I came back, so I had this happiness alive and well, we went looking for something that was avant-garde, advanced, orderly, perspective, consistent, principled. In this law we are facing the conclusion that so far it is to determine the damages and the real state of people who, on different grounds, are looking for a self-port of society whether they are persons with disabilities, whether it is a right to social care, professional rehabilitation and similar categories, that we have had six different institutions under which the skills were carried out, that there have been hundreds of feebles and a three-digit number of total employees of witches, permanent employees of witches, administrators. But what worries is that it's also a finding that's completely real, which is that such a forest of institutions and such a large number of witches created unequal criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, lack of right or left hands, lost eyes, total or partial seduction, loss of leg, no difference. In real life, there's no difference whether you have it or not. Some have experienced this tragedy in life by sacrificing themselves to emphasize having a neat state. Some have experienced this in everyday civil life, in traffic, accidents, or elsewhere, and some have done jobs such as firemen and railways, fishermen, truck drivers in accidents, in my workplace, and not to list any more. Now, esteeming this specific story that Croatia has been going through, special traumas that accompanied the physical disability itself, Croatian society has decided to and what I consider to be the personally right, Croatian defenders to protect them in a special way. And I can understand that they made a certain difference in benefits or support because it's not benefit, it can't be called that, it's the support of society for people who have found themselves in such a life situation. But that's the thing we've led to absurdity. It is precisely because of the unequal criteria and the lack of criteria that we have today that we have people who do not have that level of physical damage, they have according to the findings of different witches in different institutions, they say certain damages and problems, and I accept that, but those guys who look very healthy some of them, even if we believe full skill sitting behind the bar and with the light drinking of the gemist fill a bet. And some railwayman in this Croatian country who has done his job fairly in the worst years of his life has lost his leg has three or four times less rights and such a level of protection of sports that does not allow a man to live. And then today we hear different comments in this assembly. 17 o'clock in the afternoon that a man doesn't believe. Even if this system that the promoters are proposing would cost more than 43 million kunas so far, which are a coincidence of our own mess and inconsistency if it will equalise the criteria for determining the actual degree of damage, so I'm only talking about the criteria for determining the actual level of damage not of the sport, height, amount, rights that... To make it possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only if we put people and citizens in this country in a position that they are equal before the Constitution and not less equal or equal than the rest of Orwell's farm is the absolute thing that should not be discussed further. The very fact that he went into two readings, that the remarks were carefully considered, so that some of the objections that were made by the opposition and included in the final version made it clear that the proponent of this law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not take this matter on a voluntary basis but paid her due attention. And it would be good for us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament not only to forget not only to respect all people who have experienced such a tragedy, regardless of whether they have experienced it in civil life or in that most honorable invitation, but rather to remember that we are in a state that has a Constitution. Like this or something, but he's our Constitution and he's the foundation of this society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80972	We have two replicas. Dear Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Baranovic, I agree with what you said, but the fact that the Republic of Croatia is the constitutional state as you said and that is why those who unfortunately are not with us today or those who have lost body parts are undeniable and I think everyone is valorizing it. However, when you said that we were all equal, or that perhaps some are more equal in front of the Constitution, I wonder where we were, although I once said that I would no longer mention the Defence Register, I must mention it again. Where we were with this at the time when the Defence Registry was announced, when, contrary to the Constitution and against the will of people who, like you with enthusiasm, went willingly to create and defend the Croatian state, published what was forbidden by the Constitution and all the laws. Why they didn't ask the people who did it when it seemed, so those who freed the country, whether they were for it or not, but against the reasoning that there really is no place anywhere, that we would be more honorable then, that we would be prouder, that our children, our fathers would then be able to be proud of us when our names were written somewhere, and I don't know where. Why we were not all equal before the Constitution then, why this is applied selectively and why it is applied in that way at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80974	Replication response, respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think fellow Miles is getting into that basic thing, which is respect for that category of people we agree on, and they're not a particular topic. They are listed and touched in the context of this law because, unfortunately, they are part of that population that has suffered damage and to which this company is to be given report and to show respect. But you mentioned the question of the Croatian Defence Register, and you intensify things. You and I were in the same uniform, very likely in '91. In the same period, I am personally a great advocate of the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, you are an opponent, and the measure of the matter is that this should be judged by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court should be shown whether it's okay or not. If, by virtue of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court estimates that this is against the constitution, then someone must bear the consequences and things must be corrected. If the Constitutional Court has no objection to that, then we will not play the lawyer, but we will only represent the principle of functioning of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80976	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Baranovic, when you talk about Croatian defenders, I think you're comparing them to the railroad workers who lost their legs doing their job. It is not easy to compare their horrors experienced in the Homeland War and accidents at work, as well as the accident in sports, as well as the accident of the occupier who turned on the tractor and lost his leg. These are the uncompromising things you want to put in the same basket. You would like to repeal the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which clearly and unequivocally states in Article 127 that the opinion and opinion in the first-degree procedure is given by the Council of the Medical Committee composed of three doctors and in the second-degree of five doctors. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which ex-legislators, defines the procedure, the way to determine disability with which, with a war route, with a description and signed by the commander of the victims, as well as the doctor who was in the unit. You're comparing all those victims to railmen, athletes or those who have been disabled and injured since birth. Absolutely inadmissible. And that this law could apply to everyone in the National Strategy to equalise opportunities and assessments that have been written there are so many things that have never been touched before, let alone been carried out or done. I'll just say a couple. No expert... basis for improving the rights with a basis for disability, a draft model for funding, a list for improving rights, a developed expert and analytical basis for criteria and criteria. There is absolutely no such thing as any of it, it goes into something by heart, and it wants to put Croatian defenders in the same rank as those who have been injured by the abolised Chetniks in car accidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80978	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. Time's up. Replication response, respected Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've also reached the abolized Chetniks. Comrade Djakic, one thing is undeniable. And this mandate, and even if there are five more, you and I will never think the same thing, it's definitely not because when I came to Homeland War, when I was 12 months old in '91. Or 11, when the first pay came and given the rank when it put a bunch of money in front of me, I asked what this was. I went to the Homeland War, put all the material resources, the movement of the family's crafts into function, voluntarily, not thinking I'd get paid for it. But I realized later that it's normal for society to take care of people who are on the front and that their families must have a secure existence. And today I realize, I stress, that we have a special sensitivity to this population, and it's expressed, perhaps in someone more or less emotionally, but mathematically exact when you're looking at receiving someone with the same physical damage that they've experienced by defending their country and someone who's experienced doing their job. Do you really think there's such a difference in the tragedy of a fireman who's been killed, saving another man's life and an officer of the Croatian Army who's stopped by the tanks of the abolized Chetniks? No, for me, my colleague, Ivić, it's no different. It was the duty of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, every man to take a rifle and go to the front without calculations. It is unfortunate that gentlemen in this House do not realize that the fact and the undisputed truth was the duty of every honorable man in the Republic of Croatia. I understand it that way, and maybe you'll eventually reassure me because I'm a man who's being corrected. It would be good for others to function that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80980	The esteemed Josip Djakic will speak on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. Well, here we are in front of us in the second reading of the law that, in my opinion, the HDZ club should at least go into third reading, change those things that are absolutely not good and will not bring any good, no savings, and no satisfaction, especially those who gave the most for the Croatian homeland. What am I trying to say? On behalf of the HDZ Club, we will not support this law, although certain amendments wanted to improve it, in order to at least be somewhat what it should be and we are not against this law uniting a single body of art for all five categories that have been injured by birth, whether in sport, whether in traffic, whether in railways, whether in any sphere, and that Croatian defenders are exempt from it. It is the motto of HDZ that we have made a special law on the rights of Croatian defenders in which rights and needs are clearly defined, i.e. permanent rights as well as the way of grading skills both in the first and second stages of disabled people from the Homeland War. And I think that, above all, as I have said in some replicas, that the creation of professional and analytical bases on the possibilities of improving the rights from the basis of disability, and suggest that the appropriate regulations that have been laid down by this law be laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate its regulations on how and how this unique body of art will decide on certain disabilityes that are caused by war, whether by car accidents, whether by sport or by birth or by work of any kind. Namely, the Ministry of Family, Defence, Intergenerational Solidarity, Ministry of Health, Social Care, Croatian Institute of Pension Insurance and Persons with Disabilities as well as others who were activists and in those activities that carried out certain experimental things, which developed certain and professional bases, which worked on the analytical collection of those rights which were obtained with the basis of disability, funding models, making regulations for... rights from the basis of disability, professional and analytical basis for amending and supplementing the rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all things that should have been covered, thoroughly elaborated, and in the end, it should be possible to establish a unique body of art even though in all the expertise they have spent, and now just when this Croatian Parliament wants to hear then we will also tell who has been implementing it and how it has been implemented, which team of experts in which institutions of the Ministry of Defence and intergenerational solidarity at that time as well as the Ministry of Social Care and what results they have brought. In this regard, it is clear that something called the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Their Equality, Rights and the Assessment of That Disabilities has long been accessed in this respect. However, the results applied to the unique lists of functional abilities, as unique damage lists, were carried out over 441 subjects through tables that are clear, visible and available and results are devastating as I said. In 79% of cases, it is impossible to determine the true condition and assess the disabled. And without such unique lists of functionality as well as a list of damages, we bring something called the Law on the Single Body of Art that should be artificial on these lists or by a regulation adopted by criteria, standards by which they will be artificial, and we do not have those standards and criteria. They're not even put into law, they're not absolutely organized by professional and expert teams and they're actually still a dead letter on paper. We don't know how, we don't know what they're gonna work on. We have no expertise from which it would be apparent that in 80% of cases it is possible to evaluate all those groups of people with disabilities in a single body. The law says that existing witches will move to work in that unique body, etc. etc. What bothers us is the Croatian defenders. I said I'll do it again. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders in Article 127 provides that the findings and opinions in the first instance are given by the Medical Committee Council composed of three specialist doctors, and the composition of the Medical Committee Council depends on the type of suffering, wounding, injury or disease. So that's three categories of people with disabilities in the Homeland War. Is it injury, injury, or disease? The finding and opinion in the second-degree procedure that the Medical Committee Council is composed of 5 specialists. The composition of the Medical Committee Council depends on the type of injury, injury, injury or disease. The Ministry of Defence may appoint a number of Councils of Medical Committees referred to in this article to address this issue in the new unique body of art and the role of the Ministry of Defence in the emerging situation. We're passing a new law and we didn't delete these provisions from the old ones, they stay valid. I mean, how is that even possible? This law is an ex-legation only for the rights of Croatian defenders of the victims of the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing. We derogate it by who knows which times, we put out the force of the articles with the new law. I don't think that's legally possible. According to the proposer, each user had to be re-skilled in order to exercise his rights in each individual system, which, apart from the extra unnecessary costs, created an additional unnecessary obligation for the user himself. This law allows the user to exercise certain rights in different systems by establishing a single body of art based on one document, findings and opinions of the single body of art. The expertise would be carried out in one place, which would result in a reduction in administrative procedure and significantly facilitate the person to be trained in the way to the exercise of certain rights. The need to establish a single body of art is justified by the Proposer, as I said, on the rights of persons with disabilities and the National Strategy for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities, which, in the field of social care and pension insurance, sets out as one of the measures to implement the objectives of action the establishment of a single body of skills and the deadline for implementation is the end of 2015. Furthermore, the implementer also calls for the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which is established by the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and prescribes the jobs performed by the Institute, including the taxation of the tasks, i.e. the activity of the body of art. The opening argument concludes that the applicant's intention to establish a single body of art is to achieve a more uniform and fairer way of implementing skills at state level, as well as by reforming the existing system of skills, to contribute to reducing the deficits of the state budget. Such a goal of the law would certainly be to welcome, but the bill offered as a solution does not even serve the achievement of such a goal Namely, [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] Namely, the proposer states that the proposed law regulates the establishment of a single body of art as a founding unit of the Office for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Activity and Jobs of the Body of Arts, local competence for the performance of skills in first-degree and second-degree procedures, the definition of skills and procedures governing the exercise of the rights in which the skills are carried out as part of a single body of art, the experts who conduct the art procedures within the single body of art and their status, other issues governing the work of the unique body of art. [[Sorry, I thought you were done. Go on.]] Unfortunately, this law does not settle any of these questions. The issue of the methodology and the question of the expert on art, therefore, of the crucial importance of the functioning of the single body of art, shall be governed by the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Which actually makes this law completely superfluous. Furthermore, the whole proposal for a law is based on the provisions of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which literally prescribes provisions relating to the activities of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which relate to a single body of art. It is unclear why the unique body of art is established by law, if it will act as a founding unit of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment and the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it is prescribed that, among other things, the name of the establishment units of the Institute is governed by the statute of the Institute. Furthermore, the means of work of the single authority shall be provided in the national budget in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(3) of this proposal of the law, or the applicant shall stress that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. It is not clear from such laws and arguments whether the funds will be provided by the institution or whether the single body of art will have a separate account and its own means of work to be paid out of the state budget. If the funds are to be provided in the institution then it is necessary to stand in the law as the Institute assumes the funds, rights and obligations of the job and workers of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund of Persons with Disabilities. But the fund is financed exclusively from the state budget. Furthermore, the applicant did not take into account the legal obligation of the education of the witches and the improvement of the skills business, which certainly requires certain financial resources. The law is fully written unprofessionally and quite sloppyly. Many irregularities and irregularities have been observed regarding the establishment of a single body of art, and the unclear purpose of this law is especially if it is known that the unique body of art is a founding unit of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. And these issues are settled through the statutes of the Bureau. Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is all we could and saw in this law that doesn't really talk about anything and which will be another of the additional difficulties, especially in the population of Croatian defenders and then all the other disabled ones, because the unique lists of art as well as the unique criteria and methodologies that the Government will prescribe by ministers, I don't know which new ones are likely to propose it, will certainly not benefit the disabled or the Croatian defenders that we ask as a club to exempt themselves from this law and to stay with the work of current legal provisions that the Ministry of Defense has and that it will no longer be that all categories that are needed from the law, from the poorest ones now to the disabled, will likely come to the parents, widows and children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80982	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80983	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Djakić, I agree with you especially in the part where you spoke about the fact that Croatian defenders should be excluded from this system of unique art and because of those arguments that we highlighted, and we can re-emphasise them in this second reading. We made it clear in our first reading why we are not in favour of the single body of art being applied when it comes to Croatian defenders. That this process is practically over, that the savings are nothing or minimal, 3 million kuna is all savings. And the question is whether the entire 3 million kuna is saving and that this process should be completed in accordance with the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences as it has been implemented all these years. Clearly, though, these remarks were not even considered fairly. The fact is that some special commission is now being mentioned within the framework of the single body for Croatian defenders, which can only be said in favour of the argument that we were right. One thing is clear to me from all of this, it is a very small step, i.e. this is the first step in unique art, so that we can get to the unique rights for all people with disabilities and we could hear it from the presentation of colleagues Baranovic who says it is the same to lose a hand or a leg in the war, or to put out the fire. The fireman, of course, has the same problems as the defender, but by choosing his call he chose the risk, right, that call he was carrying. And he is probably insured for his duties, and we Croatian defenders responded primarily to the call of conscience and the invitation of the Croatian homeland. And it's a big and important difference that everyone in this society, no matter how he thinks, should respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80984	Time. The replica corresponds to Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, clearly, the goal is clear. Everything is equal, there is no difference in society, they were all equal only when they were to defend, they were only not equal when they were to create the Croatian Homeland, when they were to stand on the bumper, when they were to give their lives for freedom. We weren't all equal then. One-third of Croatia was defending, and two-thirds are who knows where they were. But don't call them, not all of them are born to be warriors, don't call anyone, and don't ask for any privileges, but all the countries and the United States and all those who have had war in due course have special rules and laws that regulate the status of those who have suffered in the Homeland War as well as families of the victims. That's how this is supposed to be. We don't deny that we need a single body of art for all the groups and we're talking about five that are present. Let the experts, if they find common criteria, criteria that will be possible, but let the Croatian defenders stay in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and members of their families as the category of those who gave the most for Croatia and it must be the way it has been so far, we will continue to force it. And we believe that reason will prevail because everything else will be counterproductive. If it's going to apply to this law that we're seeing in... , to pass that pension law to revise all procedures in a year, and this unique body will be measurable that, then we know who the target is and what the goal is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Saving the budget on the back of a disabled Homeland War, that's not going to go so easy or simple. Because in the past government of the SDP and the coalition, we had examples of 3.5 thousand decommissioned who experienced satisfaction in the court and the Croatian state returned and paid off the interest of such activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80986	Another replica respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakic, I would like to agree with you that you are rightly concerned about the rights of Croatian defenders, persons with disabilities, regardless of what the representative said in the opening statement that these rights will not be touched and that perhaps in the final report she will explain to me otherwise, that there will be no revision of these rights. However, we are witnessing that recently, so in 1.1 this year, although there is a Law on Croatian Defences, applying and applying the Social Care Act when due to the jurisdiction of the military provision that the defenders were entitled to under the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Lawyers were treated in the jurisdiction of the Social Labour Centre and under the Social Care Act, they became guaranteed minimum compensations which some others had not yet achieved, so that former minimum social assistance, so they were called, and so far they have achieved it and will not be entitled to do so under the Social Care Act. Whether this law holds a figurine in its pocket and that the adoption of the Law on a single body of art in one of these roundabout ways will leave Croatian defenders without their rights and every state that has its defenders has given them a special reward and recognition for their merits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80988	On the reply line, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80989	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, that you've well compared me to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, and that's how the law defined the supply in the level of 1902 kuna that no longer exists. We haven't heard from her in six months. If the aim of this law is that the unique body of art can be audited in order for a single body of art to audit all Croatian wartime wartime disabled to be 57 thousand, then we are aware of where it goes and what it aims. The figure in the pocket can be a reduction in the budget for the needs of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. for the purposes of the Croatian Defence Ministry. If so, at least there are rules which would be visible in this law, which would be clear and transparent that a single list of all damages has been made for all categories of people with disabilities regardless of the way and the causes of the occurrence that should be, but there must be additionally that it is a participant of the Homeland War, that its war path is such and such that the confirmation and circumstances of the suffering are you and you. These are things that are absolutely not defined anywhere by this law that are probably not in the next period when if such a law is passed that will regulate the standards by the Government regulation and the criteria absolutely will not be known, and then there is a hidden danger that the fig in the pocket is that it will determine everything so as to God.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80990	Last replica, the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80991	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic is well noticed that the winners of the war are trying to defeat in peace from their own country. Now what, I was a surgeon in the war and defender and volunteer of the Homeland War, and I'm also an expert in a permanent judicial expert in the medical profession. Now I know that there have been different tables in the arts for those who were wounded in the war or who were injured in the war and peacetime those who were physically damaged in peace or disability in peace. Under this legislative proposal, the methodology for the determination of disability and physical damage will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this Regulation does not exist, nor do we know what it will be, what it expects. Your fears are right. I asked this question during the work of the Health Committee, and I was told that all the rights that Croatian defenders now have, resulting from physical damage and disability, remain under those laws on Croatian military disabled. Now I am not to forgive the smart, how to think whether as I was told on the board by the proposings or how you suspect that the government regulation on a new methodology will result in the defeat of those who created this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80992	The replica corresponds to the respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boro, let me explain to you, rights remain, but not disability. It is assessed by the unique body of art, and not by the rights arising from it. And the rights remain in the law. But what you'll get if you don't have any more disability, if your single body of art shuts down by new government decisions. The government's proposal that criteria and criteria that will be that half of those who are now using the right to disability no longer have it. Then neither the criteria then nor the rights can be absorbed if you have less than 20% disability. It's an absolute trap that clearly tells where the objective of this law is. They say not those who already have their rights but only the new ones who are in the process, and in the second pension insurance law, say they will be trained in a year of all pension income users and so will Croatian defenders. So what one says about this law has already been prepared in the second law, and the third is waiting for you in the third law. so that the rights of Croatian defenders acquired and guaranteed by the state, and the rights of defenders are also defined in our Constitution that they will not be touched and that according to the possibilities of the budget they will always be available clearly says that there must be hidden goals, and they are to be as few users of disabled pensions as possible as the invalidity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80994	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister with assistants. Here you have brought to us on benches The final proposal of the Law on the Single Body of Art in which it is the main argument that, instead of 43 million kunas that have been spent so far on various bodies of art in various ministries, it is also listed here, so in the pension system 47 doctors of medical specialists, 16 social workers, 2 defecologists, 2 psychologists and 45 administrators, total consumption at the cost of 112 employees amounted to 22 million kuna. In the social care system, 14 million kuna, 900 part-time warlocks, and 6 administrative workers were employed, 4 million kunas and 3 million kunas, a total of 43 million and 400 thousand kunas in all these various ministries and various bodies of art. So given these costs, given the heterogeneity and rarity of all these artificial bodies, it is decided to create a unique body of art that will then be with 90 witches and other employees to have a total cost of art, travel expenses and everything else in the amount of HRK 38 million, and that is some kind of savings according to the plan of 5 million and 400 thousand kuna. Now we come to those things, and now when a man looks at it like that, he would say great here's the savings, there's a desire to arrange a state, edit a body of art, arrange a way of art, create unique conditions for all in Croatia that there is no difference in the consequences of injury from Split to Osijek, or I don't know which bodies of first degree, second degree in the body of social care skills, and for example. A body of art, e.g. Retirement system. It's all so beautifully designed, but I'm afraid some of the provisions they write here are actually preparing a certain trap that this sweet talk about the unique body of art, a 5.5.5 million kuna could actually cost one category of our citizens. Which is why I and because of suspicion and given the experience of the government's work so far and their decisions can immediately declare that the HDSB club cannot accept this final bill. Why? Because even a body of art has not yet been formed, a single body of art or this institution, and the commission already writes like this, will be directed to obtain an opinion from the single body while the art methodology under which the bodies in question are handled will be governed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What is a methodology and what will be done? The plates? They're mostly 80, 90% important. We had a scoreboard for the disability of the Homeland War at the time they were precisely for the reason you appreciated the way you hurt yourself. So, those who are here are colleagues Djakic and others, so in the Homeland War, people who felt duty, right, pride to go to the Homeland War. These tables were relative to others and different in those values. For example, here I am a surgeon, so I know well, and I'm a court expert. Take a look at every plate, for example. of any insurance company as far as the amputation of the submersible percent comes, do you know? About 40, about 45%. In the table of wartime military invalids, ours, from the Homeland War, they're 60%. Well, that was exactly what we were already saying here that this man on, in his own words, he went to war voluntarily, he was the defender who joined the Croatian Army for the defence and freedom of the Croatian state. And someone was injured on duty, at his job or born or I don't know what kind of disability. What bothers me else is what I see here that the Međimurje association of the blind reacted, you have in the end, we end up here writing which representatives of the interested public delivered their observations. So it says here are the Association of Blind Međimurje County. I don't see that the Defense Department has given its opinion on this law, there is no such thing as not at all, nor does the Ministry of Defense, I don't know who it exists not to give its opinion on this, I don't understand it. But when we talk about this Međimurje or any other association of the blind, then I must point out that the fee for total blindness, so 100% blindness in both eyes, is about 600 kuna. In Bosnia and Herzegovina there are 450 converting marks, 1800 kuna, in Serbia it is about 2300 kuna and more in Slovenia. So are we the state that in the assessment of blindness we are in people who never, for example, are. He won't see his grandson, he'll never see his grandson, who's got a real problem with moving and with everything, we know what that means. Not to mention the experience of Emperor Samuel's army in conflict with the Turks when he blinded 99 soldiers completely and once, left one eye at a time. You know what one of the greatest punishments is to say in life, not see. And the compensation in the Croatian state as far as I know from one friend who is completely blind is about 600, 650 kuna, but good. Anyway, since this is how it is, to say a little bit with the figure in the pocket it is written that the government regulation will regulate the methodology and since I simply do not believe the well-meaning of the Croatian government given all the boredom that came from it, let that methodology first appear and then we will talk about it until then and we cannot be in favour of this legislative proposal. Because of this methodology, there is a big doubt and doubts that Croatian defenders, disabled people of the Homeland War, will remain suspended. As a surgeon, I worked at the Ship's Hospital and witnessed numerous injuries, it's the largest war hospital in the country, 8.5,000 operating people, and I set up a fixator at least the world's record recorder in place, as they say antennas, patients, fixators in the state, over five hundred fixators I've set up. There were various ways of getting hurt. Starting with the fact that a man went with a tank to a bar and turned off the road and broke his leg. Starting with being shot in the inn after playing white and fighting, so there were those who were wounded outside the war zone. They're all clearly taken care of in our Slavonic-ship hospital, but here I think it should be objective to say and see who it really is, so there are different forms of defense and different forms and ways of wounding on the ground and then we see some kind of distinction. Unfortunately, or I don't know which way we can't determine it, and we don't determine since this is how this law is defined, which is written, I'm not going to say it in secret, but from its articles are hidden, but it repeats several times this methodology that will be established by the Croatian Government regulation, and I personally don't like the HDSSB club, and because of this, we simply can't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80996	Thank you. We have one replica reported. Dear Tomislav Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I agree in principle with the debate you had in most parts, especially the part where you talked about the cause of disability, that it must be evaluated in a special way. It is clear and obvious and it is not any special Croatian patent. It can't be not in the degree of disability, the degree of disability can be the same, but the rights that arise must be different for a different cause of disability. And it's not a Croatian-specific. All countries that have had a war experience take great care of the victims of the war, so of course Croatia. And even those countries that lost war take care of the victims of war. So that's what he said I'd generally accepted norm in every orderly world and I think it's good, of course, that's how it is in Croatia. That is why there is a Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which applies exclusively to Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. I personally think that this law should not have come into this House at all, that the problem could have been solved by a government regulation, will be dealt with by a government regulation with a single methodology anyway. So it's not a problem with committees, it's a problem with the absence of a single methodology. This unique methodology could be adopted by a government regulation and would be applied by all commissions, i.e. all commissions. Here's the key to the problem. So I believe that this law is in the end line, although I don't mind that it exists for civilian victims, but also for civilian people with disabilities, but for the military, it certainly shouldn't apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80998	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u80999	Yes, colleague Ivić, I also said that if the degree of disability is equaled with both the peacetime and the military, then the rights that arise from it are not the same because they are the rights that come from the law on Croatian defenders and what is prescribed. Now, a winning army like the Croatian Army and every other army, and even as you said those who lost, lost the war, have special laws for their people with disabilities that come out of that defense status. That's what the defense attorney's office is about. And I'm afraid I'm saying that those regulations that arrive will not be so well-intentioned and I've explained the reason. And finally, let me tell you, I love to read history a little bit, so when the Turkish army won the Carigrad or Constantinopolis or Istanbul, then it was to its soldiers, even though it was old times and three days ago it allowed you to be soldiers of whatever they wanted to take in that city, to adopt as a sign of victory. But here's our army is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81000	We're moving on to an individual debate. First respected colleague, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81001	Thank you, dear Vice President. Respected deputies and ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's one more time I'm going to go over some points of this short bill on a single body of art. We said something now in replicas. Mostly in the first reading I remember it very well, I don't know who else remembers it, mostly the comments are the same because this final bill hasn't changed anything since the first reading and adopted it. Therefore, together with the HDZ Representatives Club, and I see that the HSU Club also proposes that this law go to third reading. We hope that you will adopt this and that you will appreciate a good part of these remarks and suggestions that are indeed given in good faith. It is about the intention to create a unique body of art, to create unique criteria and principles by which all these persons will be trained. It is said in support of this law and that it should be done and rationalized, and always as an argument is talked about a lot of financial resources that, you get the impression, are kind of wasted in a way because it's been very skilled and because a lot of witches have been engaged and they've spent a lot of money. I would just point out that there are 10% of people with disabilities in Croatia and that each of them has some kind of damage and each of them has at least once been on a body of art and it is expected that this percentage will continue to be, the more someone referred to them, some institution, some institution, and each of us has the right to determine its disability and to determine its status as he thinks he could exercise those rights. I'm an advocate to hire young people to hire experts. I am not an advocate of some fees especially in the Republic of Croatia where there are so many young people with high professional training with unemployed and if it will be a professional frame that will work in a permanent working relationship I think it is good. Are we going to have a sufficient number of these experts as it is precisely the professions that we have in Croatia are going to see about it, and therefore more than that list of many experts, many... They won't be able to be in a permanent working relationship, or they won't want to be, or they won't be able to pay them that much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also when we talk about rationalization somehow behind every law that appears in the Parliament in these last months, pops up or some institution or institution or institution, so much as it takes into account the rationalisation of financial resources. We fear that these savings would not have been achieved in the denial of rights, and especially as it is public here already in the second reading, it has not been determined what the status of Croatian defenders will be in the audits whether they will be denied amongst others and their rights. The law has a desire to exercise the right in one place. Yeah, it'll be in one place artificially. Whether it will be only in large centres or only in the centre of Zagreb I do not know. If so, it is so much about the first reason available, so it will be very difficult for all people with disabilities to come to art. There's something else I'd like to point out. If we're going to have at one or several large centres a place of art and we're going to have only staff teams I'm afraid we're going to have large waiting lists of art. So some reorganising ideas are being guided and whether by delaying the time of coming to art, we will also find one of the good reasons to save money. And what is constantly and persistently repeating, and I don't know why the Ministry of Social Care, which knows very well that everything that is done in our ministries is under the Administrative Procedure Act, finds an opinion in the prescribed form. The finding and opinion cannot be a document under which the right is to be exercised and beyond that it will still have to go to certain institutions, in retirement, in health care to give on the basis of findings and the opinion of the solution that a right may be exercised on the basis of a solution one may complain or not complain and then go again to the second-degree body of art which will be governed by this law as well. I'm not saying it's impossible, but you should know that. And one more thing, is whether the regulations, therefore in health care, for child's allowance, in retirement, but I don't know where everyone is going to coordinate that it's possible by finding out and thinking it's possible to exercise those rights. I'm afraid it's going to look like something to me that kids have every right to go to law school. But there's still a lot of colleges, and besides, they're looking for reception exams anyway. So this should be made clear to people when such a law is propagated that the finding and opinion is a document which still needs to be visited by all these systems and these institutions. And what I am of those who really like to believe a lot, but after I repeat the rules in which the rights of Croatian defenders, military supplies have become the jurisdiction of the Centre for Social Work and thus the defenders are damaged. After the Law on Temporary Maintenance introduces an intergenerational principle of participation of grandfathers and grandmothers in child restraints, it seems to me that there is one thing I would say is a recipe in which, in a depriving way, the rights and the categories that are most sensitive. I think there's still plenty of room for the law to really change, to respond to that initial idea to balance, to be available to everyone. And I think the obligation is clear and loud to say whether Croatian defenders, persons with disabilities will be subject to this law, whether the revision will be subject, whether or not their rights will be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81002	Thank you. An individual debate of ten minutes, dear Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to my predecessors almost having nothing more to add. However, I must say, before I began to read the final draft of the law, I looked at his attachment, so the contribution to consultation with the interested public, and on page 2 I read a note with which everything was clear. So she says that in this final, therefore the proposal compared to the first reading has not changed anything except a few technical improvements. I ask myself a question at all why we need to discuss this more, so what we have already discussed after which the final proposal is made as it is and this final proposal does not have to be fooled will become very soon and the law. As Mrs Murganic said, so Croatia has about 10% of people with disabilities, which is also the global average. And artificiality is the identification of different types of damages from mental, intellectual, physical, different categories and it is the basis for regaining rights from different areas of pension insurance, rehabilitation, protection of war and civil disabilities etc., etc. I can even understand the purpose of rationalization. That we are boredom, or still have six bodies of art, with so many witches that it may be technically very clumsy and I am not against thinking that these bodies unite into one body. However, I continue to argue that the art of Croatian defenders, more specifically Croatian wartime wartime disableds, so those who have acquired damage to the organism in the Homeland War, cannot go under a common denominator with all others. Can't get into the same basket of amputations that happened at a hospital in Vukovar in '91. which has its own connotation as it does. From what preceded it, from what went with it to the family, etc., etc. I mean, I'm not that expert, but it just doesn't make sense to me that it can be cold bureaucratic technically said it's going to be an item that carries such a percentage of damage, and everything else we're not going to think about. I agree with you too, Mrs. Murganic, you said that you would like to hire young professionals who will work, but I wonder, we young experts not that we can't hire at the Pensions Office we can't hire them where they should work. So it's about doctors, social workers, we can't hire them anywhere, unfortunately. And soon we'll be without them. Especially since for this kind of skill I think experienced experts need, not only those who have completed the specialization but who have a good, good part of the years therefore spent in different types of professions or what we will call it, who know exactly what it is that I am not talking about doctors and all those experts who are participants of the Homeland War, I am going back to the problem of Croatian defenders, who can easily link some whole story about the assessment of someone's disability, damage or not knowing but something else whose main cause is the Homeland War. One of the reasons was that it was a small number of people left or not at all. In my opinion, that's more reason to keep the status as it is. If they're gone, and I've seen that the estimate is somewhere around 3 million kunas that went to the Ministry of Arts' address in the Ministry's domain, so the defense population, so why don't we just leave it the way it is? Well, we don't have a commission to convene as necessary if there are any such cases. Then why are we throwing money at something we won't need to have maltenes if that's the case? What's the problem with staying the way it is, a committee of witches who can be both part-time professionals, because I think contrary to my colleagues that Honorary witches and are the basis of what's called proper and good skill because every real expert doctor is sure that I don't know how to go through some kind of hospital, through what's really a part of what he's been educated and educated for, and I don't know how to sit at a table and watch some papers where there's not going to be a name or name, but somebody's password or I don't know what. So, talk not to the person but to the papers. I don't know what kind of medical profession they're gonna want to get into that kind of water. Furthermore, I'll go back to what my colleague Baranovic is, he's not here, maybe it's wrong to mention him, it's clear to me that we might want to make this one of these unique bodies of the skills of society equal in every sense. But I don't think there's any privilege here for some who have been in the Homeland War, they've suffered various damages, so they have a commission to them. So we have a law on special regulations called the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. If that's what we found in '94. years, so now for 20 full years, which is then the problem of still being something not by special regulations not because of privilege but because it may be really special because of the circumstances and everything that preceded someone's suffering or wounding or something God doesn't make worse. Why don't we just do it? I don't think it's going to cost us anything, I think it's going to reduce the absolute tensions in society and emotions that go to this point that minority people are pre-trauted. And I agree with the finding, a lot of people called me that until yesterday had supplies, which will never reach the minimum guaranteed fee, I'm talking about Croatian defenders. I don't know why we have to do something again that's going to make people feel like I don't know any more traumas, extra shocks? What do we get by that? What are you going to save as a government, what's the state going to get, who's going to be equal to the same? I'm saying, you've already turned us to a special constitution once where we're all equal and you've given my name that everyone can read because I was a Vukovar defender back then and then and for that. I didn't agree to that. The explanation is, now you can be honorable and so on. I mean, what are we talking about? Here I am asking you nicely if we can't go to third reading, then withdraw this law. He doesn't serve anything, really the way he is. I'm talking about the rights of Croatian defenders, I'm talking about wartime military people. They'll do you a good thing, primarily for that population, you'll do a good thing for the state, the state won't lose anything, but the people, a large part of the population in this country, so the one that created the country will get trust in both the state and its institutions, and maybe it'll all be a good start for all of us. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81004	Thank you. Individual debate, distinguished Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've already talked a lot about this law, but it's necessary to say that the expert teams have written their criteria, everything else have tried to classify and skill in trial skills, with test lists, qualifications and methodologies. And they came to the next, it says that it is necessary to apply the list, the trial application of the list in the process of recognising Croatian wartime invalids from the Homeland War and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, because they cannot in the same way improve all potential rights which confirm valid practice, and with too many categories of lists, it is not possible to obtain correct results, in particular it is not possible to obtain a practical confirmation of the definition of disability as an inability to earn a living from a working disease or injury, and it is not possible to confirm the definition of disability as physical damage. ... The lists do not apply in the area of the rights of Croatian wartime wartime peoples and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, but to continue in this area to define disability as physical damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was written by those interdisciplinary commissions that were implementing and trying to esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the deputy ministers and ministers, they made clear their statement on over a hundred pages of densely written text that this could not be implemented. I don't know why we rape certain things when we didn't do it and when experts and experts, and I may have forgotten when I spoke on behalf of the club to read which ones they are, and you know very well that they're really experts who may be working for you in the ministry today, who are certainly useful and certainly familiar with their work. Why don't you believe them that this isn't applicable, why you want to put this category of people in a position to be decommissioned, why do you want to impose something that can't be applied to everything equally because if these lists of functionality and close damage are not applicable to Croatian military disableds as your experts say. Well, you yourself were in those moments, some of you were in those bodies that signed it. Why argue today? Here I will say who was in the body that was in the ministry, named at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Dr Mladen Lončar as leader, Vlado Jukic, was Vlado Taborski, Ivica Istuk, Velimir Šušak, Vesna Nađ and Miroslav Lončar. And together, they have come to conclusions that are clearly not ambiguous. That it is difficult to apply these international classification lists to Croatian wartime military disableds, that absolutely impossible, there are no detailed descriptions, no categories, no generally applicable moments to be applied to Croatian military disabled. And please don't do what won't be good at all. It won't be good for the population of Croatian military disabled. Apply to those five categories that may be possible, but there are certain disputes and really need to be elaborated professionally and in detail, compare with the international classification list with some other missing supplements if we have them. In 122 classifications that exist, there is something else that is not available in the international world and must be classified to make it functional for this population of people by any disability. But it is absolutely impossible to apply to the rights of Croatian defenders and their damages. I ask you to understand this, read this extensive text that is before you, which as an expert on these experts gets and do not ignore them, it is not those who wrote by heart, it is not those who wrote by any order, it is not those who invented it, they are really applying it to a series of examples by trying to apply these unique damage lists as some new unique body of art, came to results that are defeating, defeating and impossible to apply. And you're still raping and you want the government to probably suggest that they do it best, how best to bring the methodology to the government's regulation. And these experts couldn't do it. I don't know where you draw your energy and the right to force something into action and you don't have the visual results or the expertise of all these experts who are even your associates. Why are you neglecting them? Why are you working against yourself? So we do not force you to do this, we want you to constructively, clearly not, that we will leave the disabled of the Homeland War are a special category in which there should be special state care and care as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. And do not confuse these concepts and do not ignore what has long-term been created in a series of amendments and additions to the law, harmonisation and possibility of applying the best category and justice to Croatian wartime disabled people and everything to be used. We experienced many times overnight because of someone’s uplifting claims, and that each minister’s responsibility for his associates to compensate for the damage caused by his stupid decisions was certainly different. If the minister... had had... all those 3.5 thousand unhappinesses, parents he had denied as persons who had lost children or husbands that he had to compensate them for the damage caused by the state would certainly not have done so... the cuttings he was doing, would not have cleared those who were certainly the first on the line of defense. So today, if you really want to be disowned, be assured that the courts are the ones who will... their own, but it will also cost the country as it did before, with interest, with tight interest, with all the troubles that have been, and the worst problems of lost life, the beginning of suicides of many of these people who were in fear and... the existences were in the hopelessness of their lives, more... commitment, you have ruled for yourself. That's the worst thing that can happen. And don't make these big decisions and laws that don't have rules. The law in which the rules will be passed later, the law by which someone excited by not listening to experts or experts or working bodies or commissions or samples made, you want to put into office a single body of art without clear rules, it is not good, it is bad for the population of Croatian wartime wartime disabled. This is bad for the Croatian state, it will ultimately contribute that your personality in defense of this also has a significant impact, and should not be so unreasonable, we should listen to those who clearly write and, for a reasonable reason, fear that the rules on determining the percentage of damage to the organisms of the Croatian War Disabilities cannot be established through the international classification, so there is much more to be done and the rules that they may be functional, but are now able to assess the clear deaths of those who defended their country. They must be a special category as defined by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, they must be particularly protected because they were also a special species when they were supposed to be volunteers who were selflessly giving their lives for Croatia, and today you place them with the railways, born with disability, you place them in the same basket with those who were drunk in a car accident, you place them in the same basket with those who are occupied by this country, in the escape from it... the tractor lost their leg or arms and become disabled. Today... what they did against the Croatian state in the same will be equally assessed by the commission with those who are the sanctity of this country. It's not good and it's... like that. Don't laugh, don't turn your eyes because that's not appropriate. Listen to those who know, listen to those who wrote these... and who tried to apply what could not be applied to Croatian military disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81006	Time. Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, counterpart Djakic, the message is that the system will be more efficient, cheaper, fairer and fairer. It's a message from this law. We listened to the same message when it was the Social Care Act and when we were the same and then as we were now warning you to exempt the Croatian defenders from the Social Care Act when it comes to supply and you did not want to listen and you will not listen now and we will experience the same things that we experienced after the application of the Social Care Act. I met dozens of Croatian defenders who lost their right to supply, and the right to monthly cash compensation. Most of them, unfortunately, will not even achieve that right. You told us stories about getting more money, that it increased, which isn't true, but a reduced supply of about 300 kunas or how much, I don't know exactly. So, the same story as then, you don't respect and you don't want to hear the arguments at all, at least when it comes to Croatian defenders. The arguments are undoubtedly clear and should only be respected and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81008	The line corresponds to the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, colleague Ivić, the practice clearly shows. They mean nothing to them by Croatian defenders, although at the head of the ministry is the Croatian defender and the Vukovar defender, as they call heroes and we respect that, all the names and all the titles, but the devastation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence is constantly under way. Of that unfortunate minimum social care compensation, of the 1092 kuna that was, it was reduced to 900 and something. Six months no one got it, promises were, they'll increase, more users, fairer fees, none of that. So is this. We're convinced by the demagogues of something that absolutely doesn't stand. And it's not just my opinion, I've been reading everything that's been given to expert groups in the past years in the task, their conclusions, the results of the work clearly say that this is inappropriate. But someone as stubborn as the head to beat the wall, so your ministers beat the wall, so here, they're being replaced today. So will you, I'll beat the wall, I'll get to the end, you'll break your head. You can't break your head on this thing that isn't applicable, if people tell you, it can't be used in 80% of the cases, so why are you so convinced that you're going to do something quality and useful. So we want to commend you, to have concrete indicators, to say bravo, this is really great, this is what you brought and we're going to clap on what you did for Croatian defenders or what you did for the population of Croatian people with disabilities as a whole. However, you have in your head only a suspicion of false, false, false and false and they need to be cut as much as possible in order to... as little as possible on the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81010	Time. Second replica of the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81011	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Djakic and I don't usually agree, but I have to admit, it's hard for me to remember now that the last time we agreed on a topic, probably for you. I agree with the debate your colleague from your club had when she explained why it might be good for her to be a unique body of art. All that talk about rationalizing, cutting costs, it's all good, it's all great, it's great. However, experience tells each and every one of us that as far away from an event as possible from that war, the less understanding we have for those people who created Croatia and who we were proud of at the time. That's what unfortunately is inevitable and that we watch every day. And this part of the text, that's what you mentioned in your reply to colleague Yvic for supplies, and that's exactly what I was going to say, but, well, now we're getting off the hook. But it should be pointed out that it's not about privileges. And as much as I acknowledge the constitutional right that civil and military damage should be subject to the same compensation, but should also be borne in mind by the debate that my colleague Milos had. Well, it wasn't the same thing to run out of legs in Vukovar at Vukovar Hospital, and I don't know if you're going to survive, and now you're going to survive through an administration where you have no names or last names but a code, you're going to decide and look, but it's realistic that he needs what his colleague Grubisic mentioned, ok. They are all unfortunately visionless and 600 kuna is a standard for all. It should be kept in mind and the circumstances in which it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81012	The replica corresponds to Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81013	Well, that fellow Novak, it's hard to believe that no one is trusted. So the criteria for determining disability... the working group at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health, Social Care, Economics, Defence, Science, Education and Sports, the bodies of the state administration, HZMO, HZZZ, HZZO, Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, experts in the art of art and all 7 bodies of art, experts in various branches, doctors, psychologists, defectologists, physiotherapists, social workers and representatives of all associations of persons with disabilities included in the Association of Persons with Disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all of them came together to the conclusion that it was impossible after the expertise, the trial skills with such lists. But today, they're telling us from the ministry that it's possible and it's going to be good. Of course she'll be fine. I didn't hear a colleague say it would be a good law and that unique body of art, but you didn't tell me clearly what you agree with me since I absolutely disagree with this law or agree that defenders are categories that can be equal to all other categories. It's good to mention that Vukovar defenders, but defenders in Pakrac, defenders in Dalmatia, Dubrovnik, and everywhere else where the war was waged, has its specialities with physical damage, also has the psychotraum he has experienced. So there are absolutely no real standards and criteria to make it a functional body so that the unique body of art can work on certain unique lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81014	The last individual debate, the esteemed Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81015	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, there's a lot of that said. I might say this, this is a small law of the 14th articles I think it has but it's a big bite. It's been seven years trying to pass that law. So it's not that easy and it's not that simple because there's still 6 places where art is done to this day. And there are different reasons and interests why it is. This law at first sight small, but hard I support it first and I am for it and that is why I have this unique body of art. I'm not because we're gonna save something, so it doesn't get me wrong, even though it's a lot of emphasis. The savings might be 5 million at least some estimate, I'll cut it in half right now because half of it will go back to the state budget, so then we're at 2.5 million, talking through taxes and contributions. Therefore, it is not so much a reason, nor was it before, but it is certainly a reason why I too support this law the uniformity and justice of the way of art. That's what it's all about. Equality and righteousness. I will not elaborate everything the predecessors have said, but I must say that this law, of course, would, by means of a regulation that would be passed under the law, be resolved and the unique way and the identification and method of work and the way of appointment and the necessary documentation and composition of teams and I don't know how to end up looking at the content of that very file. Where, then, someone who will accomplish by any means based on any pension, health, or health, I do not know where to exercise my right, can do so with a single document and a document that would be even. So it's absolutely not controversial. What this debate is all about all the time is Croatian defenders. Of course we're all equal before the Constitution. But I don't agree with the comparison of the railroad and the Homeland, we had a railroad in '91. We had it in 1891 and we were expecting the homeland for 1,000 years and we just created it in '91. And it was created by defenders, they created it, we can't compare defenders and railists, any honor, I wouldn't want to be misunderstood, but we can't compare it. The railroadman went to school for it, he was insured, he was paid and he went through all the measures and training. The Croatian defender is not. The Croatian defender set out with his heart, courage, love for the Homeland to create a Croatian homeland. And that's a difference to me because they didn't ask what they were going to get, but what they were going to give. So much for comparing and of course we're all equal before the Constitution. What I have kind of pleaded for is the fact that we received one piece of information on the Croatian Defence Committee, which is that the ministers agreed that there would be a special council for Croatian defenders. It may have been able to unite us in some way because we're not going to lose anything and we're going to give meaning, and so we're going to give one certainty to that more sensitive population, turn whatever you want, but that's true. Col. Djakić, he is somewhat concerned that an article of the Pension Insurance Act could be applied and that someone might say let's go with the review of all defence disability, disability, etc., etc. I personally think he doesn't believe that it would have happened in such a way. But there's a fear, and because of that fear, maybe we should be a little more sensitive, more sensitive. So I got one piece of information from the Ministry of Defense that they wouldn't mind either if these six ministries or places where there were so far art, that they wouldn't mind if they stayed within the Ministry of Defence, but they would still be the most in favour of what we said had already been agreed, so the special council that I am now pleading and appeal to, and I ask that perhaps if it was so agreed, which we said on the board that they simply sharpened it, to put into law what the two ministers agreed on for Croatian defenders. The division is too much I wouldn't want us to share in here either on, or we share in defenses, or share defenders. Maybe a little more effort, there's no need to even go to third reading, there's a possibility, there's a variant and there's an amendment to the government, and I think it might go that way. Here's what I said, I see you've picked up your replica boards, here's what I say in advance and I won't answer and you'll replicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81016	Thank you, colleague Ronko. Three colleagues will be replicating you. First distinguished representative Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81017	Well, I thought, too, my colleague, that I would no longer replicate, and I had the impression that everything was said, but here I was being offered a few of perhaps your thoughts that I would share with you, and now as you wish. First of all, I would like to thank you for publicly expressing respect for the Croatian defenders, and this thought is nice to hear as well as your wish that there is still enough effort to prevent any division and that the opinion in which the defenders, or persons responsible for defending the Homeland, should show one thanks and support in one material sense. However, the first sentence in which you said this was a small law and a big turn, here I am, just the little one. A bite, well, that bothers me a little bit. [[Intruder: Snack.]] Just because somehow from this one of ours, I like to say ours, it's kind of my kind of, from the Ministry of Social Policy, they come out mostly out of the blue, we like to say the laws where everything in detail is explained and written. This is a very sensitive issue and topics, and I don't see why it's such a big bite or a big turn, it doesn't matter, it's just a few articles. I don't see the same reasons why you don't settle down, be careful now we're not as important here as we are to the interested and professional public, and the disabled associations have expressed their desire to know how they'll be trained, that methodology and all the accompanying acts are part of the law. Why? Because they are also subject to public debate, and they are ultimately subject to us who can do it in some way if they do not influence, then someone can discuss it. We know that both the rules and the regulations, so all the sublegal acts that are subsequently passed are a final act. Here's to the weather, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81018	Replication response, esteemed Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81019	Thank you very much. So I didn't say turn when I said bite. I just wanted to say how small this law is, and how difficult it is, how complex it is, that it has been done, that it has been an idea, that it's been an idea for the Parliament since 2007, and it hasn't been done. Just because we have this problem and this problem is not easy to solve and I am giving special recognition to the Ministry of Social Care and Youth, but as, I am giving them a special recognition that they had the courage, the guts, the skills and the skills to put this together. But I think it takes so little effort, I know they don't listen to me, but they'll remember, it takes so little effort that we really have a consensus on this law. That little effort should be made for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81020	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ronko, we've been discussing, I agree with you that it's possible to fix this with an amendment to the government. I wouldn't mind, let's just in the law that these bodies of art in the first and second degree, which are now in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, will be in this law and tell the story of the end. That this unique body of art will be with those of the Ministry of Defense in Cohesion, that they will move there and do their job. Who will be the experts, absolutely irrelevant, nor are we setting the conditions, but here we have proposed an amendment to delete that this law does not apply to Croatian military people, it is a HDZ club, but here I am giving you the right to have the government fix this in such a way because I heard today with the Minister of Defence who is in London and told me that unless what we agreed to be accepted I will resign. That's what the man himself told me because he says I don't want to do that anymore. However, I would just like to read what the expert teams are talking about, and that was, I just found paper, I didn't before, I'm sorry, so about these criteria and rules that were and examples were done by Zvezdna Janjičar, Anica Ježić, Gordana Sudec, Ivančica Mamek Jagić, Jasmina Ostojić. These are all those who work for social care, for the ministry, work in various restaurants experts and quality people and should listen to them for real and should be protected by Croatian defenders. Like you said, they're not equal and they can't be equal with all the other victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81022	The replica matches the esteemed Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81023	Thank you very much. Here's what we said in the first and second degree to be in that law, so close, and hopefully not that far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81024	The last replica, dear Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ronko, I respect your thinking about this law and I am convinced that you are truly well-intentioned and would like this problem to be resolved if possible. What I find unacceptable is the thesis agreed with two ministers. What does that mean, agreed with two ministers? It can be worth it today, tomorrow doesn't have to mean anything, it's not the law. The law says one thing, and having ministers agree or not agree on it is a completely different matter and it is not a sure solution to this problem. We also heard about the supplies, so we have increased funds for one-time cash aids in the ministry, so it will partially compensate. It is not the right, it depends on the will of one man or does not depend on the will of one man, as well as whether it will be realized or not. It depends on the two ministers' agreement. It's not a good solution, it has to be settled by law. Therefore, this proposal, put forward by my colleague Djakic, is much better in my opinion, which we have proposed since the first day and since the first reading. All right, let's let the experts do it with a unique body, everyone but the Croatian defenders, and we repeat it now and nothing else. And the fact that ministers agree that the special commission of Croatian defenders is only proof that we were right when we said that Croatian defenders should be excluded. If we weren't right, we wouldn't be making a deal about it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81026	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81027	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think you understand me very well. I did not advocate the agreement of the two ministers, I agreed that it would be mutilated, or the two ministers were the leading two men over the ministries, so they changed the world of my people to you, so that they would not be important and their agreement. I was just about to get that deal into the law, and we got it all sorted out. So if they agree, have that power, have that ability, have that power after all to order everyone down and that we have such a proposal and with such a proposal I think we totally agree. So I wasn't up for the deal, on the contrary, I was against the deal because I wanted it to be cut, that another article could be added, there could be 14 articles left, and 1 item added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81028	Thank you. The final words follow on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, there is no esteemed representative of Grubisic here, and I owe him an answer, i.e. I owe him an explanation regarding the Association of the Blind Međimurje County and that in addition, there is no opinion of the Ministry of Defence in the comment. The D.A.'s office is the government's body. The tables published in support of this material are the result of a web public debate with an interested public and with all due respect that the body of the state administration is definitely interested in this law it is not an interested public. They're NGOs, they're whoever you want, but the D.O.D. is showing itself to the government in his own opinion. That opinion was included and would not have come to the government's session in the extreme and would not have been adopted if the defence ministry hadn't adopted an opinion on this law. So much for that. I have a need to sum up one more time in one place, perhaps when I debated and when I had the opening word, that is, to a little bit, to unwind this whole aspect of Croatian defenders, and I'm likely to be complemented now by Deputy Nadj. I have a need to sum up in one place to see what it is in a unique body of art that will deal with the defence issue. So, if we consider that in the case of a single body of art, and this is defined in Article 5 of this final proposal of the law, it also acts as a team of warlocks on certain types of objects. And if the Department of Defense will act as an audit body, then, in the case of a single body of art, there will be experts who will be, there will be a complex list of witches who, as we say, will be an expert on those defence cases, and with the Ministry of Defense, will be a body for the review. So if we also consider that the single body of art will not enter the acquired rights of defenders, then it will not enter at all the percentages that have already been acquired but will only be required to show the state of health in the event of deterioration. So the percentage can only be increased or can remain the same. I don't suppose we expect a new population and a new inflow of HRV, 18 years since the war, we expect a revision. I think of these audits and that these audits can determine the deterioration, not the lack of rights. But as I said, Deputy Deputy Nadj will complete me, and the esteemed representative Murganić has gone, and I still needed to give for what she said, that she is absolutely right, that the single body of art cannot issue solutions. Yes, exactly, the unique body of art issues a find and an opinion. It's a solution to the issuing body and that's what we've been repeating from the beginning and that's how it is. And let me, Mr. Vice President, at one point, the debate went a little under one law that we're not discussing today, which is the Act of Temporary Restraint. I believe that MPs here will pass on to the MPs Murganic, the obligation of grandparents to support their grandson by a parent who does not pay for restraint there is as much as I have known in the Family Law for 10 years, and the Constitutional Court decision, one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court to one such grandmother's appeal was that he was bound, of course, if he had the possibility of materializing it. And I have a good article from the Voice of the Council that also says that they have an obligation to support their grandson by a parent who doesn't support him, so I can pass it on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81030	Thank you. Now Deputy Secretary of Defense, Honored Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81031	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War are a special category of Croatian citizens. They are guaranteed by the Constitution special protection of rights and therefore Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and in a special law have their place. No rights, rights acquired will be touched by this law. On the principle of legality and acquired rights, they will continue to receive personal disability, orthopaedic supplement, care allowance and assistance from the Homeland War, and those with 100% damage to the first, second groups, third and 80% with certain conditions. When we agreed, it means as the Central Authority of the State Department of Social Policy and Youth on the draft of this law then we had in mind that 32700 Croatian defenders who applied for HRVI status in 2005 were reported. So these were mostly individuals who sought damage to the body and recognition of status with PTSD disease, slightly less with the underlying diseases of the spine, diabetes, and heart disease. The deadline was closed in 31.12.2005 and no longer can be applied with the underlying disease as laid down in the 2009 law. So new recognitions of disease-based status are no longer available. There are now 1700 requests on the medical committees. In earlier years, there were 27 to 29000. So the circle is closed. Only those as respected Deputy Sporish said, only those who apply for new damage to the body every two years can get a new percentage, or greater percentage of the damage to the body if the health condition has deteriorated. No revision can be performed under official duty and a smaller percentage of the damage to the organism can be determined, nor can the termination of the status of a Croatian military disabled with the basis of a valid law be established, nor will we propose it. So the medical committees in the first and second stages almost finished their work. It will be very difficult now, i.e. it would be difficult for a small number of Croatian defenders to form medical committees and do damage to the body, which would be uneconomically, therefore, and non-transparent. That is why we agree that the unique body of art by methodology, which will be established by a special regulation, that the rapporteurs and Croatian defenders who are who they will be every two years, i.e. if there has been a deterioration in their health status, submit a request. Did the esteemed representative Djakic say that the methodology that we have already considered is similar to that of art? Not at all. Why not? Because it wasn't a causal relationship that established participation in the Homeland War. The unique methodology will be established by a specific regulation. The defence ministry will insist on this causal link because Croatian defenders must be reported in relation to the damage sustained in the Homeland War and the disease resulting from the Homeland War. Therefore, the regulation will be on both websites and in consultation with the interested public. And I therefore also call on all associations and parliamentary representatives to get involved in the debate when there is a regulation on the website of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. The defence ministry will insist that this causal link between participation in the Homeland War and damage to the organism is seen from this unique methodology, functional incompetence and list of damage to the organism. We now have a regulation and a list of damages to the body brought by the minister, not a regulation. Therefore, it means a sublegal act of lower rank than a regulation. So, unfounded are the claims that it should be by law because since '94. There was never any law. First rule of '92. the year was brought by the defence minister and the list was an integral part of that rule. When we look at civil people with disabilities, there are also those who fall under the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War, they also have their own rules and their list of damage to the organism. She's been prescribed one of the others, prescribed by the Defense Code. And the list is the same. What's different? It is a different percentage which determines that, for example, 100% of the first group HRVI has 115% of the budget base as HRVI and 100% as a civil disability war. So if the budget base and 3235 so HRVI 100% with the same list has a larger personal disability. That's what makes him different from a civilian disabled war. And that will continue to be because the cause of disability will be verified by a special law, so the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. Therefore, there is no concern that any specific audit will take place within the Ministry of Defence as regards the status of HRVI and the personal disability, since neither article of this law nor of the applicable law is foreseen. Therefore, acquired rights remain as they are and with a percentage of damage to the body from the budget base as is now established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81032	Thank you. On this exhibit, Deputy Deputy Wessna Nadj has been reported three replicas. First honourary colleague Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, yes, a methodology unknown today when we pursue high standards isn't even '93 anymore. It's not '97. It is not 2001. It would be a good thing if it were an integral part of this law, then it would be clear without a game of hiders, without suspicious intentions and without anything else. It's time for the regulation not to be passed to the Minister but to be in law, to be passed by parliamentary representatives. Then it would be transparent, which so far has not been with us or you. Time has passed, why wouldn't it be an integral part of the law? Then everything would know where to aim, what to do, and what to do. That all the requirements for review when a single body of art is established and a regulation on the methodology of not being there will be, there will be not only new cases, this unique body will, on any basis of the application of any of the people with disabilities of the Homeland War, by the criteria which we are not familiar with today and who knows what they will be. Similarly, if a pension order is issued to all warlocks in this new body, they will all be artificial, and they have said that a year since the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act, everyone will be audited, audited. Whether it's just written or it's a real review and a single body of art is a question of all the questions we don't have an answer to today. And if we had rules and criteria in this law, then we'd know what's waiting for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81034	The replica matches the esteemed Deputy Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81035	Therefore, as regards the extraordinary legal medicines you are alluding to, a second-degree and first-degree medical committee in the application could be artificial. So, only in the process of extraordinary legal remedies. Where, for example, a criminal liability is determined by a power of judgment, it is of course to re-do the skill-making process and to establish in the exceptional legal remedies the status of HRVI. For example, we had cases that HRVI had recognized disease and injury-based status. And it was subsequently found that the report of injuries based on the injury was also false in a court of law. Therefore, the medical commission in both the first and second stages determined how much damage the body has now remained from that percentage of the disease. So it will be the same in the case of a single body of art.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81036	Second Replicated Agent Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81037	Thank you very much. Here's you deputies said we'll, I trust you all. You said no worries, I trust you all. Let's just get it out of the way somewhere. Unfortunately, I'm afraid, but here's the amazing thing that my colleague Djakic and I might agree, if it wasn't in the law so far, and why couldn't it be with the law? And that rulebook and everything that goes with it. Maybe we should make a timeout to fill it out, put it together, make it an integral part of the law. It's no problem that I don't trust you, it's no problem that your colleagues don't trust you either, but it's showing up to be one fearsome and precisely in the defense population, in a population that's particularly sensitive. And let's show them we're open, so we can do it. I repeat once again, so little it takes and let's not use it, in the interest of primarily Croatian defenders, then all others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81038	Would you like to answer to the deputy? The third replica is Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Nadj, here's the same thing, I'm sorry, as my colleague Ronko, I don't doubt all of what you said or what Mrs. Sporish said. But the question is raised which each of the Croatian defenders will ask, only why is this a problem to write? I'm looking at article 10, which says, "To find and think of art if it's prescribed by a special regulation, a second degree can be subject to review." What audit? We are constantly talking about disability here, we have people with disabilities in the Homeland War who are working, who will retire tomorrow, who will assess their working ability under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. Whether they will be audited by the body that has done so so far, so either at the Ministry of Croatian Defence or not, whether it will be a unique body that will bring the first and the second, so if I do not know the audit grade. So a lot of things are absolutely unclear here for me personally, maybe I'm not the most professional, but it's really unclear to me. So why don't you just specify these things, write them so that it can be clear to anyone who's concerned, I don't see any reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81040	This replica will be answered by the esteemed Deputy Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81041	If we interpret Article 10 and the revision, then the Ministry of Defence and now has a review of first-degree solutions in the process of recognising the status of the Croatian Military invalid and in the process of recognising invalidity pensions to a single disability assessment committee. The question is, what will be the basis of this review solution? The basis will actually be what Deputy Sporish said and the opinion of the unique body of art in the centre but this, these witches will actually be from a special list for Croatian defenders. I believe that many of our artisans from second-degree and first-degree medical committees will enter this artificial body in view of their experience in the skills of Croatian defenders for the recognition of the status of Croatian Military Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81042	I'm closing the debate on the text of the law. And here today we will stop working We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 next item of the agenda, which is: the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Specific State Care. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81043	Final proposal of the Law on a single body of art, second reading, P.Z. No. 557. The debate on the text of the law is over. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement in the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The final proposal of the Law on the Single Body of Arts will be carried out by the third reading". I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Are you looking for a repeat? Get up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81044	Mr. President, since it wasn't heard at the beginning when you said the third reading, I'm asking for a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81045	It was heard, but we're going to do it again because I was reading the proposal for a conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement in the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The final proposal of the Law on the Single Body of Arts will be carried out by the third reading". Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion did not receive a passing number of votes, was not accepted because it received 32 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 1 abstention. We're going to the amendments now. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in the Croatian Parliament. I would ask the Government's representative to take note of the amendment's Committee on Legislatives on Article 11. Amendment number 1 May.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81047	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 11 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81048	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 to Article 13 of the same Committee of Honored Deputy Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81049	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81050	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club No 1 in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81051	The amendment is not accepted. The role of the single body of art is exclusively to give findings and opinions at the request of bodies which decide on the exercise of individual rights in the system of social care, pension insurance, professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, rights based on maternity and parental support, protection of war and civilian victims of war, and for the purpose of determining the psychophysical state of the child in the exercise of rights in the education system. The decision in the first and second stages on the exercise of these rights remains in the jurisdiction of the competent authorities, for example the Centre for Social Care and the Offices of the State Administration, in accordance with specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81052	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club, honourable representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, in view of Article 1(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, it determines the status of persons with disabilities on this subject, it is necessary to adopt an act in order to allow the person who has accessed the skills and to regret something that the findings and opinions cannot be evidence of status but merely a basis for adopting a solution to the status of disability. Each person shall therefore have the right to request the establishment of the status in the area referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 4 of this Article. We have this regulated in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers where it is well worked out that the first-degree opinion and opinion of the first-degree procedure gives the Council of the Medical Committee composed of three specialists, and already depending on the type of injury, injury, the second-degree procedure of the medical board composed of five medical specialists. And I don't see why it couldn't have been brought here. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81054	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two to the same club of MPs, respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81055	The amendment is not accepted. The findings and opinions of the body of art aim to establish, on the basis of a single methodology, the degree of damage to the art of a person, and the competent authorities which decide on this determine the height and degree of rights that are based on that person and thereby valorise the specific status of Croatian wartime disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81056	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club, honourable representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So in no country where we have war veterans who have had war, there is no single body of art. So the artificiality of persons with disabilities involved in the war is separate from the person, let's say this way with civil disability. In fact, even here before this law was passed, we formed an expert body composed of prominent experts to try to see if this unique list will work and the result is that more than 80% of the cases just can't work. Because a wartime military disability and its cause of disability absolutely cannot be placed in the same basket in the same category as everyone else. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-11-0.u81058	I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 2 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 85 votes in favour and 26 votes against the passed Law on a single body of art in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted.
