ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84960	And now, according to the established agenda, we will move on to the debate on: - Proposal for a Decision on the occasion of the motion for a call for a State Referendum of the Civil Initiative "The Association for Defence of the Croatian Vukovar". The decision is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this decision, Articles 180 to 195. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. Does he want a representative of the draft Committee on the Constitution? Yeah. Dear Peja Grbin, Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Business and Political System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84961	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues under Article 8g(1). The Law on a referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority, local and regional regional self-government, the Civil Initiative "Stor of Defence of the Croatian Vukovar" referred to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the call for a national referendum with the next question Are you in favour of Article 12(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is amended in such a way as to read "Equity of Official Use of Language and Letters, whereby the services of members of the National Minority are carried out in the field of the unit of local self-government, state administration and justice when members of a particular National Minority make up at least one half of the population of such a unit." Acting in line with that request, the Croatian Parliament called on the governments of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of voters' signatures. Following the implementation, the Government sent a report to the Parliament on the implementation of the number and credibility of the voter's signature from the request for the call for a referendum of the Civil Initiative "The Association for Defence of the Croatian Vukovar" stating that the State Bureau of Statistics, with a statistical error of 2.53%, found that 576 388 authentic signatures of voters were collected, i.e. that the signatures of more than 10% of the total number of registered voters were collected. Following such verification, it has been established that the conditions for the application for a referendum have been met and that the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament as a competent working body is in accordance with the provisions of Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament must prepare proposals for appropriate acts and refer them to the Parliament for decision. By acting in the manner described above, the Committee unanimously adopted a proposal for a decision proposing that the Assembly, based on Article 95, be based on its session held on 7 July 2014. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia requires the Constitutional Court to determine whether the contents of the referendum matter are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. It's a constitution to call a national referendum. In the follow-up to the presentation, I will explain the reasons why the Committee on the Constitution adopted this very proposal and referred it to the Assembly for a decision. The Constitutional Committee does not propose such a decision because it has doubts about the constitutionality of the referendum issue. On the contrary, the Committee proposes that the referendum issue be referred to the Constitutional Court for consideration because we are convinced that the request for a referendum is not allowed. During the debate, the question was raised whether the committee and then the Assembly were authorised to take such a position and, with a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of the proposed issue, to state a reasoned position on which it considers the referendum issue illegal, and I find it sad to answer such a question before I go to the reasons for which we consider the referendum question not to be allowed. In his decision of 13 January 2014, the Constitutional Court said "The Croatian Parliament is not authorised to make a decision to decide that the state referendum will not be called." Following such a finding, the Constitutional Court said that "This means that the Croatian Parliament is obliged in any case when it considers that there is a belief that there is an unconstitutional referendum issue to refer the application to the Constitutional Court pursuant to Article 95. Constitutional law." Therefore, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that it is necessary to examine any referendum issue and, in the event of doubt or as the case may be, to refer such a question to the Constitutional Court here. Such a decision shall certainly be binding and reasoned, and that obligation shall result from the provision of Article 214(3) of our Rules of Procedure. So much for whether we are obliged to explain this decision and to take a position on the basis of the referendum issue. So, as I have said, the motions of this decision are convinced that the referendum issue under consideration is unconstitutional, i.e. that its adoption would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to the numerous international agreements which the Republic of Croatia has joined, for the following reasons, "The original basis of the Constitution as a fundamental legal act of the Republic of Croatia is clearly and unequivocally defined as the national state of the Croatian people and states of the National Minorities, in which members of all national minorities are guaranteed the freedom of expression of nationality, free to serve their language and letter and cultural autonomy." Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the National Minority Protection Framework Convention, which Article 10(2). It prescribes "that in areas that are traditionally or in a significant number belong to the National Minority, if requested by those persons, and where such a request corresponds to the real need, the party will specify how much it is possible to ensure conditions that will allow the use of minority language in the handling of those persons with authorities." The Advisory Committee for this Convention interpreted the same article in a way that "Number thresholds should not constitute an inappropriate obstacle to the official use of certain minority languages in areas where members of national minorities live, whether indigenous or in a significant number." In particular, the Framework Convention requires that the minority community in a given area whose population is at least half the population as a prerequisite for the approval of the official use of the minority language. Such or similar provisions exist in other international documents which are signatories or members of the Republic of Croatia, such as the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, the Instrument for Central European Initiative for the Protection of Minority Rights, the Declaration on the Rights of Persons belonging to national or ethnic religious minorities, etc. However, to implement Article 12, paragraph 1 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Republic of Croatia is now committed to the EU accession process, and such an obligation by the Republic of Croatia is explicitly incorporated into the Accession Treaty. In Annex 7, which is under special monitoring by the European Commission, specific obligations made by the Republic of Croatia in accession negotiations, 7 continue and strengthen the protection of minorities including through effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Therefore, by means of an accession agreement adopted in the referendum, we have committed ourselves effectively to implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rules of National Minorities in the content and form in which this law is now in place and in the part relating to the application of bilingualism. We have not conducted accession negotiations, but we have been their result, and I am particularly obliged to respect and implement the text of the Accession Treaty, therefore, and it is clear that the adoption of the referendum issue would violate the Constitution and a series of international agreements which the Republic of Croatia has approached because the adoption of the referendum issue would lead to a reduction of the guaranteed rights of national minorities, and as a result of the Constitutional Court's decisions, it is clear that the Assembly is not authorized to reject the request for a referendum or when it considers that the referendum issue is not in line with the Constitution, the Committee for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposed decision and to address the Constitutional Court with a request for the assessment of the constitutionality of the proposed referendum issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84962	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we have a replica of the esteemed vice president of the House, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84963	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grbin, you have tried to explain the reason for something that is quite unprecedented, which is that for this decision written in 2 passages you wrote to the Kukuriku Coalition, 10 pages of reasoning. 10 pages of reasoning that mentions things, and you also talked about accession negotiations, etc., etc., just not about the law you're supposed to call upon. There is no mention of Article 8 that actually solves all of this and that it has applied to all of this should not have happened at all. Obviously, you deliberately shut it down because you don't have it in your account when on the 10 pages, I repeat, you prejudge the Constitutional Court's decision, you're suggesting that this solution to the Constitutional Court should be, and that the actual debate in this House was not at all conducted. Since the government has, knowingly, ignored Article 8, whose application did not have to come to all of this at all, since, knowingly and deliberately, you too, in your reasoning of, I repeat, 10 pages ignore Article 8, I ask the question do you really think that this is the way the situation in Vukovar is going to calm down? Will it be a step forward towards reconciliation or will it radicalise itself and lead to an even greater separation of people in Vukovar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84964	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84965	Dear colleague, when you make a decision, you have to explain it because everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right to know what led us when we decided to do something. We have made this very clear here, and I will repeat, this decision with this very much, and not some other explanation, has been unanimously adopted by the Committee on the Constitution and is unanimously supported by the Committee on Human Rights, which has been held by a very clear debate on it, and by the votes of your colleagues from HDZ. This is a decision for which no alternative explanation has been proposed, you, a colleague, have not made an effort today nor have your colleagues done so before, suggest a second argument to the committee, say we should ask the Constitutional Court for some other reasons. Well, I don't think there's any reason for Parliament to adopt it today in this form. Now, why is no provision of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities mentioned in the proposal for this decision? Because the question is whether the change is in line with the Constitution and international agreements, not with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Even with Article 8 of that Law. Nor from this present discussion of yours, or your replicas, have I yet to understand whether you support such a proposal or are you opposed to it or are you just contented to have someone dared to tell you what they think and explain the reasons for your actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84966	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84967	JOSIP BORIĆ: Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I, too, fellow coat of arms, as a well-known constitutional expert, want to ask you how did we come to this decision in the first place? Why is there no explanation in this decision on at least half the page that we've come to it at all? What did the government do to make someone appear somewhere, that the headquarters showed up, that the signatures showed up? It doesn't say that anywhere. What did the government do? Is that in all accordance with the laws in this country? There's no such thing. Or this debate is the final of that famous statement by the prime minister while I am the prime minister of the Cyrillic referendum will not be. Because we see that when the prime minister calls for responsibility that we and the credible interpretation can vote several times in this house, if it is necessary five times, and perhaps an extraordinary session that you didn't all come here today. My people, do you understand what you are doing from this High House to which you are all called? And I remind you, the story of the amendments to the Constitution, then you explained them we want to protect the Croatian defenders, and it was only about protecting some who went beyond the borders of this country and you've had a huge failure, and we've been having this debate in this House for five months. Are you going to try to roll us around again and tell us that there's only a party above this country, just a party and what the party says?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84968	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84969	Well, here's what's very interesting to me is that you HDZ are complaining today to my colleagues from the SDP that we came to the Parliament today. It would be better for HDZ colleagues to see each other, not for some who discussed last week to say that it is a shame that no one has stayed in the assembly, as soon as they sit down, they leave the parliament and act exactly as they have objected to others. But you asked what the government did to lead to this referendum. Well, the government did what it had to do. I will remind you once again, the special obligations that the Republic of Croatia has made in accession negotiations, continue to strengthen the protection of minorities including through the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. This Treaty of Accession was not signed by me, someone else negotiated, someone else held negotiations, and someone else knew very well that something like this was proposed in June 2010 so that we would neither open nor close chapter 23, and in particular never to enter the EU. But today we forgot about it. And one of the obligations described in the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is bilingualism. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was by its consensus when we adopted it to no one in this House doubted any of its provisions. We forgot what we were doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84970	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84971	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So today your discussion and the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee's decision is the same as the interpretation of the Lex Perkovic Act, you're just as successful at it as then. The people said rooms, and the government came from the people. And you can't justify anything that 632 thousand signatures have been collected for this referendum. There is no way you can avoid it being called, regardless of whether it is valid or not, it is a matter of referencing. If the voter assesses that there is a need to call a referendum on a proposal to amend the Republic Constitution, the draft law and other questions of the referendum will be called. You can't ban him that you're not even the one who was on behalf of the family. Today you've banned these men from headquarters from getting into T-shirts with a little Staff emblem, look at them stripping in the lobby. This is your power, this is your party. You have done everything in the government's opinion that has responsibly written that it does not respect any proposals of conclusions that were realistic, objective and only tended not to apply what caused further division in the Croatian and Serbian people in the area of Vukovar where the great victims gave their lives, where genocide was committed, where the rape was committed, where the culturalocide happened where all the worst in this world was done, you want to further implicate these people, and you want to force this people again as a great legal expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84972	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84973	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Djakic doesn't make any sense to me right now. When we discussed this decision last week, your party colleagues absolutely supported the reference to the Constitutional Court, and yet your colleagues voted in favour of this very decision unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84974	Please, colleagues, let's stick to the line. Please, if you want us not to have a parliamentary opportunity for everyone to speak, then say it. Go on, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84975	Thank you, Mr. President. unanimously on the Committee on the Constitution, unanimously on the Committee on Human Rights, we have adopted this decision in this form. Today, colleague Djakic, you come and say this referendum will be called. With all due respect, decisions are not on us right now. If we accept this decision and refer the question to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court will consider all the facts and provisions of the Constitution and international agreements and decide whether there are any preconditions for calling a referendum or not. The Constitutional Court is not bound by this argument, which is here before us. But we believe that we are also obliged to the Constitutional Court, but above all explain to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia why we are acting in a certain way. I'll repeat, the decision was in front of the papers, and everyone unanimously supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84976	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84977	Mr. President, Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was injured because a colleague named Peja Grbin spoke in a replica or a reply to the replica about a meeting of the committee chaired by false claims. Since he can speak on behalf of the committees which the president has and on behalf of the majority must speak about what the majority on his board has concluded, and not all the representatives who took part in the work of that committee. I don't know what's funny to you, but what I'm talking about is Article 238. "Advocacy by its behaviour departs from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament." It is incorrect to defend your political views with lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84978	Thank you very much. Comrade Mlakar, you know I'm asking you nicely, should we do it again? Neither you nor I are the Arbitrarian who is telling the truth in the House. That is why the Croatian public is here and therefore the parliamentary debate is formed and guaranteed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not with my or your position. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Grbin no one brings to this House the rights of national minorities but because of you and the public it is necessary to read Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The provisions of this Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied with the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples for the development, understanding of solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between them. Instead of the proposal for this decision, you spoke in fact about the reasons for this decision and, among other things, you also called for an agreement between the Republic and Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of the rights of national minorities signed in 2005 almost 9 years ago. And neither you nor your board nor the Croatian Parliament, nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, nor the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have wondered what rights are reduced and whether these rights are the rights of the Croatian national minorities in Serbia. And they do not have the right to ask questions, that this is of interest to you and that the Croatian public is following then you would also know about the problems of physical attacks and about the problems of education and the problems of Croatian national minority textbooks in the Republic of Serbia and about the funds for the Croatian national minorities and the representation of the Croatian national minority in the National Assembly as well as about representation in the bodies of the state administration. You don't know anything about this, but you are also bringing about your argument regarding the agreement between the Republic of Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro, which is definitely not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84980	Before responding to the replica of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84981	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that Mr. Mlakar injured Article 238, calling, so he called in response to his colleague Grbino's particular article and said that his colleague Grbin had deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. I believe, Mr. President, that a colleague of the Mlakar, by his conduct, has deviated from the general rules of conduct in the House because he accuses another colleague of lying and is not telling the truth himself. At the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, a colleague of Mlakar and his colleague, Sheks, were present. The fact that a colleague, Mlakar, had left before the vote but his colleague, Seks, remained, and so all the members of the Committee were present at the session at the time were unanimous to make this decision. What you discussed in your discussion on the Committee was but said not to object to making such a decision only to consider that there should be no argument. And according to that, colleague Shakespeare voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84982	Thank you very much. To repeat what I told my colleague, Mlakar, you can't be an arbitration officer either. There is therefore no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have time to hope that you all have time because it is your duty to work and represent Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament. Here you are, now a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative of Peđa Grbin Anti Babiæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84983	Dear colleague, this is Croatia and we here must discuss first and foremost how we will behave in our homeland, how we will lead it and how we will work here. Only when we do that can we share other lessons. And in Novi Sad, the name of that city is written in four languages at the entrance to the city. Among other things, in Hungarian and not since yesterday. And look at the historical books of what was done in the city under the Hungarian flag in 1944 and 1945. In Pula, the entrance to the city reads Pula, did not kill people, did not bring war to Italian, the war was brought by criminals. Vukovar did not destroy the Cyrillic, Vukovar destroyed the Serb aggressor and we must condemn it most strongly and we must repeat it everywhere. But it wasn't destroyed by Cyrillic, it wasn't destroyed by Serbian, it wasn't destroyed by Serbian. And if we're talking about making sure the wounds are still fresh, I can agree with you. But a colleague please tell me, on behalf of all Croatian citizens, when will the wounds cease to be fresh after 20 years, after 30 years, after 40, 50 or 100? After how many years, how many years will we in the Republic of Croatia start implementing the Croatian laws and international agreements we have signed? Tell me, after 20, after 40, or after 100 years, or will we never spend it, and we will once again have the opportunity to have the law that we have passed and then we do not want to act on it? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84984	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84985	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, you've been here countless times this morning, not countless times, you've said that nothing is clear to you about the Cyrillic, about the process. I'll explain. (Laughter) And this is the truth, I am giving myself the right to interpret the truth because it is based on what I will say on facts and practical events, verifiable for all Croatian citizens and for the sake of the Croatian public. You are because you have come to a problem with the International Community of Lex Perkovic and thus went to spread national hatred. You went on a move that would cause national hatred, a procedure that would draw the public away from that previous process that I said to Lex Perkovic and you used one procedure that was spreading, a direct spread of national hatred. Shame on you, it's a crime. It was in the last state, and it was in this country. Spread out, you went to spread hate, there was nothing sacred between the Croats and Serbs at a certain point to cover their problems and to show someone that they didn't respect this or that. Shame on you, you should be found guilty, and that's true, there's no other. That's true, there's no other Mr. Peja. And there's nothing for you... to expect because you made the first high treason, today we're going to talk about high treason... which I agree with about INA's high treason. You are when you disarmed Croatia, the first high treason, you did not vote for them, it is the second high treason, you spread national hatred between Croats and Serbs, it is the third betrayal. And you know why you shouldn't have, you shouldn't have gone to that...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84986	On behalf of Parliamentism, I let you say what you think, you have violated the Rules of Procedure and good customs in the Croatian Parliament, so that you do not call colleagues high treasons, that is beyond measure...... That's beyond measure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it helps you, I warn you and ask everyone else to stay away from the difficult words and qualifications of other colleagues who also represent Croatian citizens in this House. Please, nice. ... Please, the Honorable representative of Peja Grb's reply to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84987	I thank Mr. President, but I also thank you for not interrupting Mr. Marasovic because I think the Croatian public has the right to hear these things and to hear what some think about their political not opponents but rivals. And dear colleague Marasovic, if my colleagues or I have committed a crime, I am now asking you here to act in accordance with a law that says that everyone who has knowledge that a criminal offence has been committed is also obliged to report to the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia. I'll be happy to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84988	Honorable representative Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84989	Here's how we came a little bit by bit to this moment when we all on committees have supported this decision to refer this request to a constitutionality or consent with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I will ask you a question like I asked on the board when you were, that we have here of 600 and a few thousand people asking for a referendum. I will ask you what if this referendum happens, what if the referendum succeeds, will it mean that Croatia has violated the Helsinki agreements or political conditions of accession to the European Union and the accession treaty it has signed. So I'd like you to meet us about that, which will happen then.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84990	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84991	If something like this comes up, and I'm sure it won't come, then Croatia would violate not only all these documents you mentioned but the Republic of Croatia would, above all, violate Article 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And all those who know the basics of European law know what the article 2 says, and they also know that the breach of Article 2 has a direct consequence of the application of Article 7. The Treaty on European Union, which is the article under which Austria almost earned sanctions when Heider, or his party, entered the Austrian Government. In this case, in this case, I am convinced that Croatia could not avoid such sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84992	Thank you too, dear colleague. Does the representative of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities want to state the position of the Committee? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the SDSS club and the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84993	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When the second half of the 19th century discussed what language would be the official language of this Parliament and which language would be spoken in Parliament and Croatia, there were no people who discussed Cyrillic and Latin. There were many who discussed the common language of Croats and Serbs, and Cyrillic and Latin were considered a common historical heritage. That's how it was and that's how it is today. Mr. Djakic, there may be something you can teach me but certainly not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84994	Comrade Pupovac, speak to the Parliament. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84995	Your Honor, Mr. President, let me say three and a half things here. First, let me say something about history. Most of us who come to the Croatian Parliament have to go through one street called Cirilomethodska and us MPs and MPs and those who come to visit St. Mark's Square and this Parliament and those who come to the galleries of this Parliament to defend their views and their beliefs. The Cyrillic street has been named after the creators of Slavic literacy, the Thessaloniki brothers of Cyril, later known as the Constantinople philosopher and Methodius, the creators of Slavic literacy as the verbs that were created, I know this is not a place for learning, but it is a place for political speech, and this is now a matter of politics. At the invitation of the great prince of the Moravius of Rastislav to be crystallized and to create a letter for them. And they were created in writing in the Great Moravska Glagoličko, the first to be known by the papal letter in 880 as "Industriae tuae" is recognized by the authorship of Cyril or Konstantin over the Glagolitic letter. Later, their students at the end of the 19th century in Bulgaria create a Cyrillic letter headed by Kliment, and this letter becomes a dominant letter of Slavic literacy until today, including Croatia. Until the 16th century, among the most important writings in Dubrovnik, Bosnia, Dalmatia, including liturgic books, including literature like Divkovic's are written on the Cyrillic newspaper as it was known in these parts and until '41. In the 20th century Cyrillic and Latin were not the subject of a dispute between Croats and Serbs. They were considered together a historical heritage, someone more, someone less, but a shared historical heritage. '41. The year of Cyrillic is banned as is forbidden by Serbs. The Cyrillic is being expelled and exterminated as Serbs are being expelled and exterminated. And it's only that much and nothing else, because there's been a lot of talk about it and there's a lot of information about it, regardless of what's happening today for those who pretend they don't know anything about it. One more thing. Here, when we pass Kirilometod street, we pass the Old Town Hall. The magistrate of the City of Zagreb in 861 makes a decision granting a diploma to a temporary or honorary citizen of the free royal city of Zagreb, Vuk Stefanovic, no less written with a Cyrillic to which he corresponds with a letter from Vienna written in Latin just so that we know what we were, what we were through, how we were, and how we were when there were times when freedoms were created for which some today would want them to be trampled. And I think it's our duty not to let him step on it. Another thing I'd like to say is consistency. Dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ have agreed with you the final parts of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. At that time, you were about to take over, and it was good for you to be in good relations with Serbs and other minorities. At the time, it was good to show that you would no longer lead anti-minor politics, but that you would run a pro-mining policy. Then you took the initiative to introduce Croatia into the European Union, and then we created a policy that should guarantee minority rights, which should have created a tolerance society from Croatia, which should have created a society in which the characteristics of minority communities and not a single word would be recognised, and at no time was it a matter of when and how certain provisions of constitutional law could be applied. We evaluated it ourselves, and we made our own arrangements. Today, when we have finished negotiations with the EU, when we are a year of EU member states, when you are about to come back to power again, what should any party in opposition do if it has faith in itself and if it has the strength to implement programmes that it considers to be better than those who are in power today reach for something that belongs to the period before 2003. I could even say before '97. The year President Tudjman led a peaceful reintegration. One word was not heard against the Cyrillic, it was heard against extremism. But one word was not heard against Cyrillic and Cyrillic letters. You suddenly along with people, and about this I will also say something you are ready to show yourself as an inconsistencies political actor in Croatia, as someone who because of the European programme and because of the authorities is willing to do one thing, and then when you need to regain power then is ready to do another. It just means that tomorrow if the circumstances agree to get power, you will again seek an alliance with the minorities and again the Cyrillic will not be a problem. Is that worth it? When you ask the government if she could have been more skilled, could she have respected what was respected, I ask if it was worth it? To create such a mess, to create such negative emotions, to make all the other themes stop and pay attention to what absolutely doesn't need this country. Now let me say something about a third thing, and that's why it's good that this is on the right, to see what we thought was good for us, and what we don't think is good for us today. The third thing, people who started against Cyrillica and who organised against Cyrillica and ran the campaign and broke Cyrillic inscriptions and received political and media support for one day did not say one word against the growing unemployed in Croatia, against reducing workers' rights in Croatia. At no point was there a matter of this, at any point, that it becomes the biggest Croatian problem, unemployment and the depravity of people who work, the inability of those who would like to work to get to work. No, it was not turned into a central Croatian problem, it was not a question of Croatian freedom, it was not a question of the dignity of Croatian citizen colleagues and colleagues when you refer to Article 8 and be jobless or at work rather than getting paid or being at work and not having recognized overtime but to recognize them in the form of an annual vacation is that dignity? Is this the country people have been fighting for and being manipulated with? And finally, have you HDZ colleagues rebelled against the bosses who run such Croatian workers and gave them such status? Have you told your colleagues who are rebelling against Cyrillics to rebel against such bosses and their way of leading the economy and their dissuasion of Croatian workers? You didn't tell them that. And when you didn't tell them that I'll tell you if that's how you think you rule Croatia, then you won't bring anything new. I'm telling you, I'm telling you because you don't speak one word about what's vital to Croatia, which is an increasingly profound imbalance, an ever-increasing disenfranchisement including this country, which is becoming more and more disproved each day in relation to other countries. That's not what you're talking about! But you're persecuting colleagues from the left because they dare say something about it. If that's the message you're going out with among the voters, if that's the message you think you're going to get trust, you're going to have to scrutinize it hard on the day you get most of it, hard. At the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues have no doubt that we must have a different respect for the victims of this war and we who are called that we too, too, have the right to call on others for their respect. It's time to start treating it like a real pie. And the true pitet does not consist in accusing others as much as they respect, and even less true pitet is not a means to gain political power and to come to power. It's time to stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84996	Thank you, dear colleague. So far, we've collected 16 replicas on your exhibit. Let's get this straight. Dear colleague Gordan Jandrokovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84997	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's only a little two minutes so a man can do a good pollemisation with a colleague named Pupovec, but we'll be on our way. First, you have held an interesting exhibition, a semi-communication of what you are dealing with, but I have not heard that someone here accused Cyril and Methodus and not even Vuk Karadzic of bombing Belgrade, or bombings and attacks on Vukovar. A lot has changed since then, a lot of things have changed in relations between Croats and Serbs, and I expected it to be a topic of your exposure. So we go back there somewhere at the end of last year and we see how everything actually happened, how these bilingual plates actually caused such controversy, such division, such passion between all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. Let us remember that it was the time of the biggest crisis around lex Perkovic and then the SDP and the Government of the Republic of Croatia were responsible for violating European regulations. And it is recognised not only here in Croatia but throughout Europe. And a spin was to be done in haste, it was necessary to change that perception quickly and find some topic in which the government would be the protector of someone, preferably minorities. And it's done, and that's what's actually the biggest problem here that's been used by the victim of Vukovar, which was used by the victims of Vukovar to collect political points and to distract attention from the protection of former Soviet liquidators. And that's what's bothering us, and that's what has motivated the Joint Chief to launch this whole initiative. They felt that they were not sincere motives, felt that it was a fraud, felt that someone had abused Vukovar, the sacred Croatian city of Vukovar, to collect cheap political points. And I repeat, he drew attention from the suicide killings. And that's what caused it. And we here want to make a cause out of the consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84998	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u84999	Dear colleague Jandrokovic, I mentioned Chile because it's his letter, which is why it's called Cyrillic. And all I have to say is that in 880, Leon XIII, Pope, by his decision, appointed the brothers of Thessaloniki to the apostles of Slavic literacy among the saints in the Catholic calendar, and John Paul II, by his decision of 980, declared them patrons or protectors of the EU, which is why I mentioned them, along with Benedict from Nurs. If this is not relevant today, if you don't think we're not running a letter against those who are gathering us, those whose values we need to stand up for, those who belong, that's another thing. I can speak again on the subject. And as for the law that you mention, which with the Cyrillic shouldn't have anything to do with it except maybe on some link, and where the liquidators are and who all the liquidators are, should be discussed, it would be better to talk to the prime minister, it would be better if you talked to political parties, you might come up with a more complete answer than you offer with Perkovic and giving Perkovic a finger if he was the culprit who did it. If it's not mine to teach you, it's not mine to teach you anything. But all I'm asking you is that when it comes to the Croatian interest and when it comes to the interest of these citizens that we are in this matter and you and I are equal here at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85000	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85001	Thank you, Mr. President. Rarely when you can hear a demagogue speech like Mr. Pupovac did. No one here is against the Cyrillic and will not change anyone's attitude towards Cyrillic, but it's something else entirely. If you have already gone into history, then you should have also mentioned the verb, and you should have said that in the Croatian Assembly you were spoken in Latin until 1847 for other reasons, but it does not work with this argument. On the other hand, when you were talking about the streets, you should have said that in Vukovar in 90,91 was Stjepana Radića Street, which was renamed after the conquest of Vukovar in Punisha Račića Street. So this is about exactly what you kept quiet in the end or wanted to keep quiet about your relationship with the victims. Of the 15.5 thousand victims half of that number, and most of that half were civilians who were killed in Vukovar-Srijem County. We have so far had no conviction of the key players responsible for this. So it's about something else, the illustrations, this year or last year we had a chance to read in the newspaper that in Jerusalem, it was the first time Wagner was played, and the conductor apologized for whether it wasn't acceptable for the Israeli people because Wagner was playing in Nazi Germany during all those executions. And therefore, there is simply one appeal here for respecting the petticoats of these victims, not for refusing Cyrillic because Cyrillic is a clear thing cultural heritage to us and against us and no one has anything against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85002	Thank you. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85003	Dear fellow Tudjman, I am, of course, pleased to hear that you say you have nothing against Cyrillic and that your understanding of the matter of this debate is such that it is not against Cyrillic. But I would remind you of numerous public statements during the campaign that were completely anti-civil and not only anti-civilistic but also anti-Serb. And as far as I can tell you, it's not worth it, I can only say that I hope you believe what I'm saying because I don't need to make it up. As for Stjepan Radić and Puniša Račić, you know there is no way that man could show the depth of the pitet towards the loss of Stjepan Radić, which I could express here in the Croatian Parliament, and especially in these circumstances. And there is no way I could adequately express my disdain for the savagery that was made by the act of renaming Stjepan Radić Street in Puniša Račića Street, nor the people who came to that idea, nor the people who raised their hand to it, there is no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85004	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85005	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Pupovac, this speech itself is actually a demagogy hidden by rhetorical figures who are pure hate speech for the purpose of keeping Croatia on the cross, blamed for everything, as you in the next election in a year with a few dozen votes could come back here and sit, and collect prey from the Croatian state and nothing more. So, you will not succeed, Croatia has gained strength, the Croatian people have gained strength to the Serbian people and all the peoples in Croatia, and in particular to the Serbian people, this is a word between Croats and Serbs, given all national, religious, civil, all rights such as there is no national minority in Europe, and you will not succeed in your actions in this House to turn it to the other side. I'm not into hate speech, I'm for something else from you. All rights should be given to Croats in the majority state as they did not have in Yugoslavia. By the way, but fellow Pupovac, you've come to 41st and you're being senile, and you're still young and in your mind, you forgot to mention that it was '91. ... Croatian states that were wiped out by Croats or killed or expelled and the Croatian name in Croatia was deleted and what do you not say? You pretend to be correct and honest. We all know this isn't Cyrillic. Mother walks on a grave from a child, I don't know if it's under a child. Let's wait a year with this Cyrillic, the Cyrillic is all over Croatia, in all municipalities, it didn't bother anyone. For your pragmatic reasons, I told you before, you made a question out of it to cover your problems. If I were you...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85006	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85007	My colleague Marasovic, I can possibly speak in the language of passion, but not in hate. Be assured of that. And as for the crucible on the cross, only one was crucified on the cross and only his place there... Neither am I, nor are you there, nor is Croatia there, nor is any other country there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the rights of Serbs in Croatia, your words, as you have spoken them, which are repeated for 20 years and a few years, about how Serbs in Croatia have rights that no one has and nowhere in Europe, I would like to give you those rights so abundantly that there are no one and nowhere in Europe, which I might agree with, but I would be wrong about minorities who have been going through similar experiences, I would give you those rights back and give you back, and you give me the rights that you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85008	Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85009	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pupovac, do you really think that the Cyrillic letter in Croatia is a problem? If that's what you mean, then you're very disappointed. The truth is that Cyrillic is a valuable and cultural and historical heritage of both Serbs and Croats, and there are no choirs about it, alluding to what you have said historically about Cyrillic. But also true that the Cyrillic was a political tool, and in a memorandum of many Serbian nationalists to draw territories and desirable borders, there is no doubt about it, and that is what is said. And the painful and inconceivable truth that Vukovar was destroyed in the name of that Cyrillic who had wiped out the Latin from Vukovar for several difficult and bloody years, and we witnessed it, there is no doubt about it. That's why hanging these Cyrillic plates in Vukovar wasn't a civil act, it was a provocation. Remember Minister Bauk said it would be a holiday of democracy, but he doesn't wonder why it didn't happen. Why didn't that lawyer of democracy happen? And we are sure that is what the Serb national minority and the Croatian majority population in the town of Vukovar want. Why didn't that happen? You need to see where the cause was, and you know where the cause was and how much your political responsibility is, if you want to because of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and because of the Serb national minority in the town of Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85010	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85011	Dear counterpart Babić, when I mentioned the feature of the 1861 magistrate of the city of Zagreb, the magistrate did not force the authorities in Pesta or the government in Vienna to write it, and God did not force him or the government in Belgrade then. It was a free decision, a free royal city of Zagreb, that one of the greats of the third generation's Slavic literacy in the process of standardising language to which we speak assigned the status of a temporary citizen and no one imposed it, and it was not a matter of anyone's will on the side, except free desire and free understanding of the concept of freedom that existed at the time. Now, can we remember that? Is that part of our history or are we going to banish that too? Or are we going to give that up? Maybe we will. Maybe we have the right to do that when the banks aren't ours anymore, but we know who they are. Maybe we will, when the telecoms aren't ours anymore, but I don't know who they are. Maybe we will, when hotels and factories aren't ours anyway, but I don't know whose they are. I remind you of that, dear colleague. As for our political action, we are certainly wrong in the eyes of the Croats and in the eyes of the Serbs. But in one thing we are very careful not to make a mistake, and this is a relationship with victims and respect for the feelings and commitment of the Croatian people. If it hadn't been for that, we wouldn't have done the things we've done in the last 20 years. We don't just work in the interests of Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85012	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you spoke of the history of your fellow Pupovac, I'd rather you talked about the recent Croatian history, if you'd remembered who the aggressor really was, which wrote out all the threats on all the ruined and burned houses, on all the victims, I'd rather have listened to about that if you had said. When you said that HDZ signed an agreement with you on behalf of the coalition and the conquest of power, in which they promised everything that should be implemented today. We do not dispute at all that the legal provisions and the constitutional law are which should be guided but consistent in action, and in the name of community, co-existence, reconciliation, understanding, at least until the victims are buried until all are... until all criminals are sanctioned on both sides. You shouldn't rape Vukovar, you shouldn't attack him again. No one's talking about... or about Bobota, about putting up with Cyrillic and not bothering anyone. You, as a coalition partner, should have and then bowed down to the victim of Vukovar, and you didn't do it until the Ovcara last year, as far as I know. You probably visited Shoskocanin's mausoleum or then signed an agreement in which you charged your loyalty to Sanader fatally with functions in government and ministries as well as in money. These were your transactions and your agreements goals. Today, when we want only, when these people from the Staff were forced together with the associations of the Homeland War, who 357 and 22 of the victims jointly supported this initiative. You're talking about some kind of hatred, you're talking about a Cyrillic that's historic, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85014	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85015	All victims in Croatia should be equally respected and have the same pitet. Where there are five of them in Ervenik or where they are tens of them such as Skabrnja or where there are hundreds of them as they are in Vukovar, as they are worth to Croats as well. As is true for this war, so should all wars, including World War II. And I remind you that only a few miles from downtown you have a monument in Dudik for the victims of over 500 people killed. What is our relationship to that monument and to those victims? Will this relationship to Cyrillic and Vukovar teach us to behave differently? My dream is not to go again or again and again with you to Vukovar and bow to the victims, it is my dream that both Croats and Serbs living in Vukovar. But let's see how we do it. This way with breaking the board, I agree with the message that it was meant to send tanks and banish Serbs like they were expelled from Knin, these are certainly not messages that will encourage me or any other person to come and be with you when you take pictures of them and decide to block the state summit with them, elected democratic representatives and tell them that they are not welcome there and to make a half-breed in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85016	Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85017	Thank you very much. I didn't even think to answer until you raised your voice like that and pointed your finger at me. Sometimes I get the feeling that you're a letter in the heat, and the letter with you turns on and on. So while you're having such a heated discussion that you don't go to the village of Baljci, listen to me, in the village of Baljci, you were there before the election, and you Mr. Taker, say people after the election are gone, they don't care where we sleep, we don't have water, we don't have electricity, we don't have a life worthy of man. And then you give us lessons. You're talking about true piety, for the fourth time I invite you to come to Goli Otok, 7.5 thousand Serbs have gone through that casamat, many have left their heads there. You don't want to, because it's not politically interesting to you. And lastly, Article 8 is very clear, they say the provisions of the Constitutional Law must be interpreted. They must be interpreted with the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, developing, understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among them. You interpret the circumstances with your majority in the Parliament, the circumstances in the people are interpreted by your majority you received in 2011. ... same legitimate. But when you go wrong, when the people want to correct you, then you say that this people don't belong, that he's not the one to say it, that he's not the one to correct that they're political elites. We claim otherwise. And that is why I say you can speak and teach us everything, but you are not a credible member of the Serb national minority because you abuse them in certain cases. And when you talk about piety, then be more consistent, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85018	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85019	A fellow representative of one respected minority community and many other minorities sat here in the past term, ahead of fellow Keatazi. That's when he told another man, you're green to me, and I'm not going to quote him, but I'm going to paraphrasize him. You're a persevering speaker to a colleague of Buric's but you're really green in these things and in a lot of other things. If you weren't green then you'd know that with me S means socialism. Yes, yes, and as far as Croatia is concerned, it means nothing more than what it has always been, which is a constitution for which I know clearly what conflict with Croatia is and how much it has brought to Croatia, how much it has taken away from Croatia and how much it has taken away from it today with its presence in Croatia. And I won't remind you that it should be your job to take care of it. And that's a much bigger problem than this Cyrillic change that she stayed in Croatia. As for Serbs in Croatia, thank God someone from the HDZ found to teach me how to deal with Serbs. If you had left a little more room for dealing with Serbs and not running the kind of campaign you're running, surely there would have been a lot more room for a tour of all the villages that have no electricity left from the time HDZ was in power. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85020	Dear Representative Ilija Filipovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85021	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, Mr. Pupovci, compared to what we heard and what you said, I'd say one sentence before I ask you. So all national minorities are, this is one finding not only of mine but of this side where I sit are our wealth in the Republic of Croatia and democratic Croatia without national minorities would be a little different Republic of Croatia. But we, and I still have to subdue with any national minority in this country, we don't have any problems. Problems arise with the Serbian National Minority because of this recent history that you did not purposely mention in your presentation since the 1990s, misunderstandings are great. The misunderstandings are, I wish you had talked a little bit about the genealogy of the creation of such a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities that you've run this whole political story because it's so phased, it was changed in particular in 2002 and 2010 and it has practically become a weapon and tool in your hands whenever you want to generate a problem in the Republic of Croatia. So he generated a referendum problem for the Vukovar Defense Department. So Article 8 of this Constitutional Law, which you have not even negotiated where the right of the majority is not respected, is not respected by the Croatian people and because of this disrespect, because of the avoidance of the application of Article 8, is also generated and the request for a referendum that we are discussing today. Do you think that there are insufficient constitutional norms, there are 56 out of 152 articles that regulate the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85022	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85023	As soon as you came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, you came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, as I understand it, to a significant community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and even here in Croatia it was said that the flower of the Croatian people and we saw how it was treated with these flowers in the '90s. Do not let me remind you of how wealth was treated, not only Serbian, but all others in different situations. I'm not asking you for a phrase, I'm asking you for content, I'm not asking you for norms, I'm asking you for a political relationship with it. And as for the Constitutional Law as the means to which we abuse against Croatia, I could tell you that is indeed from the exclusive right-wing repertoire of rhetoric. A very exclusive right-wing repertoire that we've been listening to for 20 and a few years. But tell it to the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission, not to me. Tell it to the OSCE and the OSCE Office for National Minorities, not to me, tell it to the European Parliament and to the European Commission, don't tell me, these are big manipulations. I'm as small as you are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85024	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85025	Comrade Pupovac, you asked yourself in your debate whether this situation should have been created and divided. Today we witness a strange debate in a strange situation. At the meeting of the Constitutional Committee members of the Croatian Democratic Community, it was not a disputed proposal to refer to the Constitutional Court by a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the issue offered. There was a questionable explanation why, arguments, opinions or opinions given by the Parliament in that document. Today's debate began not to discuss a motion for a decision and an argument that was controversial but rather a tragedy of Vukovar. We have a debate on the agenda, unfortunately not open an act that could have served as a debate and a reference to the declaration of Vukovar as a place of special pitet and exemption may have been opened for a certain period of time from the application of that provision but it is not discussed. When Milanovic signed the referendum on the Labour Law, on labour rights, he later said he had the wrong advisers. When Karamarko signed this referendum and warned him of possible suspicion of constitutional issues, he said he came to sign it without the media and quote "no suits" So the fact that someone signed something, and later as a party itself expressed doubts about the constitutionality of the issue is a strong argument that he was not involved. I don't know what he was into, but it's a strong argument. And Mr. Pupovac, you are part of the ruling coalition, insist and remain in the position to urgently regulate this area because the day after tomorrow, a new contingent of signatures for the citizens' initiative will come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85026	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85027	As I have given you the right to a session of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure which discussed this proposal which we are discussing today as regards the urgency to pass the Law on the referendum, so I am giving it to you now. And I believe that the first next session or one available after that should be dedicated to the adoption of the referendum law and, as I understand it, the chairman of the committee has agreed to this. And we, therefore, and you and I, because I support you, will insist on it because we really believe that the institutional state of the referendum regulation in our country is such that it poses a danger to democracy. But we did so not at my request to my fellow Filipovic but at a very broad concept of understanding of relations with the European Union. So we could enter the European Union so that three people would vote, of which two would vote yes and be a member of the European Union. You've been so broad-handed about understanding the sovereignty of the Croatian people, you've been so broad-handed about understanding the sovereignty and sovereignty of Croatian citizens and don't lecture us on this because there's one name I won't say here out of respect for the President of the Parliament, out of respect for this home. But to go back to what you said, to go back to what... I'll tell you in four eyes, because I respect this country and I respect this people. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But the act by which in the state sovereignty and the transfer of part of sovereignty is allowed to be decided by three votes...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85028	Thank you very much. That is the case in 16 European Union countries. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85029	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Your Honor, I understand your speech and why you spoke like that. I am personally sorry that this happened, these past years can be said because it was not necessary for Croatia, especially Vukovar, especially for those who are no longer with us and who gave their lives for a sovereign and free country in Croatia. When the late Franjo Tudjman brought the Peace Train to Vukovar, I thought it was a Peace Train for all Croatian citizens, and Croats and Serbs and all others. If any policy will manipulate the will of the Croatian people today, so many years later, then our country goes in the wrong direction. I think the problem with the "Vukovar Defence Station" initiative has nothing to do with Serbia's national minority but with the revolt of Croatian citizens because what happened was misrepresented. I didn't think it necessary to put on a plate at night. In Osijek-Baranja County, the county from which I come, in Erdut, Far and places are standing tables on Cyrillic for years, no one breaks them, and thus the victims fell for Croatia and bombs fell there, innocent people died. I advocate that our Croatia be a European country. Vukovar should be the place of a special pitet because both Croats and Serbs died there, there it was the backbone of the creation of the Croatian state. And what you're saying I respect what you said, but the revolt occurred at a time when the way the tables were put on. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic should not have said until I am the prime minister of this referendum, that is what the Constitutional Court should have said, and I advocate the Constitutional Court. Wrong presentation of what was going on. Due to the economic crisis, the country's poor conditions have been revolutionised and have responded to this behaviour from the government by signing what caused 576 000 signatures, which is enough to change the government in Croatia. I think the problem with communication, understanding, and if we'd all sat together, all of us there before these boards were set, there would be no signatures, there wouldn't be this problem. We better fight for Vukovar the way we promised to fight for him, not this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85030	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85031	Thank you, fellow Salapic, for reminding you of the Peace Train in which I had the privilege of sitting with the first people of the state of that time. And we thought, one of the participants sitting here with us with whom I was communicating, most of the communication with the office of President Tudjman at the time, and it was a significant place in the end of the war and the beginning of peace in Croatia, but unfortunately we do not celebrate that peace. We neither the Erdutic Agreement nor the end of peaceful reintegration celebrate or place the victims in a context of peace and not celebrate the victims in a context of peace but use the victims to continue the war with them through them. I advocate that peace, that this train and what we did afterwards through the restoration of trust be a framework for respecting the victims in Vukovar. But also since I am often called not having enough respect for the victims in this war, is it normal for the second time to break a plate on Pag in the bay of Slana to the victims of the Ustasha complex of Gospić-Pag. Is it normal for beaten Jews and Serbs women, men brought there not to be allowed to have their own memory plate?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85032	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85033	Dear fellow Pupovac, as usual in such debates at the core is forgotten in fact what we should discuss. The referendum question is: Do you agree with the equal official use of the language and letter used by members of the national minority shall be carried out in the field of the unit of local self-government, state administration and justice when members of a national minority make up at least half of the population of such a unit. It's a referendum issue to go to the Constitutional Court. I think there are few who would not advocate a referendum question that speaks of the special status of the city of Vukovar and the special piety, the well-deserved pate towards Vukovar. However, political manipulation has begun here. There is one claim that has been made several times, and this is to be banned at this time from Cyrillic inscriptions because Vukovar was the aggressors of the Serbian bombing and the orders were written on Cyrillic. After World War II, a part of the world was to ban a large part of the world from Latin, all the orders written were on the Latin. A large part of the world was supposed to ban Cyrillic because he was putting all his horrible crimes, his orders for crimes, on Cyrillic. The world would have run out of letters. It's not the letters, it's the criminals I repeat. And this is manipulation of manipulation. This is essentially when the issue is raised purely politically, not the issue of pies towards Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85034	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85035	I thank my colleague Vuksic. I don't think I have anything to add on how you ended your replica. It's the meaning of everything I've been saying about this issue over the past year and a few days, and that was the meaning of what I wanted to say here. But that's what you should tell your colleagues from HDZ. They need to be told. That should be said to people who were not ready to accept the conversation even though we went to the talks, not always publicly with representatives of defense associations. As for the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court had the opportunity and time to assess whether the initiative was in accordance with the Constitution or not. The Constitutional Court could and should have said its opinion on the referendum issue and should not have waited for the Croatian Parliament and its committee to ask him whether this issue was in line with the Croatian Constitution or not. But he didn't do it, and he could, and I'm gonna say and he should have. And if he did, then the period of manipulation would be much shorter, and the debates in the Parliament wouldn't be burdened with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85036	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believed your debate had to be a little different. You, of course, have extended your debate. You talked about everything more than the agenda point, but of course you can find a link. He says the President of the Parliament is not an arbiter, so he can't judge, so he didn't even warn you about it. But what I answered, I'm sure it's clear to you. We all here and in this matter are actually acting on a symbolic level, using symbols, and these symbols have to be interpreted to get to the bottom of it. Your thesis, then the debate of 7.8 minutes that someone against the Cyrillic is funny to you too. This indicator is if you want a certain number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia about government policy and this is a cry against the consequences of the large Serb policy that unfortunately felt the most precisely in Vukovar. No one was against Cyrillic as you simulate it. But what I have reported is inadmissible for you to take a parliamentary pay phone, privatize to give a 10-minute lecture to your colleagues from HDZ, combining stories from the past, but only those of the past, which at some point corresponds to your arguments. If you use the past and everything that has happened, you will come to a completely different conclusion from those you have drawn, and therefore remain correct in your discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85038	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85039	As for your assessment of fellow Mlakar, and the composition of my speech and the reach for historical sources, I could have reached for another, and I could have reached for the continuity of your party's relationship with Cyrillic in the past year, but that would not have been very good for you, neither for Croatia nor for my intention and my political goal to restore with you and with all the other political parties that policy has been suppressed over the past 20 years. I thought you'd understand that when I mentioned '41. And I could have mentioned earlier, I could have. But since I understand this place as a place where we will not create and deepen misunderstandings but in an open debate we will tell each other what we think, that it is relevant for today's moment, and it is relevant, that we should say who did what and that we should say what kind of relationship we should have with the victims and that it is necessary to stop manipulating victims to the goal of political power and political authority. And that today is the Croatian problem of another kind. Today, the question of who is and how has spent privatisation arises more than what economic system we have today and what rights people have in this economic system than this. But if you want to cover it with Cyrillic, then that means you don't want to face it seriously. And once again, I'm telling you, you don't want to tell the boss who rules this country the way he is, not the Cyrillic, but that boss. And he makes men disquieted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85040	Thank you. A new replica, respected Ivan Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Pupovac, all those who wish to simplify the issue of Cyrillic in the Republic of Croatia as an argument for the introduction of this letter in various places throughout Croatia know that Cyrillic and Croatian script. Historically speaking, we'd say that's true. However, many things in the past looked completely different than they do now. And the meaning of many things has changed completely. At present, we cannot view Cyrillic as just a simple letter without any meaning, without emotion in any scientific discourse. The question of a letter or Cyrillic far exceeds any scientific debate because it has become a first - class political issue, or issue of symbols that are very important to every nation and state. Let's say what the flag means. Well, it's not part of the fabric. What does an anthem mean? It's not part of a song. So is the letter. Someone will say that the introduction of Cyrillic into some Croatian places is not an endangered Latin. I'm going back to the symbol question. If we view this issue as symbolic, then the Cyrillic poses a serious threat to the very foundations of the Croatian state. Someone might say this is too strong a statement. Are we right when we say that? The answer can be found by returning to Vukovar in 1991. The raised three fingers do not have to mean anything, but in the fall of Vukovar in a symbolic sense of Cyrillic and raised three fingers meant the destruction of the foundation of Croatian statehood itself. In the life of every man and society, general symbolism means a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85042	The replica matches the esteemed Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85043	My dear colleague, of course, I know that Cyrillics are sometimes not the same today and that there have been significant changes as to who understands Cyrillic. How many Croats see her as their own and how many Serbs and vice versa. And we respect that. But we also expect the feeling of Serbs in Croatia who believe that the letter is their traditional letter, not only, not a dominant but traditional letter. As Croats in Yugoslavia expected to respect their identity in different aspects, Croatia should respect the differences and specificities of others in this case and Serbs as well as in all other minorities. So that's all I'm pleading for. And what I particularly plead, I am sorry that there are no colleagues of the Mlakar, one of the most fierce advocates of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and its realisation, which, of course, today is not popular to advocate. It is not popular because the party president said he found it very difficult to be in a coalition with the SDSS and the Pupovac. And it would have been fair to say that out loud, out loud, then. And I know it's not because we didn't do anything to make it difficult for him, private or political. But I know why he said that, because he doesn't say anything about what the taste of today's thing is, which is who and how he runs this country, who and how he rules this country, what is the position and what are the rights of people in this country. That's not what you're talking about. It's only about defending the Holy One. And the rights of workers to work, the rights of workers to pay, the rights of full-time workers are not sacred in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85044	Thank you. A new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85045	Thank you very much. My colleague Pupovac, nothing in life is black and neither is this House nor the political coalition, but you often come for this pay phone and you want to make it black and white. Which, unfortunately, it isn't, unfortunately for you. There's a lot of gray in there, and if there wasn't that gray question, it was so people could live at all. However, there is something simply you and many in this assembly avoid saying, which is that before making a decision on bilingual inscriptions of Cyrillic in Vukovar in many cities in Croatia were inscriptions on Latin and Cyrillic. Was there a lot of trouble there? Not that I know of. Together we voted in favour of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities and it is not good for you to come here with your finger and tell us that classic story for everything is HDZ's fault. Well, it's not exactly HDZ's fault. But my colleague Pupovac would far prefer that we try to clarify both you and many of these colleagues, so why is this article 8. The Constitutional Law on National Minorities put in place as it is. Has the Cyrillic decision in Vukovar helped those poor people, both Serbs and Croats in Vukovar, not. If she's opened their jobs, she's not. If she healed their wounds, she didn't. But she opened up a lot of wounds to them. Why, therefore, is this article 8 that you voted for, you, a colleague of the Montenegrins were not then, do not wave with your head. It's precisely because we don't do things like this the way we do, not open fresh wounds, but that it's just a matter of time, like some cities in Banovina and Kordun. And simply some things should not be forced, they should not be forced because they can be done far greater damage, but apparently someone wanted to cover up both Lex Perkovic and the bad economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, let's have some fun with the Cyrillic Because why would I have anything against Cyrillic, if I love my Latin, then someone else loves their Cyrillic. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Well, just don't impose it on anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85046	Time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, I agree that things aren't just black, they're not just white, and they're not just gray. So, the world is really colourful for most of us who have the ability to see it and recognize it no matter what political blindness can take us sometimes, and then we see things only in one color, only in the color of our party, only in the color of our ideology and our ideas. But at least you should know that as far as I'm concerned, I don't belong to people who involve political blindness, otherwise I wouldn't be able to cooperate with you and your party. And if I were to accuse everyone of anything only your party in '97, I wouldn't be sitting on that train that many have accused me of on this side and on the Serbian side, or in 2003, and we didn't get in because of the ministerial posts. Because if we had come in because of ministerial posts, it would have probably been announced and published news that Pupovac's vice president had already been met, but that didn't happen. Therefore, I agree with you, no one should manipulate the Cyrillic, but there is no need to manipulate Perkovic. And you tell me there's no manipulation. Things are much more complicated, of course we both know, and of course that's why I was talking about it, and you pick up your hand as you did before the election in Vukovar, because if you'd continued differently then it wouldn't have been the way it was. And you pick up the handpiece.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85048	A new replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pupovac, you can see as Zagreb is the capital of Croatia, so Vukovar is a city for Croatian defenders, but also for the Croatian Holy Ones. To them, it's the City of Hero. And you were saying and there you are, in some way, accusing all of us on this side that we are to blame for this situation, but this government is doing everything to divide this Croatian society deep, deep. Because if she didn't, then she would primarily accept an initiative to declare moratories on Vukovar. Because the Vukovars and these people sitting up here don't want them never to come, but they want to know what's going on with thousands more missing, they want every victim in the Ovcara to think with dignity, they want just as much as they want a fellow Pupovac, and they want dignity, and a dignified life just as much as all this Croatian people. And believe me, you're calling us for all the incompetence of this government that can't solve anything in its impotence, but it's dissuading all of us here and then it's so perfiduously turning the sacred question here on this Cyrillic issue. So please, nice fellow Pupovac, do you think they're under cover of darkness in Vukovar, so you know what happens when someone wants to solve problems in this way, they set up records, that Croatian defenders, Vukovar defenders are called bloodsuckers, alcoholics, unworthy people. What you want to help with is the theme that's known to be up to 90 years old, they're famous. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85050	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85051	Comrade twilight, I will repeat once again, every place of death of every human being for every Christian and also for members as far as I know all other religions is a sacred place. But by what means is the tombstone written in Zagreb by the Cyrillic desecration of this sacred place, by what means. Why should the Cyrillic inscription at a place in Vukovar be debauchery of victims, the terrible victims of members of the Croatian people? Isn't that what your colleague Vuksic said you wanted to declare one letter a criminal? I'm sorry, but we've been listening. Or do you care that these sacred places are common to both yours and mine? If you care about being together, and I invite you to be together, once again, and I will invite you while I am here, then let us devote ourselves to sacred places, and leave the Cyrillic as something else that we can find ways to apply the law, but the stegmatization and fiction of Article 8, as something that makes it impossible, put it aside. You have prepared a legislative assumption for the campaign performance with your interpretation of Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85052	Time. The last replica, the esteemed Head of the Sun.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, and in the end, since this is the last replica, this is not the relationship to the letter that you've gotten through the historical context by returning us far back to the past, I'm going to return you to a slightly closer past, in the 20th century, this is about the victims, this is about the raped women of whom, I'll remind you, the youngest victim was 6 years old, the oldest was 80 years old. Comrade Pupovac, you've asked a whole series of questions, you didn't have to ask your colleagues with a special grizzly question, us on this side of the assembly, you should have asked that question across the street, in the government because that's where it all begins. That's the reason, what we're talking about today, that's the consequence. Comrade Pupovac, you asked yourself from this pay phone, giving us some kind of a lesson as if we were your students, and yet we didn't, does that mean that some anti-majority policy will begin? HDZ advocates dialogue and tolerance, I believe you know that. You remembered some conversations with that same party. So dialogue and tolerance yes, but I can ask you if your exposure today went in the direction of tolerance? Dear Pupovac, national minorities are also part of Croatian society, I believe that we share the same opinion and their members and political representatives should lead such a policy, safeguarding their identity, integrating it into Croatian society and sharing the fate of the majority Croatian people. Dear Pupovac, this isn't about the letter, this is about the place of the special pie.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85054	Replication response, Your Honor, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85055	Dear colleagues, your party and I have been making assumptions about tolerance and tolerance in this society. Mostly that and long before the formal coalition, in the last years of President Tudjman's life. It can be witnessed by Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt sitting here. And as for the current situation and as for my point of reference to the current state of attention of the respected fellow Shucker, listen, if your new leadership is sending a message "never more embarrassing coalition with the SDSS", and it calls for this same Tudjman we started to carry out peaceful reintegration with, with which we brought the basis for constitutional law, the same HDZ that brought all these assumptions to the Minority Act, your advocacy of HDZ's tolerated character, is quite inconclusive, you would have to discuss it in the party. So I invite you to discuss it in a party. Identify yourselves. Is it tolerated to talk about other parties with whom you were in the coalition that the coalition was a disgrace to a minority party? And that it will never be again and that after that this whole campaign is going on, so that you will be, as you say, a credible HDZ, and a credible HDZ means, probably intolerant HDZ. And I would not like HDZ to be like that because HDZ is one of the key Croatian political parties whose relevance and importance I have never underestimated, as much as possible. And the hardest times for that party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85056	Time. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the IDS club and independent representative Furi Radin, a colleague of Furio Radin and a colleague of Giovanni Sponza will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. However you take it, a country where hundreds of thousands of people are engaged to deny the rights of national minorities cannot be a place where they can live freely and happily. Especially in a country where, under the exception of ideology, it was always only nationalisms, in a country where during the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century the national minority had almost disappeared. During II. The World War of Croatia has practically disappeared Jews, while Roma and Serbs have been decimated, have taken care of it.... Since 1945, it means after II. The World War, a million members of national minorities have disappeared here from the census, if we count only Germans, Italians and Serbs, a quarter of the population of today's Croatia. Of course, you will tell me without fascism and nationalism, without and you will be right, the 20th century, it would not have happened, but I want to be clear, the minority after the war all dreamed of different antifascism than what was afterwards manifested, and after the Homeland War they dreamed, staying in Croatia, they dreamed of a different democracy than what today, which was manifested, especially in the 1990s, which I hope today, only by instrumentally some are calling. And of course, Croatia has been a victim of war and aggression, but we who remained in Croatia felt that after the end of the Homeland War, such birth will be extinct and become part of history. On the contrary, fellow MPs and MPs in this House have heard and read for too many years that Croatia has the highest degree of protection of national minorities, that we have the best laws in the world, that we have developed such a level of guaranteed rights of national minorities that it actually cannot be better. Many believe that the minority has a greater right than the majority, that actually the Croats are discriminated against and that this must already be put to the end. Such mentality in our deep belief is dangerous and it is a threat to the safety of the rest of the remains of those who once represented 25% of the population in Croatia, and today represent 7% of the population. I see this referendum on the abolition of bilingualism guaranteed by constitutional and organic laws as a continuation of such a policy and resuscitation of such an exclusive mentality. And now I'm going to say something that a lot of people don't want to hear, but I firmly think that Vukovar is whose sacrifice we all bow to and whose victims we all regret in this case are used as an excuse and a cause. We at the IDS Club are not happy to have this referendum issue given on the assessment of constitutionality, but we will vote in favour of this proposal. We want to say, however, that although this is a question from the human rights domain, all around it is politics. Finally, the arguments of the Constitutional Court given in the language of law will be as political as in many cases in the past. Any party that will be given the right will always be concerned about the policy, and Vukovar will share its divisions because the rehabilitation is simply not yet in anyone's interest. Finally, in the end, the issue raised by the Vukovar Defence Staff is political. It has nothing to do with Vukovar, read it, or drink it, or its fate and its speciality, but it says that the minority of all minorities so that they can freely use their language in a particular local self-government should be the majority. That's all it says. This issue is an appology of the withdrawal of the right of language in this case to national minorities. Only most people have the right wherever she was in this case locally. This referendum issue, however much it is lagging on the open wounds of Vukovar, which of course exist, only illustrates the position of that policy, which it believes that Croatia's entry into the EU is ending the national minority rights play. In the end, Croatia is neither the first nor the last country to try to determine against bilingualism. To us living on the border is still a fresh march against bilingualism in Trieste at the end of the 1980s. But there was no camouflage there, and all things were called by their name. In the procession were neofascists, and the Democrats were on the other side of the barricade. What's going on with us will show the future. For now there's only one thing that Vukovar's wounds can't heal politics doesn't want it. Will something change until the Constitutional Court's decision we'll see. In any case, one thing is clear, I don't know what's going to happen to the Vukovar Defense Department, I wish them the best, but I'm afraid after use it won't be more important and the city will still live alone as it has lived in the last two decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85058	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Excuse me, Comrade Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85059	Every politician, regardless of the level of power of decision, has a great responsibility as far as possible, should contribute to the establishment of peace and freedom in the full sense of the word in the basic mission of his action. The citizens of Croatia in the early 1990s, more precisely on 15 May 1991, came out in a high percentage in the referendum and in that same referendum, in an extremely high percentage of 90%, they declared themselves independent of Croatia. From the moment of decision to international recognition, each of our presidents, as well as most of the state-level summits, has been committed to Croatia's entry into full membership in the EU, thus for high European standards, thereby for civilization values, thereby respecting the rights of minorities. In addition to a demanding and difficult road to full membership in the EU, Croatia had an even more severe bloody, defensive Homeland War. And today from this place with all due respect I bow to all the honorable men who have fought for what is holy, my country, freedom and peace, with the duty of piety I worship all those who have given their lives, most worthy of what they have, with all due respect I worship the greatness of Vukovar. In a country that has a terrible burden of war behind it, a war that has brought many lives, a war that has destroyed homes, a war that has destroyed trust amongst its neighbours today to build and build trust between two or more communities of different nationalities and religion, a demanding and long-term process, a process in which respected colleagues and colleagues, we must all participate. So I repeat my first introductory sentence, each politician, regardless of where the power of decision implies a great responsibility, should contribute to the establishment of peace and freedom in the full sense of the word. Today, in 2014 when we had a difficult defence war, today, when Croatia passed a difficult and demanding process and finally became a full member of the European Union. Today's topic of co-worker and colleague is not a referendum issue concerning the right of only one minority. Today's topic is not a referendum issue concerning the rights of only one minority today's subject is a referendum issue concerning the rights of all minorities. Today's topic is not whether we are in favour or against the referendum but today's topic is the process. We have to ask ourselves whether it's a process that leads us forward or brings us back almost a century. That is why it is a great responsibility, responsibility and obligation for us to continue on the road ahead, otherwise tomorrow will be too late because we are all colleagues and colleagues of a potential minority in some way. Istra has had her burdensome and painful history. People in Istria went through painful and difficult times during and right after World War II. But the citizens of Istria chose their way. The path that opened the dialogue, the road that built the bridges of cooperation and Istria succeeded, because its citizens showed the fundamental core and essence of co-existence. Co-existence means living together, not side by side. Istria has succeeded because most have taken responsibility to be a protector, a guarantee, a guarantee of rights, and all minorities. The IDS cherishes the value of the largest civilizational reach, and thus I hold my contribution to Croatia's image as a modern and civilized state. In view of all of the above, the IDS Representatives Club, respecting the democratic procedure, supports and requests that the request to hold a referendum be addressed to the Constitutional Court. This does not challenge the IDS Club of Representatives in any way democratic dialogue and expression of different opinions but the IDS Advocacy Club is the view that if we really want to be a modern and civilised state, if we are really seeking the most noble content of democracy and individual freedoms, if we really want to ensure not only smooth progress equal for all citizens of one pluri of ethnic reality but also the guidelines of the future then our obligation and not only the obligation of colleagues and colleagues but also our duty to accept responsibility, create climate, create an environment for the development of democracy, human rights and thus all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Besides, we've been sworn in as agents. In the end, the European Union to which we belong today was conceived on the basis of the establishment of trust for the international large and small. And it was initiated by politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85060	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. First respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85061	Dear fellow Furio, in your debate, you pointed out that this issue is rather than the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, you are saying that it is spoken broadly and that it is all a policy. And it wouldn't have been, it wouldn't have been any issue if unfortunately it hadn't been spoken politically and manipulatively here. Namely, the Constitutional Court Committee did not have a single person from the HDZ who opposed the referendum issue and the Constitutional Court's decision of 13 January 2014 which said otherwise to the Parliament that he could not refuse the question himself but that he was obliged to refer it to the Constitutional Court itself. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is now denied here, although in some other matters we are happy to appeal to the Constitutional Court's decision. That's another thing. Furthermore, the debate was most debated here and therefore you have the full right at all whether we will apply the Constitutional Law and you have elaborated quite a bit on your colleague when, in the process that was yet adopted in 2002, in the process of approaching the European Union where we boasted about how we applied it, we continued to apply it. And that's how those who want to manipulate today get to talk in Europe. But it looks like they're underestimating someone else's ears. And so basically, the manipulators who say one thing yesterday, say it differently in two days. And instead of giving answers to concrete arguments, they essentially distort the truth themselves, ask the question, and give the answer. Why? Because it worked for them once, and then they still use that kind of stuff. They basically run away from the truth, run away, and simply have no arguments, so all that is stated, which is why the Proposer was saying where the power of argument is, where decisions are, no one is talking about it, but some other truth is being told, or is being manipulated by people, which is the most shameless.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85062	Thank you. The replica matches the esteemed Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85063	Thank you very much, that if the meaning of this referendum is summed up, it is actually a referendum on non-compliance with the law that is in force today and the constitutional law and the Law on the use of the language of national minorities. Since I was here when those laws were passed, I know what the point was, what was the meaning of those laws. They are being passed with two-thirds of the vote, which is why co-operation between the two largest parties that were then HDZ and SDP. And in the end they agreed that one third of the population was high enough to actually be in very few places that bilingualism would be established. When it turns out it's not gonna be like that, here comes the referendum to change it, so I'm saying it's all politics. Who's the one who's been arguing about that? But where there are also words of piety in Vukovar. In this matter, there are only words about how a minority will have the right to bilingualism that has never hurt anyone in their life, bilingualism has never hurt anyone in their lives, it is only, if someone is bothered to read only one language because they are both present, that the minority has the right to his own language only where he is in the majority. That's the whole story. And that's what the parties have already agreed on, but then, of course, it's policy-making now, and I agree with you, colleague Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85064	Second replica, the esteemed Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85065	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85066	Time. Thank you very much. On the line gossips the esteemed Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85067	Yes, it gives me a chance to talk about the famous article 8 that everyone calls on. Since I am unfortunately old enough to be in that House when this constitutional law was passed and I know what was the meaning of the introduction of the so-called Article 8. The meaning was positive, noble, which means that the laws on national minorities, and all the laws in Croatia should be written, should actually be understood as laws that would be for the benefit of all and for the benefit of both the majority and the national minorities. Today to bring it down to a actually political question that now whoever remembers that, for example, The bilinguality of any harm to national minorities can get out that it is opposed to this very article of the law, in fact, it is absolutely contrary to the meaning of this article. This has nothing to do with this article because all laws are passed in this House for the benefit of all and for the welfare of minorities and the majority. Well then, if it were as some would like to claim that since it did not lead or in their opinion it could not lead to, one bilingualism that could not lead to reconcillation but to opening... then it could be applied to any law and national minorities, as regards national minorities, and also to any law in general because you already see, this law is not to the benefit of citizens, e.g. It's not for my own good, so then I'll say that the law cannot be applied. Thank you for reminding me of that, and otherwise, if you remember when we went through the U.S. and there was bilingualism at the airport, it was all in Spanish and English, although it doesn't say it in any law but it was in Spanish because people think that that way people will live better if they write two languages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85068	Next replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85069	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Radin, I am grateful that in your debate you returned the focus of what we should discuss today. So the referendum question is not, and could, the signatures could also be collected for Vukovar to become a place of special pitet and to be incorporated into the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities, and in my opinion it could also be, but the referendum question of possible official use of the language and letters of national minorities when minorities in a given area are at least half. That's what this is about. So it would be good to go back to that question, so the question for which a relevant number of signatures has been raised and to decide on what our duty is, which is also the Constitution and the law, which is to be decided whether or not to send the issue to the Constitutional Court's assessment, because the Constitutional Court has made it clear if the Constitutional Court doubts the constitutionality of the issues or the Parliament is determined that the question alone is not in accordance with the Constitution to be sent to the Constitutional Court's assessment. So my opinion is that the Parliament should decide whether this is in accordance with the Constitution or not and send it to the Constitutional Court for review. And all the debates that go to be said exclusively to talk about victims are good with this debate, but of course I expect them to be credible and from all those who have really been countless times in Vukovar, who have done something for Vukovar and Vukovar, who have helped at least one Croatian defender, a member of the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, And not only the Vukovars who wave for the collection of small political points. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85070	Replication response, dear Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85071	Yes, unfortunately, for absolutely incomprehensible reasons, too, the question does not bring, cannot be brought into the city of Vukovar at all. And I would be the first to sign and vote to introduce a special Law on the Petties of the city of Vukovar, and I don't see how it's possible to achieve a single pitet towards the city of Vukovar or any other city, but this is a special town of Vukovar, and that such a pitet does not take care of everyone. This is exactly the same law that should determine bilingualism in Vukovar, which is exactly the kind of city that should give guidance for rehabilitation. That is exactly the law, I'm sorry, and such a city should contain rules on how to build a different future. Because we really need to talk about the past, but the past is also only about the past, that it won't actually solve our problems. And by the way, I think a lot, that the crisis in which our country is in today is basically such a movement that has come up about one question that I think has nothing to do with the crisis, and it has nothing to do with the piety of the city of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85072	Thank you. Next replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85073	Respect, Mr. President. counterpart Radin, Croatians have created a state of pride for themselves and national minorities and will never raise hands in Croatia to Croats, Croats to Serbians or Serbs to Italians again. Equality, full dignity and all rights for Croats and all national minorities. And that country will be better every day. I am sorry that you are going back to historical reminiscing accusing Croatia that it has driven a million people that Croats with these practically other than Roma and Jews are not absolutely guilty in any way. If you fell into that trap already, as Pupovac did not want to say that Croatia saved the Serbian medieval state, when Bulgaria... The Serbian king came to Solin and saved Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That Croatian boys were defending Serbia in the Kosovo field, if the Pupovac doesn't know, then let him read. If Serbian patriarch Krajacic had crowned the Zagreb ban of Jelačić, there was no problem. That Stepinac, volunteer... The front, more than half of the volunteers were Croats, serving the Serbian king at the Kamal chalan where the Serb front broke through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the Serbian one... He's setting up, and now the Serbs are challenging him not to be a saint, because he didn't like Serbs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When a large state was created and the Belgrade charter wanted to achieve hegemony, such as problems when fascists, your Italians came to Croatia,... Croatia and now you're suing what's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They moved out, no one chased out, they were surrounded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They had the opportunity to choose to go and they left, and you still support today, and today in Italy, the Mayor of Zadar is elected with the participation of Italian Parliament members and with your knowledge, and you never said a word about it. It means you're okay with it. And it's a fascist policy and it's still the continuity of fascist politics in Italy. And you never said a word about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85074	The replica matches the esteemed Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85075	My colleague Marasovic, I'm detecting an antifascist in you, and that's a pleasant news to me. But I want to tell you this. If you think they're the optanists you call them, as I call them, they're gone by their own free will, that's where you're very wrong. They left because they were being chased. No one goes willingly from their house and you should know that, because you're from those areas. Don't interrupt me now, you should know. I let you talk even though I didn't realize Three-quarters of what you said. [[Upadica Stazic: Listen to your colleague Marasovic, so stop throwing.]] But what I realized was wrong. People left because they were cornered. Three-quarters of my family left. I've seen my grandfather for four hours in his life, because he's gone and changed his whole life and everything, and you come to me and tell me that people are leaving their house because they're proselytes, so they're good to leave their house. Comrade Marasovic, you have no idea what happened then, and you lived there with your eyes closed. Although I also discover in you anti-fascists and worship your anti-fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85076	A new replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85077	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Radin, you've listed everything, but you forgot to say the course of events that followed to come to this referendum and this referendum issue. So it was not primarily the will of the Croatian authorities to discuss it, but the violent night offensive on Vukovar. That's what happened. Again, hidden without democracy, without the holiday of democracy, something happened that shouldn't have happened. You had all the arguments and the government and the ones that support her. It is clearly said that the Cyrillic letter which has always been a symbol of evil and suffering for the victims of war and the victims is still so in Vukovar, that it can happen that, the Stacer demanded and offered a solution, to find a proposal and to drink to Vukovar as all civilised countries do, and in that piety as the victim of the city that no Cyrillic letter is applied until at least everyone is buried. Until they're found and properly buried. No law changes were required, nothing was asked. It's all rejected energetically and thrown into the basket. And even the signature, 53 MPs, to discuss this in this House is as this possibility exists a business rejection at the end of the agenda and has not come to the agenda. These are all the things behind us. Afterwards, the citizens' initiative is founded "The Stacer for the Defence of the Croatian Vukovar" and goes with this issue and the collection of signatures. 22 victims' associations and 357 alike, as well as individuals and all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia have made clear in their signature what they want. And it's absolutely constitutionally possible. You're contesting what the Constitution says is possible and necessary. As soon as there's one tenth. 10% of citizens sign parliament has to call a referendum. No questions, no questions. That's what the Constitution says. Well, we're reading it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85078	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85079	And please, even though I didn't ask you for Zadar, answer the gentleman what happened to the Mayor of Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85080	The replica matches Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85081	Yeah, you said yourself that you had a replica of something I didn't say, so it's a little harder for me to answer a question that I didn't at all, about which I didn't even discuss. You're right, I didn't discuss how this referendum happened. ... I didn't ignore it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't discuss why I would otherwise have to say that in countries where there are laws these laws must apply. If there is a law, that law must be applied. The second thing is, I have not entered into it at all now that neither the Constitutional Court will apply to this constitutional issue nor whether it is legitimately collected. I didn't get into that area. You've dealt with these very questions. If you're telling me that and otherwise, we're not just talking about this issue right now, that all questions should be discussed, I agree. But on all the questions, do we agree? About all the questions. Do you have evidence that in any country in the world, and in Croatia, it means that all questions are discussed thoroughly before the law that exists is applied? I guess those questions had to be discussed before the law was passed. I'm telling you this law was passed because he thought, not me, of course, that there would never be a third of the Serbs in Vukovar on the census. That's why it was adopted, and that's why it was consensus, and that's why the parties agreed because you know well that when constitutional laws are passed, they need two-thirds of the votes. Then what you know happened, on the list of people I'm not going to go into again, happened are different numbers, so the law had to be applied. I think normally already in 20 years there should have been assumptions to discuss how and where and where and at what rate to apply it. I'm not getting into that. But not after the law already exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85082	A new replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Radin, you were talking at the beginning about this more politics issue, even though you yourself know that you were involved in this after that saga about lex Perkovic ruling they conducted a Cyrillic in Vukovar, or bilingual inscriptions, and you knew and you know what that could have led to. This is when you speak about a referendum issue related to Article 12. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is referred to as paragraph 1, but it also has paragraph 2 and has paragraph 3. This does not exempt national minorities from the equal use of language and letter used by members of national minorities, other conditions and methods of use of language and letter served by members of national minorities in representative bodies, etc. Then you said as Mr. Marasovic noted that we lost about 1 million members of the national minorities. But you forget that it's these anti-fascists or Partisans communists after World War II that kill, throw in caves almost half a million Croats mostly fertile age. That's what you're forgetting. If you wanted to be more credible, you could have said that. And yet you forget that you are the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities where one of your committee's tasks in the job description is also interstate contracts and programmes of international cultural education, etc. and other cooperation. Many colleagues in this House may not know that Croatia has Croatian national minorities in other European countries in 12 countries. We signed certain agreements with certain states. The most difficult situation is Croatia's national minority in the Republic of Serbia. You know that very well. Article 2 of that same Agreement states that the parties commit themselves to freedom of choice and expression, the right to enjoy the principle of non-discrimination and the right to protect against any activity, the right to preserve national identity and religion, the protection of equality of participation in public affairs, etc. But that didn't happen. And you don't problem it here, even though you have from the Croatian National Council, let's say from the Republic of Serbia, the representations of both the government and the Parliament, and to you as a committee. Well, for credibility's sake, you should talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85084	The replica matches the esteemed Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85085	I have spoken in this House on many occasions about the Croatian minority in European countries. Not only that, our committee also had a subcommittee for Croatian minorities in European countries. When it comes to smaller ones, it is always about European countries. Not only that, but I also visited the Croatian minority in other countries, and not only that, only in that part. And I also agree with you that Croatia should pay much more attention to the Croatian minority because it says in the Constitution. But I will remind you that for 15 years Croatia has been giving almost no new to Croats outside the country, for Croatia's minority outside, no money. And when HDZ was in power and now that the Kukuriku coalition is in power. That money was denied before. I still remember your colleague and my colleague Babic-Petricevic, who was constantly rebelling against it, and now she is not in the Parliament, but was in the Parliament during the last rule. Of course not, you give very little money and every year less money. So if you're saying that we should give more money to Croats outside of Croatia I totally agree with you, there's no doubt in me thinking about it, because it says in the Constitution but what you're giving me is one of my faults in front of so many Croats in this House, I think it's a little problematic, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85086	A new replica of the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85087	In your discussion, I am not happy that this issue is going to the Constitutional Court, it is now possible that it was a lapus, but the next Croatian Parliament today has to discuss and decide and answer only one question, whether there is a question of referendum in the Croatian Parliament doubting the constitutionality of the asked question or not. That's all the Parliament decides. You are a member of the ruling coalitions since you entered the Parliament in the 1990s and all the laws and legal frameworks, and all the legal frameworks that exist are your support for those coalitions. The Croatian Parliament, and your desire to decide on this, rather than the Constitutional Court, sends a dangerous message that the Croatian Parliament can decide by its decision that any of the issues offered for the civil referendum may decide not to call a referendum. The Croatian Parliament is authorized to issue a referendum under the Constitution, if there is no doubt about the constitutionality of the issue, and if there is any doubt about the constitutionality of the issue, then it is authorised to forward the issue to the Constitutional Court. And nothing but the only answer, the only question that lies before the Parliament, is the only answer we have to give, whether there is any doubt in this House about the constitutionality of the issues. If so, then we must go before the Constitutional Court whether it pleases you or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85088	The answer to the replica Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85089	We could discuss the Constitutional Court and maybe I will. But before I tell you one thing, don't tell the truth. From the year 92, when I entered this House until 2000, I was a member of the opposition. And now I didn't sign any papers to put me in a coalition in the Kukurik coalition. And I vote by agreement with myself that I think I should vote. So even now I'm not a member of the coalition, let alone from 92 on 2000, I don't know where you got off your feet this morning to say that, that's one thing. We could argue about whether I was a member between 2000 and 2004 because I didn't sign anything then, but somehow we were members of the coalition without written paper and we were wrong. That's one thing. The second thing, about the Constitutional Court, after the election year 3 months before the election, the Constitutional Court has changed the rights to vote by joining the old law with the new law, do you want me to be happy that something goes before the Constitutional Court? It's an emergency. It's not luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85090	The last replica of Radin comes from Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85091	Dear colleague Radin, one of your sentences said, "The early Vukovar must not heal because politics does not allow it." I agree completely with you. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic was supposed to be a more statesman and a less polymic with a headquarters that is part of a clean, rather banal political story. To her, this story is not given either by Vukovar or by the Vukovars. If the Vukovar government always swears on the anniversary of Vukovar, if it weren't for all of us, especially the ruling policies care about Vukovar so that Vukovar wouldn't be the city of "problem", Vukovar would be the most built city, Vukovar would be a city model with almost unemployed. It's just, that's what the Serbs would say, Vukovar serves politics as a promotional coin and that's it. Nonses, the absurdity of this question is when the minority becomes the majority are you for then having the rights to language and letter, it's nots of this question, so when the minority becomes the majority then they'll have the rights. It's not good when you even want to stifle that manifestation democracy, I repeat once again, the letters in this world wouldn't be if all the crimes were sanctioned by this principle, there wouldn't be either Latina or Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85092	The replica matches Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85093	And especially the Gothic letter, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85094	There are two replicas coming up, fellow Giovanni Sponzi. The first one will be brought out by Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85095	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Sponza, at one point you said this was all a process. I am fully in agreement with you, but it is a process that did not start by collecting signatures, i.e. a referendum initiative. This is the process that began in January 2013 when we asked the question on the current hour and warned what could happen when it was introduced into the official use of Cyrillic letters and... languages in the city of Vukovar. But both then and today, they've deafened to it and they've led to a process that... of what we have today. He also mentioned his colleague Djakic, several clubs of MPs encouraged the initiative and we have been on the agenda for months to discuss bilingualism and the introduction of panels in the area of the city of Vukovar, so the debate that could bring arguments to an understanding simply happened that today we have no discussion of the referendum at all, could prevent this whole situation. And the initiative for this referendum was launched by people, interestingly, who defended Croatia, Vukovar from people whose children gave their lives to defend Croatia from people who are looking for their children today. And to call them shame, like all those citizens of Croatia, therefore 650 thousand of them, to call them shame for the Republic of Croatia, so that is all the hypocrisy that we bring here today, which we are talking about. So we could have done a lot of things, but I don't know where we've been all this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85096	Second replica, Ante Babic. Wait, Comrade Sponza, you've got to get back to me. How do I know you want to replicate? Come on, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85097	Thank you. I believe that there is no dispute about the pie and I believe that it is actually at its very core, the very essence of the previously spoken by the respected colleague Vuksic. However, given the very context of the issues where we are actually talking about the rights of all minorities and that the rights of minorities could be realised if they essentially become the majority is the very essence of the question or the absurdity of the question. However, I believe that a key word is missing from today’s society and Croatian politics, which is responsibility. The responsibility to take a stand, the responsibility to make a decision and the responsibility to set guidelines that lead forward and which create this society and which create a perspective for this country. I think that's the key to the question and the key to everything we all have to concentrate on together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85098	Second replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sponza, you spoke and advocated tolerance and tolerance with the Italian minority in Istria. Well, that's the way it's supposed to be. However, Article 12, which we are talking about today, and I am also talking to you and Mr Radin, says that the equal and official use of language and letter served by members of the national minority is achieved in the field of local self-government units when members of a particular national minority make up at least a third of the population of such a unit. How many members of the Italian minority in Istria? 30% certainly isn't, 10%. So how can they have bilingual records? Is that in accordance with the law? It is not in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, Mr. Radin, but they have agreed, so, units of local self-government, to their statutes. So no one's bothered with that. On the other hand, in Istria, Italians don't celebrate fascist crimes, in Istria you don't have a parade with challenging parolees, I don't know the communities that live.... You don't have a flag of Italian in Istria, in this case of Serbians writing Vukovar with Cyrillic. To whom and whom do they challenge, to whom and to whom? I think that you should think about it, so no one is denying the right of national minorities, the right to language and letter, as is the case with you, but here in this case about Vukovar, the wounds are fresh and not good, I'm sure of tolerance and tolerance in the city of Vukovar, but I think it's too early for me too, if you're asking me if a Cyrillic can wait in Vukovar, I think it has to because it's the price of peace and co-existence, so when the time comes, let it be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85100	The replica matches Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85101	Here, all the time today during this debate, a continuously targeted awareness of the subject is being turned away. It's being manipulated by Vukovar, it's inadmissible. My colleagues and colleagues, we commit to acting responsibly, let's not turn away from the subject and let's not manipulate people, let's not manipulate the public. What you say is neither content nor subject nor matter. Look, it's important not to listen, but it's much more important to hear what someone's saying, if you'd listened carefully to what I said, then you'd understand exactly. In my political... always whatever my reach and possibility is very narrow, I always act on one principle to act and act in a way that connects people, not to separate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85102	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club, the respected Nedzad Hodzic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So I will try not to overly politicise with this subject but to say first of all that we at the National Minority Club will support this initiative of the Constitution Committee and that we will vote for this issue to go to the assessment of constitutionality. I think it's our duty because on the constitutionality of this referendum issue, I think there's too much dilemma and we'll certainly support it as a club. There we are also pleased that the position of the Constitutional Committee was unanimous, even what fellow Seks, on behalf of the HDZ, asked for the exception, which is especially good for me, so we must not prejudge the Constitutional Court's decision, but I also hope that this unanimity is, in fact, the result of a common assessment that it is an anti-constitutional referendum issue. That's probably not so, it's probably someone from this political position or something like that won't say, but here I hope that after the Constitutional Court's decision, this referendum issue will be rejected as a constitutional one, that such unnecessary referendum will not be and that we will finally have a question that concerns all minorities, and in fact, in gloves, something that only speaks of Cyrillic, so that we will remove this issue from the topic that we are talking about and this Assembly because I think we've lost too much time and too much energy has been spent on something that we shouldn't have come to at all. If we'd spent the same energy that we all spent, and young people in this country are learning Cyrillic today, we'd be richer people, we'd be more educated. And you believe me when that country fell apart and when Croatia was alone I expected as a Bosnian and as a Bosniak by nationality that I and my children would live in one society that would be more than averagely tolerated than the others, that I would keep nat average to education, but today I regret to realize that it is still in that country everything, in order to say that in me in 5 blankets in Bosnia, and that is why I am disappointed. That is why I am disappointed that we in one European Croatia today are much less Europeans than we were a year or two ago and that today we are talking about a letter that is between the other and the Croatian letter. As regards Article 8 Constitutional law, I think that article of the Constitutional Law should be under an urgent credible interpretation in this House. So that's how much conflicting interpretation of Article 8. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, I think, was not about any article in any of the other laws in Croatia, and we will agree in the club whether or not at the next session in the autumn, and I think we should start an initiative to question and get a credible interpretation of that law. As we understand it, members of national minorities, and I think some other colleagues, our thinking is diametrically contrary to what you or your party president read of the esteemed HDZ counterparts. So we see it as the diametric opposite. Who is right, this House will really need to give an answer because it is an important question so that we do not clarify it, and we will see in the end what we will all say about this article together. Is this Article 8 which will allow how you interpret if someone is not satisfied we will not apply certain articles of the Constitutional Law until some conditions are obtained, and we believe that if there is no need for and no bilingualism in Vukovar, we will change it by law, we will go as Parliament responsibly to make that decision, and then we will respect the law. It is inadmissible for us not to apply the applicable laws because then it opens up a wider front of possible manipulations whether we will apply any law that we adopt in this House of Commons. In the end, I will remind you only that the Croatian state was not created only by members of the Croatian people. These 15.5 thousand victims, with all due respect to each victim, and with one discomfort whenever I have to speak and compare someone's sacrifice, are all victims, so I must say that the members of the national minorities made a disproportionate contribution to the Homeland War and to the number of those who participated and in the number of those who died. You also need to know that by creating this democratic Croatia, all of which were sometimes children's diseases of Croatian democracy for a large number of members of national minorities were cancer wounds for them and their families because we respected colleagues and colleagues suffered something that you very often do not know about all the details. We have been arrested, expelled, robbed, imprisoned in this country, and we have believed in this country again because we are found here, this is our country, this is our homeland of our children, and we have to contribute to making this as soon as possible a democratic society. Once again, on behalf of the club, I will say that we will support this initiative to take this issue referendum to the assessment of constitutionality and hope that the answer to the question is against the constitution and that this referendum will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85104	We're moving on to replicas. First came the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85105	What has ended your debate should be supported by the Constitutional Court's decision of 13 January 2014. The Constitutional Court, in its decision, says in a positive determination, that means that the Croatian Parliament is obliged in any case to feel that it is necessary for a purpose or that there is a suspicion of the constitutionality of the referendum issue or of the conviction of the non-constitutional issue to refer the request to the Constitutional Court pursuant to Article 95. Constitutional law. That decision is aware, that decision, the decision by the Committee on the Constitution is aware of the removal of any dilemma as to how the Assembly itself should act or the committee itself has been removed and all and HDZ have been in favour of that decision. But why are we talking today, today we're talking about applying, or being a constitutional law. For 8 years, those who criticized today and what you looked at could have changed that law and constitutional law but did not boast in Europe with that law. Not only that, we have had here and every year we have the Annual Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. So here's how it is, I can remind you of what happened in 2009/2010. the years where then the power of the i.e. is praised The HDZ, among other things, defends the report by Slobodan Semljac, Davorin Mlakar and Karamarko. So they say nicely that we have advanced as regards the equal official language and letters of national minorities and states that during 2009, two units of local self-government city Daruvar and the town of Vukovar have prescribed and regulated official use, equal use of language and letters of national minorities etc., etc., that I do not list everything else. But what's this about? This isn't about that, the people who look at us deserve a minimum not only of what others swear and manipulate not to lie to them. .../Time./... I remind me of the application of the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with The Hague Court Then why did the government say it was hostile, no general left [[Thank you very much.]] When those generals came, they went there without a word and without a letter. [[/Intruder: Time's up. My colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85106	The replica matches Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85107	... to question the constitutionality of all that we believe is under suspicion. [[Specially enabled.]] And of course we expect from the Constitutional Court that, as the country's largest legal experts, they will be run by the profession unburdened by any political views, regardless of their composition and their right to have their own political opinions. So, we expect the profession to say its own and I hope that such an answer from the profession will be that it's an anti-constitutional issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85108	New replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85109	Dear fellow Hodzic, you said we were discussing something that shouldn't have happened at all. And you said, "We see it differently diametrically than our HDZ colleagues." And I'll tell you why you see it and we see the opposite of you and this whole debate. A few days ago in my neighborhood there was a mass and a memory of a destroyed, burned village of Podhum in the Gronick field. People came out of the service, were welcomed by Italian soldiers, killed by all women and children, and burned down their village. We watch Auschwitz, we hear about what happened in World War II, and now we're back in history, we all feel that pain, but neither these Podhum nor Auschwitz are walking around these people who have committed those acts. And the Vukovar, the Vukovar, is the day that those who killed are walking around today, and today those who know where they are buried, who we still don't know where they're buried, and we definitely shouldn't have come to that. You shouldn't have thrown those people a salt wound in the cover of darkness at this time. And that's why what's agreed with you is that at this point, there was no need to discuss and fully understand and support all these people who have risen against it. Because they were challenged to do so. For no one has ever answered for Vukovar, for Vukovar has been judged for no one, the Vukovar is burned, the Sheepchare has unearthed how many years after the reintegration, how many more dead, how many mothers do not yet know where their sons are buried. That's what we're discussing, and that's why we started raping that article of the law to write a Cyrillic in the cover of darkness in front of these people. The people who sang "Send us salads we'll slaughter the Croats" are still walking around this town today. [[Intruder: Time.]] And that's why we're discussing something that shouldn't have been discussed at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85110	... You haven't answered, come on answer but dear fellows, please pick up, you have tiles if you want to respond to the replica, lift the plate to see it clearly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85111	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, maybe I didn't. I raised my hand, okay. So two things I'll remind you of. It is our responsibility to enforce our laws on the territory of our country. We know what they used to sing in Vukovar. But I'll remind you of one more thing. Somewhere in your neighborhood where you come from, there's a ship called Nina, so you know what I'm talking about. '92. The year I ended up on that ship with hundreds of Bosniaks and some Serb, so my friend who was arrested with me in Poreč in August of '92. And the Serb was tortured, beaten, and sang Ustasha songs by his nationality around 12 pm on that ship. It's our responsibility and for what someone sang "we'll slaughter the Croats" that's the responsibility of those with whom I think we've cleared and driven, we're now building our own country. And in this House we pass laws that we are obliged to implement on the territory of this country and take responsibility for what we have done. I said here on Friday there will be wars as long as our heroes are the murderers of their children and their heroes are the murderers of our children. With that to be clear, children go and our lives go into the future, not the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85112	A new replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85113	Thank you very much. Comrade Hodzic, you have said that you support this question, namely that the Parliament decides to send the issue to the Constitutional Court but that, if I understand correctly, the Parliament should not decide. But my opinion is a result of so many times quoted opinions or decisions of the Constitutional Court of 13 January 2014 and that the Assembly must first, before sending this proposal to the Constitutional Court, decide whether this issue is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Because the previous question is to remember about the referendum, the Croatian Parliament has not sent to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has taught us that if the Parliament considers that the issue is not in accordance with the Constitution or if the Parliament is not sure that it is then sent to the Constitutional Court. So, with everything else, with a decision to send this issue to the Constitutional Court's assessment of constitutionality, we must have the strength and dare to say and the courage because, as we heard some of them were signing for the referendum, and then they said that we don't need a referendum, we have to have the courage to decide and vote that this is a matter that the signatures have been raised in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of the Minors or that is not and that is the case. That is why this is primarily a legal debate, it should be, but in its essence it is a political one that reveals all the nature of Croatian politics, so very often and hypocrisy and the fact that we are talking today and doing each other tomorrow, and the day after that the third, but also the one we think, the other we do and the third we actually order.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85114	Replication response, dear Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Kosor, we've probably got something wrong. So I absolutely support the profession, I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer, but I expect the profession to be guided by expert arguments and I believe, so I believe, you have to reassure me that I would not believe, so I believe in the institutions of this country in the beginning. Unfortunately, this question has grown into something, so remember what happened in Vukovar, so remember what happened on the anniversary of the 11th month, so unfortunately it has turned into a political competition. And what I like to say in a joke like this, I feel like the Croats don't need enemies, they're enough for themselves. Now that we have an independent, sovereign, whole-country NATO Pact and a member of the European Union, we are discussing Cyrillic instead of starting a joint meeting today in Cavtat of economics and statesmen from the region, so in the morning our man from Croatia said very nicely, I heard this on the radio, how to exploit this common potential. Serbia has potential towards the Russian market, Macedonia has listed it as someone with closeness to the Turkish market, BiH to the Arab world, and Croatia to the complete European Union and the West. And instead of building a better future, we're still poisoning ourselves with a past that's disgusting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85116	New replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85117	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hodzic, you have again complained that Croatia is not giving you any rights, generally speaking. So you said you were sad about it and so on. Croatia has always given you in that unfortunate state in '40, '41. The mosque was made from that museum over there and today it's called the mosque. Just laugh, I'm just finding out the historical facts. But then came socialism, when you were not allowed in Bosnia to do mosques in Zagreb, the highest mosque in these areas was made. Do you know that? So now Croatia has come, so the mosque in Rijeka is the most beautiful in Europe, and you said it yourself. So I'm headed for Split and I'm in Zagreb, listening to his speeches regularly. You have, all the defenders of Croatia and we do not share, there was also the Serb defender of Croatia, here should be said and anyone who is a Croatian Serb defender should give him twice as much pension as the Croat, I am for it. But what is he being discriminated against? Don't single him out. He was obliged to defend Croatia, did nothing special compared to an Antu who died and so on. Okay. But you as a representative of the national minorities won't understand that you should say that in Bosnia, they are a people there, not a national minority, have no right to elect their president, their own representative in power. But what I've come to you for is a replica, you pretend to be a little bit, I'm not going to say, I'm not going to say, we're here at the High House, what you think is now in the Srebrenica cemetery put on the Cyrillic title, that's what you'd say, and there's 8,000 people killed, a lot. But there was a murder of Muslims, Bosniaks, 100,000, so no one gets... on that one. And if he puts in Srebrenica on the Srebrenica Cyrillic, would that be unfair and so on. That's what these comrades went to Vukovar to put it on. On Ovcar they wanted to put on the Cyrillic this is Ovcara, which is the same source of the law, Mr. Pupovac, representatives of the national Serb minority, whom you will, which are here.... This is the Ovcara on Cyrillic. Is that Hodjiæ all right? And you're deliberately avoiding that question and we're talking about some Cyrillic nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85118	Time's up for this replica of yours. Replication response, Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you've just triggered something I've been talking about on many occasions. Yes, in Srebrenica, it says exactly on the Cyrillic of Srebrenica, and it doesn't bother anyone. In Sarajevo, it says on both the Latin and Cyrillic, new Sarajevo and Sarajevo, and it doesn't bother anyone. Srebrenica has 8372 killed in genocide and has almost so many more killed in a column that broke through Srebrenica towards Tuzla on free territory and in all the evil that was happening in the region. Once again, I apologize to all the victims for the comparison because it is rude, but the number of silver victims in that broader sense is equal to the number of total victims during the Homeland War. And yet that doesn't bother us, we ask that crime be prosecuted, that criminals be punished. It is true, the only thing bothers people there is because they can't speak Bosnian, so with all the evil in schools, children learn the history that someone wrote in Republika Srpska with a view to the Srebrenica events from Republika Srpska, and we know that they are. But that's exactly what he's saying, and here as a people, you disappoint me that you can trouble something that can't be a problem and that you haven't stepped into that democracy, into one future. We expected all of Croatia, so I studied in Bosnia, postgraduate in Belgrade, we always experienced you pro-European, pro-Western, culturally. You didn't get anything off that Balkan average. That's my impression, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85120	The next replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85121	You've called on an average tolerance society. You probably meant some averages in Europe. However, I will remind you that yet the Republic of Croatia is the only member of the European Union who has suffered a severe war of victims and destruction in its territory in recent decades, and that the same Republic of Croatia today is the state that has one of the most advanced laws or the most liberal in terms of the rights of national minorities. And that on the other hand, the same Republic of Croatia is one of the poorest and most underdeveloped European states at the bottom of all economic indicators. Therefore, in fact, the Republic of Croatia has stepped rightly on the rights of national minorities far above all else, and that on the other hand, the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people have shown a very high level of tolerance and preparedness, in fact, to accept those who wanted to destroy them and their country. And when it comes to consistent law enforcement, where you were referring to a constitutional law that is actually at the level of the Constitution, I must remind you of Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 1 which states that each employee has the right to earn a living free and worthy of his or her family. Do we consistently implement the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia in Article 55(1)? No, because a good part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia today who live and work out of their wages cannot afford a decent life. So the same thing is done in fact in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in an article that is not being implemented. We advocate consistently and that part of the Constitution is finally being implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85122	A new replica, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85123	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, a few things. Comrade Hodzic, you are a representative of the Bosniak minority. On many occasions, I met representatives who came from Muslim countries, listened to what the representatives of the Muslim religious community say here and believed that Muslim status in Croatia is the best in the European Union of all countries. So I can't understand you here criticising the implementation of the protection of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia. Now you have gone so far in response to one replica that collectively you accuse the Croats that they are not European enough, I hope you will determine what is Europeanism and what is not. I think you've taken a little too much authority to help strengthen the dialogue between the majority people and the minority you represent. Furthermore, you mentioned the unanimous decision of the Constitutional Committee again, but you mentioned later. However, because of all and Croatian citizens, I am Vlado Shex, who was at that session, told anyone with common sense that it is clear that I supported and did not. So it is a procedural trap made by the ruling majority where it has united both the question and the argument. So we've been clear about the question, and we're against arguments. However, you have made it so that you can deliberately manipulate it. Furthermore, you mention the Constitutional Law on Minorities and say that we will need as a Parliament and give it a credible interpretation. Well, we're really introducing some new practice that the courts aren't doing their job anymore, but that we're going to give the laws here and then I guess we're going to judge them. Well, it's about the basic principles of democracy, which is the division of power, so I really don't understand whether, after 25 years of democracy, we came here, or a few parliamentary deputies, and began to question the fundamental principles of democracy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85124	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've brought a lot out. I'll take a few things to look around. Let's go from the end. So I mentioned the credible interpretation of Article 8 precisely because we MPs, politicians interpret it quite differently. Well, isn't it most natural to ask ourselves such a question here in this House, to hear all the legal experts, all the opinions. Because the way we're experiencing it, you're interpreting it in the diametric opposite and I don't see what it is, what practice it is. I think that we should ask every article of the law that we have in the diametrical opposite of the one we are thinking about in the Parliament that we are passing the laws. It's the most natural thing for me. Secondly, you said I was a representative of the Bosniak national minority. Exactly, I am an agent and four other national minorities living in the common state and I can tell you that I am not interested in your experience with Muslim countries at all. Why do you associate me as a representative of the Bosniaks and others, why do you associate my blades with, for example, Muslim countries from the Arab world? I only have faith in each other. I have a common state with Croats in Bosnia, with Serbs in Bosnia, common history, common language, etc. We're only different from each other in our religion which is a minor difference, because today you're a little less of a believer, tomorrow you don't have to be that at all, it doesn't matter. But you can't change your history. So you took the wrong form to conclude about me and what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85126	Last line, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85127	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hodzic, real life is too often out of line with all the legal norms, so so is this question that is crucial today. Probably some of your private questions are also not with legal norms and your debts to someone. But this question certainly requires a completely different option. If due to peaceful reintegration, because of the ceasefire of war and hostilities, it allowed Serbian young people not to serve under Croatian law, and it was a gesture of good faith of the Republic of Croatia, and today individuals go to serve and train at training centres in Serbia and nobody. When you speak of consistent application of the law, you must remember your sins, so you are not as a national minority neglected to do so and read what they say about you and your debts. Similarly, members of national minorities in Article 8 are represented and respected but equally by the Croatian people by developing understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among them alike. That article 8 says the same thing. So also the Croatian people develop understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among them. If you think that on the Cyrillic letter that carried evil with it and said "There will be meat, we will slaughter Croats" as well as in Srebrenica on Cyrillic when it says "The knife, the wire, the Srebrenica" you should also take these two burdens of suffering and say that, for the victims, there must be a special pite. And this was proposed to this Croatian Parliament, was also sent by the Law on Vukovar City of Special Pitet a year ago. President of the Parliament, the majority of the Parliament, not a word of it. All of the affairs, all of the democratic performances and the Staff and MPs have been dismissed. When there is no more dialogue, when there is no understanding, when there is no crumb of humanity nor towards the city of the victim as well as according to Srebrenica then the signatures and the people decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85128	The answer to the replica Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So let's start again from Srebrenica and we'll go back to these private questions that you're making, I don't know what your motive is, but you'll get an answer to that, too. Just because we're drinking to all the victims, we can't just talk about silver victims, we remember them because it's one crime genocide proven in court. About 100,000 people in BiH, my BiH, died in the war in Bosnia, and I don't know how many are yours, so about 100,000 people are killed in Srebrenica in this genocide, 8 372. Do you want to forget these 90,000 victims, don't they deserve the same pie? Same thing here, same thing. Secondly, Mr. Djakic is talking about private debts. And the fact that the Internet writes ok just so you know that in time I started fighting corrupt tax inspectors in 2007, one of whom was later admitted to dealing with some Golemovic there, and he's just a HDZ councilman in Vodnjan. The man who imprisoned the tax inspector in Poreč in an investigative prison after 25 days changed his testimony in 2007, freed the inspector and became a HDZ councilman in the city of Poreč in 2009. So much for that. Whether or not I owe someone something, it's my business, it's the company's debts, because I've had a heist of enormous proportions from the ministry run by your colleague. So you're going on very slippery ground and you'd better not read everything on the Internet that's written.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85130	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, John Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85131	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, it is not good in this House where laws are passed that apply to all Croatian citizens that the parliamentary representative of the powerful judicial verdict calls in the way he has now called.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85132	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club of the Independent Representatives Group, Damir Cain will speak. Don't you? You? Juhas Shandor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At first, I would like to point out that I support the initiative to forward this referendum issue to the Constitutional Court, but I must point out that this should not have happened in my opinion. I believe it is necessary to bring forward legal solutions as soon as possible to limit the possibility of asking the referendum questions. We're a relatively small country with a small population, but our imagination to question is infinitely large. As far as the question is concerned, I think it's incorrectlycommunicated. And here in this House and in the collection of signatures, there's always talk of a referendum on Cyrillic. For me as a representative of the Hungarian national minority, it is not a referendum on Cyrillic, it does not say anywhere. It's about using the language of all national minorities. It is about the use of Cyrillic in Vukovar, Hungarian language in Baranja, Italian language in Istria, Czech language in Daruvar. And that's the truth, and that's what you have to say. I believe that in this way it was explained to people what it was all about that perhaps the number of those who spoke out for the referendum would be questioned. I come from an area where bilingualism is and we can say trilingualism is a perfectly normal thing. By World War II, Baranja was spoken on the street of Hungarian, German and then so on. Yugoslav language. It was written Cyrillic, Latin, celebrated Catholic, reformist, Orthodox saints and holidays, and everyone was perfectly normal. In this sense, we are still raised today, although there is a slight change. In the past few months, this issue has been quite commented on, the public has often mentioned the feelings, whether now, whether we should wait a little longer, the debate is being debated and here it is now. But I have to say something with all due respect to the Vukovars, with all due respect to this city that I still think is sacred, and that this question may have been in some different way regulated to pass some kind of law or not put all this into question by the use of minority languages, minority languages. There are two old Hungarian settlements in Croatia, one located in the Vukovar-Srijem County of Korođ, the other located in Osijek-Baranja County of Laslovo. It's two old settlements over 800 years old. In 1991, Laslovo numbered about 1,300 inhabitants and there were about 50% of Hungarians, Laslovo was the first line of the defence of Osijek and the defence lasted 152 days there. During that time the village was destroyed, burned, destroyed and displaced, no brick left on bricks. And I would beg that you don't take me wrong, I don't want to share the victims, I don't want to share what's sacred to us all, but of those 187 Laslovans who defended Lasslo 105 was Hungarian, 48 defenders died, and according to the information I received from the commander of the Laszlova defense the other day 28 was Hungarian, four defenders were missing, 6 civilians also. They're still looking for 15 bodies of defenders, nine of whom are Hungarians. And again, don't get me wrong, so let's start bidding Hungarians, Serbs and Croats now, etc. Korođ also had about 740 inhabitants, the vast majority of the 638 were Hungarians, the fighting lasted for 4 days, 120 houses were counting, 80 were completely destroyed, nothing was left, the population was displaced, 5 people died and one still wanted. All of them died so that they could live in a free, happier, and better country where their rights could be exercised. They all died so that they could speak freely their language that they learned from their parents and where they will write at the home of the culture next to the Croatian name and Hungarian name, where there will also be a Hungarian inscription at the local office next to the Croatian name and the Hungarian name, where they will also write in public institutions next to the Croatian and Hungarian names. They're all dead and they're still looking for their own, and they all have parents, they have sons, they have daughters, they have friends, and they all have feelings. And now someone remembered that language they spoke for 800 years in that village crossed over and that they no longer had the right to it. That's how I look at the problem, I look at it, I'm asked by the people of Lasslova, I've been asked by the people of Koroje and we can talk, we can discuss as much as we want. My opinion or dilemma is whether adopting this referendum question if it comes to it, we go forward or back? It's hard to answer that. If we say we're going back, so those rights these people are already 800 years old, then how long are we going back, Mr. Cain? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85134	He'll continue his colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85135	Are we going forward or back wondering Mr. Juhas? And indeed with these referendum questions I am also deeply convinced that we are going not only back, but simply down. Mr. Pupovac said when he spoke or better reminded us that the Cyrillic was banned in Croatia and we know who banned it. It's clear today in 2014 and I won't even be able to compare 2014 to 41, I won't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't even put a sign of equality between 2014 and 41. And whoever puts an equal sign between 2014 and 41 would be tenentious, not correct, would not be fair to himself. However, what I'm saying is that this "referendum" is simply a dangerous political initiative. I disagree with those who said this morning it was politics, no it's a dangerous policy. The aim was first to fight for political change in Vukovar, but the spirit was released from the bottle and could endanger not only minorities, but the hard one could endanger the country as a whole, each of us individually. Just before, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic reminded us that when it came to the Constitutional Law of the Postulate of the Constitutional Law, the then Minister and Mr. Karamarko and Mr. Mlakar were defended by the then Minister and no one at that time was disputed Article 8. I say there is no, I mean no more dangerous referendum or referendum questions than this question. Before us, someone reminded the Cyrillic of the invention of "Holy Climent Cyrilski" is undeniable that Cyril and Methoda invented the verb, the Cyrillic used by the Russians, Ukraine, Belarusian, Macedonians, Bulgarians, Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the clear Cyrillic is as Croatian as the Serbian letter. Cyrillic was used in Croatian space before the Latin, the verb before the Cyrillic, and Cyrillic was written even in St. Peter's in the forest, about ten kilometers from Pazin. And now, is that to the benefit of Istria? Well, I don't think any damage to that is done, if the Cyrillic was written in the 12th century or if it was written today. The war was not waged in Croatia, Cyrillic was not the cause of aggression, Cyrillic must not have caused casualties. So when we talked about that peaceful reintegration, no one was even setting up... Cyrillics. Why? Because it's a made-up question. Okay, we have 600,000 signatures today, but to question fundamental human rights, I say we can't even hold a referendum. Right, someone here asked a question, who should be above national democracy? Someone will say God himself, well, maybe not him, but does most have the right to endanger minorities? This is about the letter, right. That letter is a symbol today, but explain it to someone in Europe. The referendum in my opinion clearly does not, well, the Constitutional Court will be the one to decide how it will decide because if this goes through, why, for example, We couldn't pass another referendum tomorrow, if, I don't know, all Serbs had to move out like that policy was being led when I mentioned the 41st, or that everyone had to cross over, etc. Why don't you just keep your mouth shut about Cyrillic today? Is Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic in the positions of those who are for taking down bilingual plates? I ask myself that question. I say it is a dangerous issue for every minority community in the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't matter if it's Italian in Istria, if it's Czech in Daruvar, whether it's Hungarians or some third. Cyrillic yet, and I'm going to say, it's not a cause of impatience, Cyrillic is not a cause of division, Cyrillic was the reason, I say, the movement of political change in the city of Vukovar. Let the Constitutional Court make it clear, but we cannot play democracy by questioning other people's rights. We must say no to the referendum. We don't have to, let everyone say whatever they want, but, you know, according to that story when the Nazis came for the Jews, said the one... I wasn't protesting because I wasn't Jewish. When they came for the Communists, I didn't protest because I wasn't a Communist. When they came for the Roman Catholics, I didn't protest because I wasn't Roman Catholic. When they came for me, there was no one left to talk about it. It is true that nearly 600,000 people have given their signature or so many signatures have been collected for this referendum. I know that it is more than respectable and it speaks very much of us, it speaks of both the Croatian moment and Croatia as a country. Individuals like they don't want one better, onelerant Croatia that won't be at the expense of anyone. Cyrillic, a lot of people here said the Croatian letter as much as the Serbian letter. And no one can take that away from us, which doesn't mean that, let's say, if we were to listen to this right-hand side, we wouldn't be able to ban it. But what do we get? Is that gonna make us better people? Are we going to be one more prosperous society? Would it be a fairer world if we did it? No, we're not getting anything, we're gonna lose a lot, and that's why I say open, not referendum. This referendum treats all minorities, I said, began from Serbian, Czech, I don't know, to Italian, in this explanation, on these 10 pages mention international contracts, but did not mention and take over the contracts that the Republic took over from ex Yugoslavia, concerning the position of minorities. Threaten, therefore, their position as minorities, it is today as if someone is trying to endanger the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia even though it is unquestioned and today no one really is, or is, jeopardizing us. When I talk about these contracts, I'm also talking about the Paris Peace Treaty of '47. between ex Yugoslavia and Italy, I am also talking about that London Treaty and that... and every contract talks about the position of minorities and if they opened it as a question, I assure you, they would not only question the position of the Serb community in Vukovar, but throughout the Republic of Croatia of every minority....
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85136	Thank you. We've reported 14 replicas. They don't fit in five minutes as long as we have until the break, they're gonna take an hour of that replica and answer to the replicas and I'm setting a break by 3:00. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85137	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Josip Djakic, not present. Stephen Milinkovic. Tomislav Klaric, come in. Yeah. [[/Intruder Klaric: For replica?]] To the presentation of my colleagues, Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85138	Here, colleague Juhas, you've said well. You said that minorities and your Hungarian, Italian from Istria fought for free and independent Croatia and created in this Homeland War, died, had victims. I've been talking all this time, and seriously, I think that minorities are the wealth of our people. But you said one more word, a sentence, that we were having a needless debate and it definitely shouldn't have been that the government had any meaning and understanding. The fact is that in Vukovar, children of Serbian nationality still learn a different history from children of Croatian nationality. The fact is that during the night the table was put in the early morning and the fact is there's still a whole series of things in Vukovar that had to be solved before it even started to think about setting these tables. So, this debate is completely unnecessary because it should not have come to it either, it should not have come to a table in this way in Vukovar, introducing, imposing a Cyrillic, since the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff has also proposed, spoken, negotiated, prayed, but the understanding of this government has not been and this literally leads nothing until we realize together that what happened in Vukovar is neither good for Croatia nor for the Serb minority in Vukovar, and then, consequently, neither for all minorities in our country. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85139	Replication response, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85140	Well, I'm glad you understood that, but maybe there's something else you didn't or didn't explain enough. I haven't and I haven't spoken very much about Vukovar, and I still feel that this referendum is not about Vukovar and it's not about Cyrillic. I said that in a certain way it might have been different to resolve, the Vukovar issue, but what was proposed, and what was discussed was the application of the Constitutional Law to the equal application of the language of all national minorities in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Not only in Vukovar and Istria and Daruvar and Baranja, but also in all those parts where due to different historical circumstances there are more significant numbers of members of national minorities. ... The question is, in fact, I think that I have also answered that communication in the very asking of this question, communication in the very setting of the referendum, is wrongly asked. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No one spoke of using a language, of equal use. There were signs, they showed up crying, not Cyrillics in Vukovar. I agree. ... That's not what I'm getting into. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85141	Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85142	Thank you. Comrade Juhas, you are on a good track when you say that this referendum will have a bit of a wider sequence than the first idea was to ban Cyrillics in Vukovar. And because of those who are the bearers of this idea and because of all of us, I must say that this will be more difficult to reflect on other minorities than on the Serb national minority. In fact, if we raise the referendum threshold to 50% as the promoters insist, then absolutely in the Municipality of Končanica, the Czechs will be left without the possibility of having a language, a letter and everything else. The Hungarians in the Prince's vineyards will no longer have that possibility, and so far they have. The Slovaks in the municipality... will be left without it. The Italians in Grožnjan Municipality will also lose their ability to use their minority language and their letter. Therefore, you will be collateral damage to a Cyrillic case and one... according to a Cyrillic who is trying to impose this referendum. And that's the thing we need to know. A higher price will be paid by other national minorities than will be touched in this case by the Serb national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85143	Replication response, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85144	SANDOR JUHAS: After World War I 1920, in the area of today's Republic of Croatia there were about 110 settlements with the majority Hungarian population. Today, there are only 7 such settlements, but none are municipal centers. If you start strictly applying this law, it settlements where today is the majority Hungarian population, such as the Dragon Man, such as..., Kotlin, Far Away, etc. where almost 80% or least is the vast majority of the Hungarian population and where I have warned before, where there are still people who do not even know the Croatian language, they will actually end the use of language, which is one of the basic rights. So something that's been working there since the 1,000s, it's gonna stop working now. And that should be made clear. Here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85145	Zeljko Sabo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85146	Thank you, Vice President. It's hard after an hour and a half to replicate now, but I'll only replicate the first sentence when you say you're sad or so it seems to me that you didn't even have to come to this debate in the House about what we're discussing. I personally think and replicate that it should have come a long way earlier and that especially to the Vukovars that we're talking about in some way now, you're all courting, you don't know what kind of nice words we would have expressed towards that victim. But higher than that victim and the question that has been current since the time the census came out, when the census showed that the legal conditions for the application of bilingualism in the city of Vukovar were met in Vukovar. And when are we going to start in the House, we're going to pass laws that won't interpret whether the left and right, any other lawyer, the prosecution like this, when we're going to pass laws that make these laws clear to everyone and also to Mr. Engineer or to the one who isn't? Because we always have a catch in any law and this constitutional law that someone at the time of the law was thinking and installing an article because they thought so. And 20 years after that, those people who thought something about it disappear, and now we're interpreting some law and article 8 that someone interprets like this, but someone thought what that article 8 of the constitutional law wanted when it was put there. When will these laws be clear, no matter what law it is, and especially in the Law on Constitutional and National Minorities? What I'd like to say is that werewolves of this debate have no use, they just listen to us respect and try to express our emotions to respect our victims. And I've been listening to you since 2009. All hypocrisy in 2009 [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] Insect ZREBEC: Not a colleague./... [[Thank you...... they had two parliamentary representatives so I'm just asking to extend and I'm giving up the vice president here from my discussion because I'm going to say everything here right now. .../]] Okay, um... Just let me finish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[No, thank you very much.]] Since 2009, I've been lonely. Stayed, just to finish, sorry, left alone in this hypocrisy what we're discussing today [[Thank you.]] When is... [[Don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85147	Comrade Parliament, it's almost a minute now. Thank you very much. [[Sabo raid: Adopted in 2009 in the statute that you have settled in Istria, you have placed a Cyrillic HDZ, SDSS and HSP with the city statutes.]] That's enough now. Comrade Sabo! [[I vetoed that decision because the law was not fulfilled and Mr. Mlakar knows it.]] You can't speak longer than the replica lasts, so 2 minutes and ask for compensation with the debate. [[/Sabo intrusion: OK, I'm done.]] The answer to the replica of Shandor Juhas. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85148	... The referendum was not supposed to take place, nor should it occur then I thought primarily that it would be necessary to adopt legal solutions that would regulate the question, the possibility of asking questions in the referendum. [[Specially enabled.]] We're small, but we all have some ideas. We can now get into a situation where someone remembers to introduce a zero VAT rate or I don't know 2% of any tax. Well, of course all people will vote for it, of course all people will go and sign it. So it is necessary to finally settle the matter of the referendum once, and it is necessary to finally pass a quality law that will then settle these issues. Because we're discussing something again and we've been talking all afternoon about Vukovar, well done, but that's not a referendum issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85149	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85150	Comrade Juhas, you said that and now you've repeated that this referendum should not have been reached, and that's where we'll all agree. And we respect all minorities especially your Hungary and it is not the tendency of our debate to abolish your mother tongue or your rights. And it's true and you're right that it shouldn't have come to this and that the referendum shouldn't have been. But what could the people of Vukovar have done? What the Staff could do, he prayed, he warned, as early as May 2013 the government took them in to discuss this problem, to find a solution through the achievement of the Vukovar project, the place of special pitet that we witnessed all the government had responded, humiliated them, ignored them, refused to meet or receive people from the Staff. She called them all sorts of ugly names. It's all been ignored. 53 MPs of this Parliament have also been ignored who, and still ignored themselves, have asked the same question and placed the same item on the agenda. And maybe in the eighth term, maybe it's up to the current government. And then you're surprised that the people of Vukovar were looking for the support of the citizens of Croatia that they had organised, that they had collected 635 thousand signatures thinking that this was a national government, that this government came from the people and that it would respect the will of the people. But then we see that it happens all the other way around and that it shows the government its true face. You say in article 8, so it's clear in article 8. Not to be offended by the majority of the people, insulted by the victims, insulted by families, killed, missing, raped. Just one more sentence, please. [[Thank you.]] And surely it is the city of Vukovar, which you yourself have called, not that only these citizens are offended, but they are sacred, they are a hero city.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85151	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Shandor Juhas Please keep an eye out, there's a lot more reports, take care of the weather. [[That's the difference between us and you all.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85152	I'll be right there. You asked what they could have done. So they could certainly have put together a different referendum question that would only apply to Vukovar. You mentioned earlier, it might have been a question of whether you wanted Vukovar to become a place of special pie. Sure, 100% would. ... All citizens of the Republic of Croatia would come out and support the referendum. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That it was a referendum question, but the referendum question isn't like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The referendum issue is about the use of minority languages, meaning both Hungarian and Slovak and Italian and all and people didn't know it. People don't know that. It comes to me there in a village one was television, says I support anti-civilian referendum, so it's just that, man, you vote against yourself, you don't vote, you don't vote, you support yourself, and that's not what it says, because it says I'm against Cyrillic. So that was the question, if the question had been asked like that, everyone would have supported 100% and it wouldn't have come to this. ... A place of special pitet. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85153	Drazen Djurovic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85154	Thank you. Well, a colleague and a 30% census so far have not been a distraction in many places, municipalities and cities to install in the local statutes provisions on bilingualism and where the share of minorities was less than 30% if I'm not mistaken. Well, for example, in Daruvar, the Czech minority is 21.30 percent. So if this 30% censorship wasn't a problem where there was some kind of joint decision in that local environment, and the minority and the majority to use and introduce bilingualism, why would it be a problem when it's 30 to 50, so local statutes and where it's built in are not going to change. And on the other hand, why would it change if they were both sides, both the majority and minorities or those who live there agree to remain a bilingual provision in their statutes of municipal or city. So I don't think anyone here has had any momentum, and neither have those who have proposed a referendum nor we who are here know that we are dealing with the problem of the Italian minority, and that there are 10% of Italians in some municipality in Istria who sees no problem, nor will the provision of raising censorships to 50% under the Constitutional Law actually apply to these municipalities and cities where the municipal council has built it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85155	Shandor Juhas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85156	So we all know how councils work, city and municipal, and basically something that is brought there is very easy to change. We had a situation a few years ago where most in Vukovar had built it into the statutes, but now we will have a situation where most in Vukovar, let's say, that constitutional provision is most likely to change. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, it's the same most of them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It means something that can be very easily changed, something that changes after each election does not give a lasting guarantee to that national minority or to that minority living in that area for its survival. We can make this decision today, tomorrow we'll make that decision and where we are. We see problems these days and so on with education because one minister writes one thing, then someone interprets it another, then we make a decision of the Constitutional Court and then that decision is withdrawn. And now here's the initiative around the MPs, and then little Hungarian will have, so then GONG suggests that Hungary has no parliamentary representative and that's how we're gonna ball. So the question of minorities, the issue of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia should be permanently established as established by constitutional law and how they have done so. And as for the numbers, well, that seems to me when I was here in Parliament the first or second day, a lot of people called for Austria. Austria has a censorship of 25% and everyone's well. It is that there is a state, two states probably in Europe that have a censorship high, but these are where the Russian minority is over 50%, the rest is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85157	Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85158	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, the issue of introducing Cyrillic as a parallel letter to some places means agreeing with that option that brutally attacked the Republic of Croatia and committed so many crimes to our country. Those who go over these facts are ordinary politicians who are calling for respect for human rights, i.e. the rights of national minorities. This isn't about respecting the right of some national minority, this is about a first-class political issue, I dare say provocation. Seeking to protect the rights of a national minority fully deny the right of the majority, i.e. in the most harsh way possible, the emotion is impacted not only by the Croatian people but also by the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia who were hit by the Serb national minority in the Homeland War. Remember, and you yourself said that the village of Sarvas was destroyed where Hungarians mostly live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85159	Replication response, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85160	... But it looks like there's one thing you need to talk about here all the time. [[Specially enabled.]] I know this is political attention where some kind of promotion should be carried out, etc. And I'm aware of that, but I think I've explained my opinion enough and I've answered your question before. It seems as far as you were listening, I don't know, I didn't mention the word Sarvas. I mentioned two settlements, one called Laslovo and is located in Osijek-Baranja County and is named after one of the Hungarian regions, the saints of the kings of St. Laslu, who has created it by accident and, not by accident, but also by acquiring the circumstances of Zagreb County. So this settlement has existed since then, and I mentioned it. And I mentioned the second village, the village of Koroč, which also has an eight hundred-year tradition and which is still populated with the majority Hungarian population. But the problem is, they're not local self-government units. They belong somewhere further and somewhere further the municipal statutes are being adopted and municipal regulations are being passed somewhere further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85161	Now we'll hear the replicas of Damir Cain's exposure. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, you have also pointed to the political context of this debate today, i.e. the collection of signatures for the referendum because of the amendment to the Constitutional Law on minority rights and said something that I agree with, which is that the spirit is a political spirit released from the bottle. Personally, I think that when we let the ghost out of the bottle, it's really hard to catch him and get him back in the bottle. What exactly am I thinking about? In discussions on the referendum, ideas about Tudjman's policy, that is, the politics of the first Croatian president at the time of the war, of aggression on Croatia, appeared. We also heard statements that his policy was naive, naive, that instead of peaceful reintegration in Vukovar it should have come militaryly down the road and that the decision on peaceful reintegration was the wrong policy. This is one of the dangerous spirits from the bottle because I will read you a part of President Tudjman's speech in Zagreb on 8 June '97. Before the Peace Train left in Vukovar. He then mentioned the arrival of the train in Split and said what I was asked by President Vukovar. Clearly, we could also go with the armed force in Vukovar at the time, but we decided not only because of the recommendation of the European and world powers and the international community, but because of our Croatian national interests, not to have more victims in the dead, wounded, in destruction, to prove to the world that we are for a democratic, peaceful solution, that we are not up to all Serbs leaving Croatia but to remain in Croatia who want to recognise Croatia as their own country. And in Vukovar, I'll continue that later. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85163	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85164	Not once I sat on the stairs when military residents were moving out of Pula and Rijeka. It's mostly about Serbs, Montenegrins, and we'd be able to prevent it. This isn't the time, but the message in my opinion of this referendum, gentlemen, is bad and that message scares. I know that today is more or less an academic debate and that after this debate no one will knock on anyone's door, let alone knock under the door. But what am I saying? This wanted to change first of all in Vukovar. We saw the elections behind us and wanted these issues among other things, because I recognize that political note to homogenize the political corpus for the euro elections. But soon they'll give it up. I also agree with Mrs. Kosor that even the late President Tudjman would certainly never allow the polymize with and around the Cyrillic. Well, neither would Mr. Sanader, but neither would Jadranka Kosor as the later president of the HDZ. This is possible today, and the next day when a change of power occurs I am convinced that quickly those who released this spirit from the bottle will give up those messages they sent to the Croatian public in 2014. Because otherwise, no one will recognize that team in Brussels, in Strasbourg or anywhere in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85165	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85166	Comrade Cain, it is certain that this referendum is being manipulated, perhaps even all those who were the idea makers of this referendum are not aware of it. You need to break some taboos. Let's say the first taboo is around the Cyrillic, because here, you said in your debate that Cyrillic and Croatian letters. It is also a Croatian letter, but Cyrillic was never a dominant Croatian letter. Cyrillic was used in Dubrovnik and Central Dalmatia for a time, and very few writers were expressed in Cyrillic as a letter and that is a fact. We can open up here if we need an hour of Cyrillic history. However, perhaps this referendum would not have occurred if it had not been for the boast I had told Mr Milanovic. Mr. Milanovic did not act stately, but stubbornly. He had to do everything he could to avoid getting under the supposed diplomatic path of talking to headquarters, talking to them, getting them to their side. ... He was supposed to talk for six and a half months, not six and a half hours. [[You can't hear it.]] You're just like your president. Six and a half hours is enough for you. How much did Vukovar defend himself? What are you talking about? Today, Vukovar is to be defended from poverty and all that. The other thing is, Mr. Tudjman only uses the polemics when he fits someone. Whoever amnested the criminals who said they sang Slobo send us salads, there'll be meat, we'll slaughter the Croats. They say they're free to walk today, based on amnesty. Why is there amnesty? Why in 20 years or 17 years, the HDZ authorities haven't sanctioned 18 years. It's not all her government's fault, it's this government's fault. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85167	Thank you very much, but don't say crime can't be amnesty and the Amnesty Act doesn't amnesty the criminals. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85168	Yeah, there's a lot of questions to answer, and there's no time. I only know one thing that a Cyrillic like that hasn't fired on Croatia. That's what criminals did. Cyrillic did not kill in Croatia. And that's what criminals did. And it didn't crash through Croatia's Cyrillic, but it was done simply by criminals. I personally believe that this Cyrillic, which is the same as the Serbian letter or vice versa, does not encourage the division of it simply encourages individuals. I agree that 600,000 signatures are one respectable number and I agree that there is no greater democracy than folk democracy. It's supposed to be an ideal, and I'm sure of it. But even in referendums, it cannot be questioned by those fundamental constitutional principles. Finally, we need to see how this referendum issue is formulated, which would not only question the use of Cyrillic in Vukovar, and this must not happen, but would question the expression of all minorities in the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that referendums can't happen in any way. We now have a referendum issue headed towards the Constitutional Court, and then this Constitutional Court, which has often made decisions against the Government, would say to the cynic, which is a note of bene and a political body of a couple of exellance, to decide on a question which the normal political majority will later implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85169	Ilija Filipovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, colleague Cain, you've said a lot incorrectly through your discussion but you've said something that burned my ears, which is that the referendum issue is one dangerous thing that will dissipate the minority of Croatia. I think quite the opposite, and then I'm going to ask you, I think it's a democratic initiative and it will be declared by the Constitutional Court. But I'm going to ask you, you've read an argument I believe with the decision we're discussing. There are 15 international legal acts to be mentioned, including the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Tell me one thing, and this applies to everyone here who listens to my question, any regulation of international law that contains and that is defined by the threshold of the level of rights, human rights or the level of rights of national minorities? That when you answer me, I'll make sure that I'm wrong, that it doesn't even have to go to the Constitutional Court because the Constitutional Court will ask who has a defined level of law. We don't have it in our legal system. And what is the content of the referendum issue is the direct obligation of domestic state legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85171	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85172	My deep belief is that the referendum must in no way suspend any fundamental constitutional principles. No referendum should be called into question by those fundamental postulates of the democracy of a country. No referendum can question postulate freedom or respect simply some diversity. When we talk about this referendum which I should or the referendum question, just to find out in the papers, it literally reads that the equal official use of language and letter served by members of national minorities is achieved in the field of units of local self-government, state administration and justice when members of a particular national minority make up at least half of the population of such a unit. I assure you, dear colleague, that simply if such a referendum were to pass, if the Constitutional Court were to stand behind this referendum issue, all international agreements on the basis of which I do not know, say, one Istria was integrated into the territorial Corps of the Croatian people. Whether it's about the Paris Treaty and peace of '47, whether it's about the London Memorandum, whether it's about... an agreement which is not only about territoriality or reparations but also about freedoms and rights of minorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85173	A colleague, Dujomir Marasovic, is not present, so he loses his right to replication. And colleague Josip Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85174	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Caine, I have to admit that I've been trying to find out for 2.5 years who Caine is, who's a colleague of Cain's, the one from 10 years ago, the one from three years ago, a colleague of Caine's since last year or today. Because here you gave us a lesson, again about morality, of course, about some sort of unbelief, etc. And then in one sentence you almost annulled all the efforts of Croatian citizens who signed the referendum because you said that the goal was to change the political opportunities in Vukovar and that this right-hand side was to blame, here you pointed to us. So see what you've been doing? You wanted to change the political opportunities in Istria last year, you ran for mayor. I was disgusted by your statements that you then made at the expense of a representative of the Italian national minority of your fellow parliamentary representative. You compared him to Mussolini. You called his politics ethical fascism. So has anyone ever used words like that on this side? To qualify us here today for various adjectives, they tell us what we are allowed to do, which we must not, and very simply bring this debate back to some mere political bickering as if there were no reasons why the signatures were collected. So tell us, now you have a chance, tell us what you thought a year and a half ago when you honored a fellow you sat around here for a time at a joint club, which was so primary, you didn't tell him because he told you you didn't know Italian. I mean, if it was, it was low. What your SDP colleagues think about, has anyone warned you about since you were also their candidate, and today we're listening to a whole other story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85175	Thank you. Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85176	I would like to ask if Mr. Boric, the one who asked Mrs. Kosor to put it on the list or who sat in her seat and drove Mrs. Kosor to the back row. Next time answer him. And I always said the same thing, and did you... It's me. I've always said the same thing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Do not throw it away.]] And now I'm going to tell you, my wife is also Italian, or her father was Italian, from a family that is a symbol of Italian's death in Istria. Three brothers were killed in the foybs, one sister. Why? Who then played God, why doesn't the family even know today where the grave is, and I claim that each victim deserves to be mourned, buried Christianly and simply rehabilitated. But well, it's been such a time, it's been a hard time, it's been hard to deal with back then and after that, but there's no hatred left, but there's clearly bitterness left. And that's why, if someone truly feels with minorities, then I do. I just said how many times, I didn't say how many times, but if you're interested, I'll say, I was sitting on the stairs when individuals were moving military residents out of Pula or from Rijeka. And when I talked about the Statute of the County of Istria, I wrote it, and I signed it, I defended it, but I think I lived it. And I've always mentioned that a robbery that wasn't mentioned anywhere in that statute, and Istria was never robbed from the outside, but robbed by the best sons, is not what Istra can be recognized for. I'm not Furia, what you said to Mussolini, but I sent him a message saying that, when in that way he's posemising with someone like I'm listening to Mussolini, it is. But I didn't call anyone that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85177	Thank you very much. Don't argue like that about colleagues who aren't even here and what has nothing to do with the debate we've been having. ... Please calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome you and the Vukovars and the Vukovars who are with us today, who listen to this debate. And I would like for them, but also for all those Vukovars and Vukovars that we mention so many times in the Assembly, to be really dignified, to go back to the subject that we need to talk about today and ultimately make decisions. So, today is exactly 7 months since the Croatian Parliament received, I will say the right number in this proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, which is the author, so 576 388 signatures were verified. Therefore, more than sufficient number of signatures under the provisions of the Constitution, i.e. the provisions of the Law on Referendum to initiate the procedure, shall decide on the opening of a referendum or the sending of a referendum issue to the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, we are this decision on what Parliament will take, what steps it will take, whether it will make its own decision to call a referendum or if the Parliament doubts whether it should be done in accordance with the Constitution, or whether it should be done in April at the latest, and we have actually launched the procedure in April. So it's also shown this time that in the policy of stalling, waiting, putting under the carpet or even worse ignoring can't do anyone any good. So, on the other hand, when it comes to the laws that we have passed, in particular about such important laws as the Constitutional Law on minority rights or the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court, I state those two laws because most of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament were required for these two laws. So, when these laws, such laws that were so crucial and in the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU, we do well to close the book, to move on, to build, not to stop building, to give up the policy of destruction. But, of course, in politics, it is very often not so. I especially think that he must be careful when we talk about human rights, certainly rights and minorities, but also when we talk about the rights of victims. When we talk about the rights of all those who are still unfortunately in Croatia looking for their loved ones regardless of their name, regardless of their nationality, so we should take care of their dignity today, and even when we call on Vukovar, then of course I think that everyone should talk to themselves about how many times he's been in Vukovar, whether it was just a day of memory, whether it was even a day of memory, how many people he knows, how much we talk about politicians, and how many people he's managed to do or managed to run something. So if nothing else, here, to be at funerals, back in '97, '98. when the first excavations began at the largest mass grave with more than 9 hundred bodies in the Vukovar cemetery. So, it would be fair to discuss it that way, and those who only declarely mention Vukovar to refrain from major politicizing. So, at our club, we think we should send the Constitutional Court a question about what it's like before us today. It would be good if we all read it once again, so this is not a referendum question about the status of Vukovar as a special pitet, and my personal opinion is that it was possible to collect signatures in this way, so that it could also be asked that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities be introduced and that provision in one sentence, because the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minority talks about the use of the language and the letter, but however we are now closer to the legal epilogue and the story of the referendum, because the Constitutional Court will have to make a decision within 30 days. Is this issue in line with the Constitution, or with the international regulations that are part of, since we have become a member of the EU, become part of our legal system or not? But the political epilogue, of course, is out of sight and the political epilogue will be waiting for a long time, and there will still be a struggle as there was, from that attempt by the government to leave bilingual plates and breaking plates and hammers, but above all, fierce, on different sides, political manipulations. I think the government should have done something completely different. So, it's that we have constitutional law on one side, like any other law that needs to be implemented, but life is something else, especially life in Vukovar. And I think that the government should have talked, excuse me, until we were exhausted, not with headquarters, but with representatives of all the associations of Croatian defenders and members of their families from Vukovar because on November 18th, on the Day of Remembrance when Vukovar was divided into Vukovar and not Vukovar Croatia, a part of the head of the association appeared in front of the hospital, there, so we were always moving in that column, a part of the leaders of the associations as well as various commanders appeared in front of the hospital and, unfortunately, were then classified in non-Vukovar Croatia. Therefore, the government should have called for all, certainly and representatives of the national minorities of the city council at the time, the mayor at the time and in an open dialogue with the question of how we will now, as a member of the EU, address certain issues in the implementation of certain laws, come up with a solution. I'm sure it went that way, so that the solution can be found. The Prime Minister finally went to Vukovar, but it was too late and I think he made a big strategic mistake by entering as Prime Minister at the back entrance to the city's headship, the Prime Minister must always enter the main entrance, regardless of what people were waiting for him there who were willing to play and protest, etc. A large number of people who signed the referendum, so more than 600 thousand were collected, but as we can see, the current 576 thousand 688, so an extremely respectable number of signatures to hold this referendum. A large number of people, so I think of all those who signed and who weren't politicians, because we saw there were politicians who signed, and then the other day they said we didn't need that referendum. So all those who signed, who were not politicians, thought and should respect it and should say that as soon as something important is both good and something patriotic for the country, for Croatia, of course for Vukovar and for the entire Croatian people. We must also take care of them because if the Constitutional Court decides that this issue is not in accordance with the Constitution, so that the referendum cannot be called, who will apologize to each of these people who signed in good faith thinking they are doing something important, doing something patriotic, doing something to protect the victims, protecting Croatian defenders, widows, families of the dead, imprisoned and missing defenders? Then who's going to go out there and say, "I'm sorry?" And then what's going to happen to this initiative of bitter people anyway? Because we saw around the boards and about the polemics around the plates and hammers and everything else that happened unfortunately in Vukovar, fathers, or parents who lost children. In front of them, every policy must bow down, but make sure that politics does not manipulate their feelings in one second. My colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing both... and the consistency and real patriotism of Croatian politics, but let's get back to the issue. The fact is that in the accession contract for Croatia's entry into the EU, we have committed ourselves, quote, continue to strengthen, it says in the accession contract, strengthen the protection of minorities including through the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. What constitutional law? The one we brought in all in 2002, both the left and right and then the opposition, was HDZ and the then majority, which is mostly the majority today. And no objections to the provisions of the Constitutional Law relating to the number of members of the national minority which is necessary to start applying the provisions on the application of the letter or language have been made. It was not said during the negotiations either. You know everyone shouldn't repeat it, especially it was hard to open chapter 23, and it was even harder to close it. One of the important issues in this chapter was the return of refugees, the application of the constitutional law on minority rights and the application of the constitutional law on co-operation with the UN tribunal, the trial for war crimes, regardless of the name, presence and nationality. So it's good to do a parallel here and with this constitutional law on international criminal court because we've made terribly difficult decisions by respecting that law. The generals ended up in The Hague, the generals were tried, thank God they were freed but some others who were leaving in '97 were convicted and one part of the Croatian people still considered it a great injustice. But we did it aware that it is necessary, what, to respect the laws that have been passed in Parliament. We, as a state, have committed ourselves to implementing this constitutional law, but as I said there was an objection that there was a request, we would in some way refer to ourselves in a way and in a possible change of constitutional law, get the opinion of the commission, see as far as possible and make decisions, and perhaps in that sense we would not even close Chapter 23. And in the end because it's very difficult when you have on the one hand the law that you need to implement, and on the other hand the real life and the real human feelings, and that's what this is about when we talk about Vukovar, but the subject of the referendum question is not Vukovar and it's not a werewolf victim and it's not Vukovar as a place of special piety. And since the company today is mentioned by many Tudjman and his legacy and his politics, I will read only part of his speech for the very end, so on the 8th of June 1997 on Vukovar. "I would remind you at first, the winner who cannot forgive these sowings of new divisions and future evils, and the Croatian people do not want it. And he said nicely to the Prime Minister Mateš, looking at this hiroschem panorama as a result of Europe, that it would be easier to overcome it, to build it in a material sense, but that it would be difficult to master the hiroshima in our consciousness in our memory. But here we are, in the name of God's laws and in the name of man's understanding, nothing remains but awe to overcome as soon as possible and as soon as we forget." So the club I represent will vote for this issue to be sent to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85179	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85180	My colleague, it's hard to stand up to anything that you said today, clearly separating the question of pitets, rights, from the application of the Constitutional Law. and you are well aware of this law was passed in 2002 and in all other years, especially in 2005, in 2006 in this one strong process of approximation and in some of the major steps that we took back then and in the seventh, eighth and ninth, you speak for yourself no vote was against, so that something could be changed. No one's raised their voice that there's something controversial about it. However, in our reports, I will repeat in the annual discussion that we discussed here, all clubs especially then praised the ruling ones, how we have in several cities just introduced other letters of national minorities and also Cyrillic letters, and it has not been disputed. And you're setting up a good parallel with the implementation of the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Hague Court, it was not disputed to bring it in. He was brought here together, when he was to be executed, but it's not just about being executed, but we need to be clear and loud here, we don't need to lie to these people and manipulate them because whoever's talking yesterday is one thing, today another is manipulating the feelings of these people, and that's the greatest sin. So when a certain political set comes along, you kind of see it that way, even if you didn't say it with a saying, but I'll say it, when does that become a problem? So let's look ourselves in the face, it becomes a problem when a certain coalition comes to power that isn't HDZ that doesn't manipulate these people. In the period 2000 to 2003, no general went to The Hague, and you had protests. Since 2004, when generals go to The Hague, you have no word against it. The same now, in 2007, the eighth, the ninth, you have a Cyrillic, no one complains, now they rebel.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85181	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Many of us have been here for the past twenty years, and so am I in politics, the difficult decisions we made right here in the Croatian Parliament. Today, the Abolition Act was already mentioned, so it wasn't easy, it wasn't easy to raise a hand for such a law because I remind you well you know maybe some non-legislators don't know that. It wasn't just the Law of Forgiveness, which was interrupted amongst others and procedures, so it was something that required a lot of debate from a legal point of view, but above all the wishes and will of President Tudjman who knew how to really look at the future much further and much wider than many who often called for his legacy and his work and actually do something quite the opposite. So his wish was. '97. Tudjman actually signed all the key documents on rights, human rights and minority rights on our European path, so in the Council of Europe first and so on. Co-operation with The Hague, the adoption of a constitutional law also on co-operation with the International Criminal Court. It was also a very, very difficult and complicated decision but we made it precisely because we saw Croatia as a member of the European Union one day and before that, NATO did so. However, the Croatian Parliament can always, at any time when it considers that any law, any law, these are laws that are passed from two-thirds but still, if someone thinks that some law is not good and that it should be amended then it should be asked as a question in the Parliament. And I remember just as well in the negotiations for entry into the European Union, no question of amending the Constitutional Law on minority rights has ever been problematicd. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85183	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85184	At the beginning of your debate, you detected some of the problems caused by Zoran Milanovic's authority, namely Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. You said he made two cardinals, one cardinal mistake. The president walked in the back door and you're right, the president never, not one president walks in the back door. And the other big mistake that was the records was made in Vukovar in the dark. So nothing is done in the dark unless there's something you want to do in the dark that you can't let the citizens see. What he wants to hide, what he's trying to trick himself into, is the fundamental mistake of this authority that was not prepared for dialogue, however stupid he was, however unsympathetic to them. You asked what if the Constitutional Court decides that the issue is against the constitution, who will apologize? Politicians should apologize to both the former government and this government. Why? Because we have such a referendum. That we have a referendum in which the first question is sent to the Constitutional Court and when the Constitutional Court says it is a legitimate question then they go to collect votes, signatures. That's when no one was fooled. This is how we cheat people, and it's one pressure, it's actually one political game without precedent. You make 600, 700 thousand people in good faith, you just stick to that, the possibility of a referendum, and after that, that's what your government did, and then you say no more about the Labour Law referendum, although it's not the same as holding a referendum, or now the Constitutional Court is going to say it's a constitutional question. 600 thousand, 700 thousand people have been pulled by politicians because they don't have the courage to change the laws we need to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85185	Jadranka Kosor responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85186	I'm going to start from this last one, the comparison with the Labour Act and the Law on Labour is not exactly like this case. Namely, if you remember, a sufficient number of signatures were collected and much more, but then the government withdrew the bill and then the Constitutional Court proved that there was no need for a referendum. It was like that. Yeah, that was because there were no more cases of slowness. And as for Mr Milanovic's procedures, I think it's educational and it's a notorious matter of policy functioning, especially the authorities, you always have to go to meet the problem. So it was known that if it started to set up bilingual panels, it was known, because the Prime Minister and the Government do not live on Mars but live in Croatia. It was known that this could potentially cause problems. If you knew that, then you should have started talking before. And I'm sure, I repeat, and that's what I was saying, and even at the time, here's when the initiative was launched to take away my honorary citizenship of Vukovar because of the views that are primarily legal, and I was thinking the same as I am now, but as 20 years ago, which is that Vukovar is an absolutely specific city and that when it comes to politics, it must be cautious. So no manipulation but in conversation with people. And I'm sure that there would be some solution that on the one hand would be able to comply with the provisions of the law and on the other hand respect that particularity of Vukovar is no one and no city has suffered as much and so many victims as Vukovar has, of course. Ovcara is only in the area of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85187	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85188	Dear colleague Kosor, it is good that you tried to point the debate towards the essence of the topic we are discussing. And I repeat that today we are in a strange situation with a strange debate. If you have followed all the arguments and all the replicas well, no one has but said that it is against Parliament's sending to the Constitutional Court to question the question. The difference is whether you're with or without an explanation. And now if there is a unique position that the Parliament has doubts about the issue and that it is going towards the Constitutional Court as prescribed by our laws and that we are discussing it. The debate went back to history until the seventh century. Are we doing well in Vukovar, Croatia and politics as a whole? Will we send a good message to the citizens of this country when it comes to their right to a civil referendum? You mentioned some politicians who signed this request for this referendum and then later told them that the counter-constitutional issue seemed to have been addressed. And they explained they didn't sign it in the suit. The journalist did not insist on whether he had signed it in his swimsuits, badeness, or cream to see the dress code that is worth signing. And in order to force the ruling on the final normative regulation on the referendum, we are going to collect signatures in the autumn, for example, by demanding that Article 56 finally be respected. The constitution, everyone has the right to earn money guaranteeing him a normal human life in a way that 55 000 people who do not receive salaries pay the state's salaries and then, as in alimony, he later collects from the employer. So let's see if such a referendum gets a passage of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85189	Thank you very much. Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85190	That's right. And today, we should actually just discuss whether or not we're going to send a question to the Constitutional Court, whether the Parliament is at the stand to exercise its right to Article 95. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court and whether the Assembly will do as it can, because only the Assembly according to Article 81. The Constitution rules a referendum, only the Parliament, cannot be called by the Government, for example, whether we are going to take a position on our own because, of course, the Constitution and the laws allow us to do so on our own and whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Because I repeat, the decision of the Constitutional Court of 13 January 2014 says exactly when the Constitutional Court recommends what we should do. If we are not sure that it is not in accordance with the Constitution and if we think that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, then we should ask the Constitutional Court. And that should be the topic that we'd be talking about today, or where we'd cross the spear, but like you said, there's no dilemma. Everyone thinks this should be addressed to the Constitutional Court, but some politicians, I don't name it because I don't know who else from the Assembly or the political world signed the referendum, one came out publicly, said as you said he wasn't in the suit but said the other day we didn't need a referendum. So I don't know who else has signed it, probably they are, it's their right, people have the right to interpret the laws and the Constitution as they wish, but we have the right to make a decision here and decide for ourselves, or rather to express our position whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not, but certainly to seek the Constitutional Court, as we should, as we have advocated together, should have done about the referendum in marriage. And I think it would be good and that there would be less passion in both the public and the political space if we had referred it to the Constitutional Court, but we did not exercise our right under the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85191	Zeljko Sabo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85192	Dear citizen Vukovar, I apologize for reporting for the replica and for replicating it to you, but I had to. You and I have had a little talk on the subject of Vukovar. I was speaking to you as an honorary citizen of the city of Vukovar to help me solve, and this case when it was ordered in 2009, so the presidents of the defense associations told me, by order of then Prime Minister Sanader, that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Petar Cobankovic, had to be introduced in 2009 to the town of Vukovar bilingualism in the statute that was adopted by the then HDZ coalition, SDSS and HSP, whether HSP Ante Starcevic or HSP, now I do not know. And it wasn't necessary for the Prime Minister to come to talk to anyone at all, that the kickings were accepted. The current prime minister can criticize him for anyone here, it's your right, but neither am I here to defend him, but from 6.5 hours to two hours four hours and 2.5 hours I've had a conversation that didn't result in a solution. You're talking about some laws that are passed without being seen in principle the real state of life and also in Vukovar, and laws were passed 10 years ago, and should be applied after 10 years. Was there then an article 8 or anything else that was said to anyone in Vukovar's mind that at that time, according to the list of the population in the town of Vukovar there were 32.89 Serb national minorities and that through this law there might possibly be some problems or prepare the Vukovars for the European standards that we have taken. I was lonely, but if it's today...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85193	Comrade Sabo's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85194	Just one sentence. If it's today that I'm no longer mayor, if it'll bring peace to my city, then I'm ready and I salute just to make peace and do it. Since this debate, everything that's here, the Vukovars have no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85195	Thank you very much. Replica response, colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85196	Comrade Sabo, the whole chronology you mentioned is also true in 2002. I said in my debate that at that time we all voted in favour of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in full, both Article 12 and Article 8 and all, but also in 2009, I also don't remember that after the City Council passed the statutes you mention, that there were any disputes about it, at least they didn't reach me. That was at the time of the former prime minister, right, but I was a member of the government. When I mentioned Prime Minister Milanovic was right, he came and talked long and it was fine, it was only wrong that he came too late. So I was talking about thinking that at the beginning when the first spark of possible problems broke out he was supposed to react immediately then, right away, not wait to start breaking the board because then it was actually too late. So on the first indication of possible problems in the implementation of the Constitutional Law, I think the Prime Minister should have discussed it. I'm not going to elaborate that any further. And as for the relationship with you while you were mayor, I think I've always tried as vice president and secretary of defense, but also the Prime Minister, to respect one principle when it comes to defenders, that each defender, particularly the defenders of Vukovar, should be equally respected. So, you, as defender of Vukovar and camper, deserve the same respect of every politician and then at a time when you were mayor of the city as any other defender regardless of our political differences and belonging to different political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85197	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When a sufficient number of signatures are collected in a request for a referendum, then the Parliament shall only have two options or start preparations for the implementation of the referendum or if it considers that the issue is not in accordance with the Constitution to address the Constitutional Court. This is exactly what the Constitutional Committee recommends, and this recommendation here sends you to the plenary session unanimously. That decision was made unanimously. At that meeting, he was a representative of the HDZ Club, Mr. Seks, and he raised his hand for such a proposal. Therefore, members of the Staff if you are worse and if you listen to what HDZ is saying here today, you must know that HDZ is talking here and the other is voting. The question offered in the referendum is absurd. The proposal, a request I absurdly, that members of some minority can exercise their rights when they become the majority in some area. It's about like saying children can only exercise their children's rights when they grow up or homosexuals can achieve their own, homosexual couples can only exercise their rights when they become heterosexual. Absurd of absurds. This is a constitutional and legal issue, but also a first-class political issue. The constitutional and legal aspects of this issue were spoken by the respected Peja Grbin, so I will not repeat it. But I'm going to say something about a political aspect. So this issue reveals the relationship between political elites and minority rights. Here in this particular case primarily Serbs, as well as others and all other minorities, are entitled to use their own language and letter. To enable this right, we are all bound by three important documents – the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Accession Treaty with the EU. The SDP is for all three documents to be irrevocably respected. I remember the last man who fought against the application of the Croatian Constitution in Vukovar and the Croatian law was Goran Hadzic. We can see he didn't get lonely. As far as the Accession Treaty is concerned, we have witnessed that when negotiations were held, it may have been time for someone to come up with that question to be resolved differently, to point it out during the negotiations before the contract was signed. But our then foreign minister didn't know what was negotiated or what was not negotiated, which chapters were closed, which were not closed. There is no non-conflict society, there is no such society. And it is a perfectly normal thing that there are a number of people in Croatia who are against the fact that minorities have any rights. There are people like that. We can't close our eyes before that. It's important that we don't allow them to do their will. No matter what criterion that minority group insisted on. We were all able to make sure that HDZ was against certain rights given to homosexual couples the other day. Why? I guess it's because they're a minority. And today the HDZ stands for depriving minority groups of certain rights, I guess the same thing because they are minorities. The lesson about what the Cyrillic presented here today is already a respected colleague of Pupovac, but from the replicas that he was given to conclude that the teaching failed. Let's do it again. What's Cyrillic? Cyrillic is one of two Croatian letters – Glagolitic and Cyrillic. Latina is a Latin letter, a letter from Latina that we accepted. Why was that letter created? It was designed to describe Slaven, among them and Croats. Why is it still a Croatian letter? Because the Cyrillic contains important works of Croatian literature and diplomacy. Some have tried to deny Cyrillic membership of Croatia, but there is no valid reason, because there is no valid argument that Croatian culture would deny cultural works, cultural monuments such as the 1180 Povaljska prala, Povaljska Charter, Poljički Statute, Dubrovnik Prayer, the Humačka Charter, and the entire Franciscan literature in Bosnia until the 19th century. What are the roots of this denial? There's at least two of them. First, the concept of 19th - century philology, which rested on the belief that the national framework must rest on exclusiveity, is defined as the state in which a nation, one language, and one letter lives. When we add that to one leader, we get the famous Nazi formula ein Stadt, ein Volk, ein fire. The second reason may be Freudian, fear of identifying yourself in another. Some are therefore willing to suppress and part of their own being just to avoid being identified with the other. That is why the Croatian Cyrillic has been identified exclusively with Serbian literacy for decades. There's been a delusion based on ignorance. The delusion reads, Serbs write exclusively with Cyrillic, Croats exclusively with Latin. The Cyrillic delusion is a Serbian letter. That's incorrect. I will propose to the Minister of Culture to organise an exhibition, an exhibition of Croatian Cyrillic monuments. To set her up in Count Eltz's castle and invite Mr. Josic to open it. He can help Karamarko. I would like to know if the members of the Post will then be able to crack the windows with valuable cultural treasures, monuments on the Croatian Cyrillic. Like they were smashing Cyrillic plates all over Vukovar. They were then supported by HDZ, but the members of the Staff are careful, Mr. Josic, beware of these HDZ support and remember the Split Riviera, then HDZ has been making noises, there is no state and there is no government that extradites its generals. As soon as they came to power, they handed over the innocent Markac and the innocent Gotovina. This will happen to you, too, Mr. Josic, if they come to the opportunity for HDZ to create a parliamentary majority together with minority parties, they will reject you as they have rejected these. If anyone asks to be extradited, they'll hand you over very slowly. Watch out who you're getting your support from. We've already heard something, and now we're going to break the Cyrillic plates. That's what Tomic used in one of his columns to make fun of in a really awesome way. And indeed, let's imagine we had a war, we had an aggression of Serbian forces, a Serb army on Croatian territory on Vukovar. The Americans had their 11th September. And imagine if someone in America thought to take a hammer and break home numbers because they were written in Arabic numbers. What would happen to him in America? Let's close your eyes for a moment and imagine the height of the walls of that facility to which you would remove it. Another strange thing is that the Cyrillic was created by Clement of Ohrid, a saint, a Christian saint to encourage his teachers of the other two saints, the Thessaloniki brothers of Cyril and Method. So, members of the HDZ Cyrillic are not the work of Satan as you may think, or his followers. The Cyrillic is the work of a saint. I think it will be necessary for me to launch the initiative to establish the Defense Department for Christian values and works of saints. Because you're attacking it, from you HDZ colleagues, because you're attacking it. You support that the work of the saints breaks with a hammer. I expect after what you learned when you received this lesson about how the Cyrillic was created and who made the Cyrillic, holy people, that you would launch a new referendum, which is a referendum with the initiative to St. Kliment Ohrid, St. Cyril and the Holy Method get kicked off the list of saints. Because I can be on the list of saints the people who invented Cyrillic. In addition, I expect the HDZ members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to go to OTC immediately and ask for a list of phone contacts between St. Cyril, St. Method and St. Climent Ohridski because they have as much connection with Slavko Linic as Milan Bandic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85199	Gordan Jandrokovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's how some of our colleagues are experiencing the city of Vukovar, the question of the victim from the city of Vukovar, mocking. This was an extract of cynicism and manipulation and it was a style that we learned here in the Croatian Assembly of the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament where he will mock, where he will laugh and laugh, where he does not hold on to anything that is at his heart and what is important to them. But it would be good if everyone heard what he was saying today, it would probably be funny to some, but to the vast majority of those who remember what was going on here in the '90s would probably be a pain. And you just keep it up, Mr. Stazic, we welcome it, show yourself what you are and what you are, manipulate, deceive that is what you know best. As far as the truth is concerned, what was on the Committee on the Constitution, you're trying to fool the public again. Unfortunately, there is no fellow Shexes here, but he told me, I spoke to him, when that information first appeared in public, he supported the decision to go to the Constitutional Court but it was distinctly and explicitly against the fact that the argument was part of the material that goes to the Constitutional Court. And he said that anyone who's in common with common sense understands that. That's what I heard when he spoke to a reporter. So, you can manipulate and deceive the public again, but read what Mr. Shakespeare was saying here in front of everyone, and then we'll see who's right, you or him. And as for the last thing, you're re-mixing the consequences and the cause. All this is happening because the SDP wanted the moment he broke European laws and contracts in the case of lex Perkovic to transfer responsibility to someone else, he chose the holy city of Vukovar, chose the victims, chose those who suffered the most and brought them into context with those who were aggression against Vukovar. And that's the bottom, bottom. It's a picture of your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85201	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85202	We'll start from the last one. All this is happening because HDZ is at one point when it was politically appropriate to him and when he was in coalition with the SDSS Union in the statute of the City of Vukovar bilingual inscriptions. The moment you think this isn't a political convention, you're rebelling against it. Once again, if you have a political convention, you will be the first to put bilingual inscriptions on the HDZ building, your branch in Vukovar, first, because it's yours, it's the constant of your behavior. As for my colleague Shakespeare's vote, I don't have to read, I was in that session, I saw Shakespeare's hand in the air. And the demand for a decision to be sent to a plenary session without reason is pardon me completely absurdly. So sloppy, we didn't learn how to do that. The fact remains that the HDZ, via Vladimir Seks, voted for what you're saying here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85203	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85204	Thank you very much. Well, here's the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, after what you've said, you don't know what a man would say. I'll be very brief, please multiply this debate by zero so that it gets some numerical value, because more than that is not really worth it. Multiply it by zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85205	You're weak in math when you multiply something by zero, that's zero. ... But she can't get anything. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] You say multiply to get something. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85206	I didn't hear what you were supposed to multiply it with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85207	With a zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85208	With a zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85209	That's what it's worth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85210	Well, that's your opinion that my debate is worth zero points, that's your opinion, and it's your right to have that opinion. About how much my discussions are worth, so the public testifies it, she'll judge it, eventually the journalists, the media who evaluate us, and as far as your personal concern is concerned, so I'm honored that you don't like my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85211	Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85212	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian right party Dr Ante Starčević has been standing by "The Association for the Defence of the Croatian Vukovar" since the first day, and our position has not changed. Local communities should have the right to co-decision in everything that affects their daily lives. No wonder the party in power thinks we should have absolute control over every human destiny in this country and so on about the lives of the Vukovars. There is also a Caliph over the Caliph, which is the Croatian people who will end this violent management of Vukovar in a democratic referendum. True God, it is not the best solution for someone who has never lived or has never been to Vukovar to decide on any aspect of the city’s life. However, it is more meaningful than sitting on a dress in St. Mark’s Square in Zagreb, satisfying her fantasies by living above Vukovar. The government is the perfect smoke screen, because it's still discussing everything just not the economy. The unemployment rate in Vukovar looks equally ugly on both Latin and Cyrillic, and your government and your recent mayor are responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85213	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85214	I'd very much like to answer your line, but from all that you mumbled reading the line, I didn't hear a word, I didn't understand. When you've got another time, when you're replicating, give it loudly from your head so that a man can answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85215	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85216	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague Stazic, you were talking about the Ciril brothers and the Method and the Cyrillic as a Croatian letter, one of the Croatian letters and the possible historical fact, I agree with you. But Satan, who wrote that letter in Vukovar, certainly does not deserve any value today. So the brothers were Cain and Abel, and they were no more, one killed another, and no more brothers, no more brothers. We could do the same in a picturesque way in Vukovar. If they were brothers, they shared all that until the war came, they didn't share anymore, no more brothers, the brothers parted, they wrote "There will be meat, we will slaughter Croats." That is what Satan’s letter echoed in a song in verse, in houses that were burned and destroyed. We're not against respecting the rights of national minorities, but we're in favour of respecting the victim, the victim who must have his pite. They proposed a democratically reasonable solution, supporting national intolerance, the impatience of this dark table in Vukovar could have been avoided only by dialogue, not violence. Violence causes violence and so on, and so it will be as long as it is holy and everlasting. Violence and Israel are responding, and so on. Sometimes I personally feel sorry for not knowing that a lot of my friends would probably die, sometimes I feel sorry that we didn't and freed the army.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85217	Thank you very much. But it is not Christian to respond to violence. Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85218	Now first lesson in Katekism. It wasn't Cain and Abel who killed each other, it was Cain who killed Abel. So you don't know anything about it either, you don't know anything about it. [[Applause]] You say you're not against respecting minority rights, but you're about minority rights being respected in such a way that they can't exercise their right. It's a really original way of protecting minority rights, patent it. The third thing, perhaps most important, you're talking about the victims in Vukovar, that we're all aware of, but the Cyrillic didn't kill those people, didn't kill the Cyrillic, you know, they killed them I won't tell the people, the inhumans, the inhumans killed them. The Cyrillic thing has absolutely nothing to do with it. And last thing, this reasonable solution of yours that you're proposing, so how come that reasonable solution didn't come to mind when you and the SDSS were in power? Then how come you didn't mind bilingual inscriptions? Then you did not call upon reason, and then you entered it into the Statute of the city of Vukovar. HDZ gentlemen, it's you who did it, it's not SDP, HDZ. And today you're singing other songs entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85219	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85220	You spoke of Cyrillic as a historical Croatian letter, I don't know 500 or 1000 years ago, but surely today's modern Croat of 500 or 1000 would not understand what he was saying, nor would he understand what he wrote. So today in the modern Croatian state we have a defined spelling, Croatian literary language and Latin letter in official use, so it's at a distance of several hundred years that you've been talking about. On the other hand, we have a Cyrillic letter and a defined spelling. I therefore think that this return at the time of King Tomislav or Croatian national kings or the Baška plate actually speaks in no way about the Croatian present, or you may wish to reintroduce the Cyrillic to Croatian primary and secondary schools as we had in the time of Yugoslavia and thank God that we finally got rid of it and that we no longer have it. I hope we don't have it anymore, and I hope you don't have a plan and our children's intention to bring the Cyrillic back to primary school, that's for me. And secondly, when it comes to records in Vukovar, it's no work like you said to a Czech saint, but it's the work of the red devils.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85221	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85222	I don't know what you're having trouble hearing or understanding. In what part of my speech did I advocate that a Cyrillic enters regular use as a Croatian letter in which part? But I stood up for it, and I will advocate that as a historical Croatian letter, it will be preserved and appreciated. The verb is no longer in use, so will we now break all the verbic monuments as you advocate to destroy the Cyrillic? Look, I understand the need to replicate, but you're giving it a little bit of logic in those replicas of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85223	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85224	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Stazic today almost all day long here you are in some way the end and you are the ideological communist framework of what is spoken of on this left. And none of you are finally going to say it, you can't tell what this is all about. It is Mr. Stazic because the Serb scum attacked this Croatia and that Croatian defenders and Croatian people rose up and freed this Croatia. And you've been saying all this time that the Croatian people and all the Croatian defenders who have been genocide are categorized and you're causing such reactions and ridicule from what should we defend ourselves from? From what colleague Stazic? From what? Your sub-smells, this way with your debate. So look at this spiral of yours, and I won't say stupidity because I'm going to be warned by the Vice President, I won't say badness or indiscretion towards Croats, Croatian people and Croatian defenders, so who's more underestimating them than you in these discussions and in this. It is a disgraceful fellow Stazić, disgraceful of you who smittenly fly for seven kunas, who smittenly frame your brothers, godfathers and others, embarrassingly. Don't do this, don't accuse one party with 220 thousand members, don't accuse the Croatian people. Turn to what this government has done in 2.5 years, nothing, has offended Croatia and the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85225	Thank you very much. I don't know how a Croat could speak against his people. Oh, please, colleagues. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85226	I don't know what in your despair of being able to argue without argument will not yet make up that I said it. Everything you've said but a simple fiction. You were talking about some kind of Chetnic, Yugoslav, cryptocommunist conspiracy I didn't say a word about. But watch when you mention Croatian defenders, you know what you will have to explain, you will have to explain the ruling of the Croatian court. This party of the 220 thousand members you present here, which you represent here, has robbed both those defenders and all those who are not defenders, put the money in their pocket and that's why it's ruled out, and that's what you explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85227	And it's interesting when, colleague Shuker, colleague Schuker, you go out with your colleague Sazic in the hallway, so make it clear because that's not the point of the agenda. Tink Milas, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85228	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I had to react to some sentences in your presentation, and I'm going to try to make my reaction into a slightly different vocabulary than the one you used. I don't know where you get the urge to re-insult hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens, these people sitting upstairs comparing them to Goran Hadzic, who is being tried for war crimes in The Hague. You used to call them barbarians. I don't know why that, which is why the constituency speaker is turning into a stand by comedians stage, I really don't think there's any place or time. And you and I know well that the Vukovars are absolutely not against the Serbian language, against the Cyrillic letter as the cultural heritage of the Serbian people. Whoever claims this is extremely malicious, he does not want well neither to the Croatian people, nor to the Croatian state, and at least to the Serbian national minority. Unfortunately, the Cyrillic letter became a symbol of evil, under that symbol seemed the worst crimes in the work, therefore in the defence of Vukovar. And it's just like that. And if that's what I'm asking you, remember when you finish the peaceful reintegration that the inscriptions were in Vukovar, whether they were Cyrillic or Latin and whether they were just a letter at the time, or if they were tasked to explain, under quotes of the "Serbian character of Vukovar". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85229	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85230	Well, I've got to start this answer with a lesson. Comedians aren't stand by, they're stand up, it's first. Secondly, you're saying that I'm insulting, that I'm insulting someone here. ... Because I said there's no unconflict society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have to think all things the same. I think this initiative is harmful and dangerous. And you, I'm asking you, when did you and the SDS introduce bilingual inscriptions where you were brave enough to go to Sanader and tell him what you're saying to me now? You didn't, you know why? Because you didn't have the manpower or the moral courage to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85231	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85232	Your message was crucial to my colleague, not killing Cyrillics, not Latins, not Egyptian letters, not Chinese letters, killing darkened minds to whom neither Cyrillic nor Latins in Vukovar meant anything. Unfortunately, listening to today's debates in this House and remembering the Karamarks... The caves when I heard what part of the MPs like Boris, Babic, Djakic said, I was really worried about what kind of Croatia we would have if this team ever came back to power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the problem is people and minds, they do the greatest evil as HDZ did to the Croatian people by robbing the state budget. And I will remind my colleague Stazic how much people who write a Cyrillic letter today in Vukovar love Croatia. You probably didn't know that last year the winner of the county competition in Vukovar-Srijem County in Croatian was a Cyrillic-written student, so she was the winner of the Croatian contest even though she writes with Cyrillic. Therefore, the future of Vukovar and all of Croatia will be when children in Vukovar, Croatian and Serbian will learn and write both with Cyrillic and Latin. The new school in Vukovar is the only solution that will remove these divisions that you today, by your discussions, of course, continue to encourage and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85233	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Davorim Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85234	Dear Madam Vice President, regardless of the freedom of expression, I think that my colleague Jovanovic hurt Rule 238's Rules of Procedure, saying that one party, HDZ, specifically robbed the state. Can I finish? I would suggest that a colleague stick to the personal responsibilities of anyone found to be guilty or committed a criminal offence, and as far as I know, there is no law enforcement yet. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] And it allows itself to speak to a man who, using the position of Minister of Science, Education and Sports, arranged himself a job one day when he ceases to be a minister illegally editing the internal structure of a medical institution in which he has the position of scientists. Shame, please warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85235	This isn't an injury anymore. I won't even warn him because I haven't warned anyone yet, nor did I warn you when you perform like this. ... [[Intruder: Warn him.]] I never warned him, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So as we have introduced practice, it is often debated or most often debated about what is not the point of the agenda. My colleague, Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85236	Well, yes, Madam Vice President, I will commit to what you last said. In fact, we should return to the topic we are discussing, which is what we should discuss, and this is the proposal for a referendum issue. And in the proposal for a referendum issue, it does not say that Cyrillic should be discussed. That's why I think we should make an effort to get back to the essence, to make this a serious debate, because as it moves away, I am getting more and more anxious about what will happen if the Constitutional Court first sends the Constitutional Court, if the Constitutional Court decides that the referendum cannot be called, or that it cannot be called, which we will then. So what about all the people who signed for the referendum in the best faith, what about the people who were gathering in the best faith? What kind of trust they will have, not only in politics but also in the institutions of the Croatian State, but also in the Constitutional Court, because I remind you that we have all received, Mr Ivkic, who is with us all the time and who I welcome, said in a conversation that he expects this time the assembly to show courage and fight for the sovereignty of the Croatian people and on this issue. So the expectations of MPs and MPs are enormous, and apparently that these expectations will not be met and my question is actually what will be this year in Vukovar on 18 November if the Constitutional Court refuses to call a referendum, what will be the decision then. Is it possible to make a decision, and it is easy to expect colleagues and colleagues on the basis of bile that is scattered here on all sides and hate, to actually prohibit every politician and every politician from entering Vukovar on 18 November and that is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85237	Thank you very much. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85238	The question is good, but I don't know how to answer it. What to tell people if the Constitutional Court takes a stand the issue is not in accordance with the Constitution. And those who launched this initiative acted against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What do you tell them? What do you tell them? The second time they think a little bit more before they sign something, see who offers them something to sign, and expect those who led them or seduced them to act against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to at least expect an apology from them. At least an apology if nothing else. But since they haven't had an apology since the inadmissible conviction for the robbery, I doubt they'll get an apology for this, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85239	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85240	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. In today's debate, we heard, and we will probably still hear a lot about human rights, about the rights of national minorities, about high standards and obligations taken over when entering the European Union. We have heard and heard a lot about incompetence, dignity, equality, different declarative phrases and different big words, but what are we actually discussing today? So the taste of this debate, I must repeat it once again, is whether we will decide as the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia to call a referendum or to refer this referendum question to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality. It is certainly inevitable, and it happens all the time, that each of us should present his worldly judgment and his own assessment. Some of us understand constitutional issues very little, some much more, but each of us has an opinion on it. It's rare that they're objective. I think it's a matter of objectivity on issues like this, and it's almost unnecessary. We are all more or less subjective in some way, and representatives of national minorities, of course they cheer for minority rights, that the censorship is 0.3% if possible and it is legitimate and it is ultimately their mandate here in the Croatian Parliament. The left and liberal sides of course have their own electoral body and, of course, the conservative options approach this issue more conservatively, and I think it's quite legitimate as well. I have to admit completely unobstructed on this subject since I signed that request myself for a referendum and I would sign it today and I would sign it tomorrow and I believe that it is a referendum issue, that it is constitutional and that it is not doubtful. So that's about my attitude about it and I can't get away from it because I'm part of that war, part of that time, and I have some personal emotional relationship and attitude towards Vukovar. As many have an emotional attitude towards some other places in Croatia or other values, so I have this issue either to this city or to the Homeland War issue or to the defence of Croatia or to the issue of national identity, nationality and similar topics. Before returning to the referendum issue itself a brief, very brief reference to how we have even come to today's debate. So we have a report on the census results that are confirmed that the share of Serbs in Vukovar exceeds 30%. At the request of a representative of the Serbian national minority, the government, through the Ministry of Administration, makes a decision and moves more or less to set up these panels during a period of time. The decision and the procedure led to a significant violation of interethnic relations in the town of Vukovar and the spontaneous organisation of Croats around the Vukovar defence headquarters. No referendum initiative came at the beginning, she came after exhausted a whole series of attempts to look for some compromise. So negotiations were requested, delays were requested due to non-compliance with the conditions prescribed by the constitutional law, the setting of the city's Vukovar area by the place of a special pitet. None of it was acceptable to the SDP government. They simply insisted at all costs on bilingual plates and at all costs and regardless of price. And why is that? Was it really because of the mere need for legitimacy, for law enforcement at all costs, regardless of people? Whether it was the implementation of its own policy, whether it was a question of repaying debts to coalition partners from the SDSS. I honestly don't know why, but I don't remember any of the political decisions this government has made and in which this government has endured as hard and firmly as it has insisted on this political decision. In defence of the SDP decision, the government was ready to mobilise police forces from all over the region to guard those panels. They were willing to defend them at any cost, arrest Croatian defenders, shut them down, punish them, conduct judicial proceedings against them. You're the one who caused it, you, SDP. You have challenged this referendum initiative, because you simply did not leave any room for dialogue, for compromise, for any agreement. No one with anyone in any mode of the issue. So either there's gonna be records or there's not gonna be anything. And then finally we come to this initiative which is, of course, one big circle of people and this government's behavior. I think even more of the government's behavior in those few months has actually provoked people so much that without greater difficulty, the Staff has gathered nearly 700,000 signatures, or 560 and some thousand as registered. Is that a constitutional question? I think so. So bilinguality is over 50%. We, as a HDSB club, would therefore support and will also support sending this issue to the Constitutional Court because we believe that this is a constitutional issue and that it will pass. Some have asked a question, and what will those who have represented it do when it does not pass? And what will those who are against it do, and who claim that it is unconstitutional, if it is passed in the Constitutional Court? So, in this situation where we have been firstly irresponsible to the ruling majority, obviously we will all have to wait to see what kind of decision this Constitutional Court will make, and it would be happier for both the majority and the opposition and the government that other ways have been found to solve this issue in various ways safely better and better quality and without actually raising the tensions that have been raised. They keep mentioning high moral standards, so high ethical standards, verticals. I don't think there's any need for that. We can and can so declare it, but I think we should actually be pragmatic, look at the interests of both Croats and Serbs and actually look for all Croatian citizens and try and find answers to questions, and not actually get involved in relationships. Because whatever the Constitutional Court's answer is, it's either positive or negative after we send it, we don't get an answer to this situation. So, and if there's a referendum, if there's a referendum, we don't solve this situation, we don't finish it. We further make it more difficult for everyone. If in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, the provision on the need for a 50% minority representation for the implementation of bilingualism is incorporated or the international agreements relating to the Italian minority in Istria will be annulled, of course. Therefore, international contracts and internationally recognised obligations are above national legislation and, of course, no one is at all intensifier or intention to open or manipulate or raise tensions around it. The question of bilingual inscriptions, for example, in Daruvar, where the Czech minority or di, is also a minority of Hungary, where they are represented in percentages of 15, 20, 25%, and where bilingual panels are introduced today and where the provisions of bilingualism are applied because there is an agreement in the local community, although it is not met with the 30% census of the Constitutional Law. Of course, even when that census is moved to 50% it will not apply to them, nor will it apply and actually life goes on. So, the problem is Vukovar, of course. Vukovar is more or less a city of frustration, Vukovar is a city of frustration for both Croatians and Serbs. The bloodiest battle in the Homeland War was fought in Vukovar. In that battle we were in November '91. We lost, we were defeated by JNA and with the support of most local Serbs who actively acted in territorial defense. After that was followed by exodus, slaughter, mass liquidation, Ovčara, years of life in persecution and that is the Croatian frustration of Vukovar. Of course, there's also the Serbian frustration of Vukovar. The Serbs tried on the then occupied Vukovar, established power, tried to establish life. Many later abolized politicians, police officers, soldiers, public administration workers and directors participated in the government today. But after the flash and storm and after the fall of the SAO landscape simply powerless to defend that space they accepted peaceful reintegration, the Erdutic Agreement and in fact lost in peace what they objectively received in the war. And that's the Serbian frustration in Vukovar. Relations have been established that were as acceptable to both sides and were in themselves meant to represent a transitional period in our 21st century, in which we will be better, different, in which our children will come who will live better and differently than we have lived at the end of that 20th century. Unfortunately, there was a full integration of space, but there was no integration of people. Instead of integration, we got a segregation in Vukovar. Vukovar is a segregated city where, to a large extent or to a large extent, Croats and Serbs live separately, children live apart from small legs, go to kindergartens, schools, learn different history, speak different language, go to different places, each employs their own and move to different places at different times. To be honest, people who fought on different sides cannot be expected to love and love today and to be some great friends. But their children shouldn't be their children who are now the hostages of history it shouldn't be. And in some ways the hostages of frustration and the trouble their parents went through, it's actually the worst and most devastating thing that happens in that space in my humble opinion today. The tensions didn't go through, the tensions kind of piled up, and then something came up when it broke. In this case it was a record, a record, but somewhere it had to be. If it wasn't for a record, it would have broken on something else. The impact on the plates in some way was the cry for help of these people. It was an invitation for both the government and all of us together, but we were all deaf together and we didn't understand it, we didn't try to answer that in any way. It's my duty to say what I think about it. We are invited to integrate Vukovar, we are invited to abolish the segregation between Serbs and Croats in Vukovar. You're invited, we're all together to try to do something to make those kids in Vukovar start growing up together. And there must be ways to start hanging out, to get to know each other, not grow apart so they don't know each other at all, to grow up as strangers in the same space they live in today. To start sitting together in the classrooms and train together in the same sports clubs, going out to the same cafes. The Croatian Parliament is a place where in my opinion a clear message should actually be issued that Croatian society is not a segregation society and that Vukovar should not be a town of segregation and division. The left government had more maneuvering space to open the process. She didn't use it, she didn't recognize it, and she didn't use the potential she had in her early years. Is that more possible today in this time of government? I don't know, but I don't think you should give it up. I'm not going back to Article 8. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities but it is clear that it has been violated because the predecessors also spoke of it. I could also mention an example of a reduction in the number of representatives from the diaspora when the reduced right of representatives from the Croatian diaspora was obtained and their number was reduced through constitutional changes. Of course, this was about a typical inconsistency and inconsistency always comes back. And in the end, so you don't turn out to be a critic here are a few suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85241	My friend, your time is slowly running out, so bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85242	So, very briefly. So, I propose that a moratorium be declared based on Article 8, to set up bilingual panels, to open the dialogue between the Serbian and Croatian communities in Vukovar on the abolition of segregation and integration of people, to open dialogue between both religious communities on the steps that can be taken and that the government open dialogue with the motions of this referendum, simply if these steps are launched to withdraw the referendum initiative. That would be some win-win situation as much for both. Otherwise, in the memory column, we'll walk apart again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85243	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85244	My colleague Đurović, here I all support your entire speech that you started. We're all more or less subjective. We did, and I signed it, and I'd do it again. And I'd do it most for the reason it's been apparent since that morning when the plates were set that someone prepared a scenario worthy of Spielberg, which is now a bit of a twist in this House. Someone deliberately, knowing what was going to happen, put those records in order to deepen both these discussions and those conflicts that you were talking about. We cannot think about Vukovar in a way that children of Serbian nationality and Croatian nationality learn two different history in two different languages. Those who were born in '91. and '92. Now people are already 24 years old. How can we count on their co-existence when both are raised in two different ways? No one here in this House on this side, even though we are called all the time is not against minorities, it is not against the Cyrillic, but it is against this scenario imposed by this Croatian government, it is definitely. And all of this you said and why this part of the script is exactly this memo that was sent to the Croatian Parliament on 18.09 is on the seal that was received which both HDSSB and HDZ and HSP and HGS were signed and that was exactly what you were looking for in the proposal for your conclusions. Why isn't that on the agenda yet? But today we are discussing that the Constitutional Court should say so many months after the signing and delivery of the signature whether the issue is constitutional or not. That's the problem, and that's this government's script. It seems to someone in this government that we are more comfortable with these discussions than with those discussions that mean life and that member of the Serb minority in Vukovar and the Croatian minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85245	Thank you, colleague Klaric. Time's up. Replication response, co-worker Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85246	Yeah, I think this actually set-up of events more or less rests on those statements that the referendum won't be. But that's not the answer to the problem that exists among the people in Vukovar. It doesn't solve anything. So they go to the referendum there won't be a point. We have enough police and we will stop you, we will spend ours at any cost, and you as God gives you. A responsible government can't behave like that. There are enough of us and we have plenty of time, enough days to be able and we can discuss the problems not only of Vukovar but also of general problems wherever there is, where there are other problems in this part. So there's enough of us, there's time, and it can't be solved by force, and especially because it won't be solved, in any way, however it ends with this referendum, it doesn't end well, it ends badly for both of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85247	Thank you. Next replica Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Djurovic, you have well established that we have participated in this expensive signature and I as president of the Croatian Military invalids Association, and I have personally signed and spent several days collecting signatures, whether this issue is referendum or not. This is more a matter of some other relationships, which is misunderstandings, boastfulness, it's the darkness under which it was acting, it's the unwillingness to discuss in this House through democratic dialogue, regardless of what one third of the MPs suggested that the conclusions should look like, we haven't had a chance to discuss them. And even the former mayor of Vukovar has taken the agenda off the War Veterans Committee. So much for democracy, democracy, debate, tolerance, etc. He has shown by his act how democratic he is. If we hadn't been able to discuss this issue one-third of the elected MPs on the board. He took off his agenda and said there was nothing on the War Veterans Committee to be. Well, I mean, it's a precedent for the democracy of one of the mayors of Vukovar and a member of the SDP presidency. The party has well trained its staff, how to resolve quickly what absolutely cannot be discussed. I also believe that the government's opinion that came on the proposal to postpone or put a moratorium on the application of the Cyrillic inscription law in Vukovar was a very clear reason for us to sit in this House all together, arrange and delay for the victim, because of the victims, because of all those wounds that are still open. So you can build a community, not like this... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85249	Thank you. Answer, colleague Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85250	It is quite clear that it would be useful and good if this debate were open, and it would still be more useful if the conclusions that would come from this debate were indeed the result of this debate and what the representatives and not the presidents of their parties are thinking, regardless of which party it is concerned. And if, as a Parliament, we would once really give and take positions according to how the debate shows and how, therefore, how we all work out a solution together, that this solution is actually embedded in decisions made by the Croatian Parliament, especially when it comes to issues of the majority and minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85251	Thank you, too. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85252	Dear counterpart Djurovic, I agree with you that the referendum will not solve anything regardless of whether it was held or not, regardless of what the Constitutional Court decided. Before my colleague Kosor asked what it would look like at the 11th month in Vukovar, you gave one answer at the end of your debate, by the way. However, I disagree with you when you claim that this government insists on law enforcement at all costs, insists on law enforcement at all costs. The law is either implemented or not implemented. That's the one with Tito. "Don't stick to the law like a drunk float.", the second is dialogue, and the second is compliance with the law. No, one sentence was, you didn't leave a dialogue for law enforcement. I don't think it's necessary to set up a dialogue for law enforcement, but to start talking. I think the two sides are on the cabin and neither one of them gives in, because it's not only Zoran Milanovic's fault. Hard attitudes, hard professions that certainly do not contribute to solving the problem in Vukovar came from the defence headquarters of the entirely guilty Croatian Vukovar, do you have any doubt that Vukovar is not Croatian, should Zagreb be said to be Croatian? Vukovar is Croatian and will remain Croatian, and should not be said to be, that is to encourage suspicion that Vukovar is not Croatian, Vukovar is Croatian and will remain Croatian and has always been. You don't need that, that adjective. Therefore, this government's dialogue was not ready for dialogue, and this government is being stubborn. It should, I repeat, Milanovic should be a statesman rather than an intrinsic one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85253	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85254	In implementing that part of the law as they read it, I really don't know who can read Article 8. The constitutional law and to say that it has nothing to do with this resistance that emerged by setting up those panels, that it has nothing to do with Article 8. Constitutional law, or it might seem to me. So they read the law in that part as they read it in the quota, and they didn't read it in that part that its implementation must contribute to tolerance and tolerance between the minority and the majority. So, it must be in favor of this tolerance, its maintenance and growth, but as an article goes, I am not quoting it now. And when it comes to columns, I, of course, found myself, as almost the entire Croatian people found themselves in a column last 18.11. If they'd found each other and we don't have anything to run from, that's how it happened. So people felt played out by the state summit and didn't want to stand together with that state summit. And they can be as angry as they want, so it happened, and none of those tens of thousands of people, people aren't sheep no one could ever push them anywhere if they didn't feel like they were doing something right. And who says, on the other hand, that the state top must lead the procession. It's been that way in the protocol for years, so the state's top can go to the beginning. Not at the head of defenders, widows, victims, honorary troops and the like, they give their opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85255	Thank you. Next line of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85256	Thank you. A fellow Djurovic, in his debate, presented two thesiss that seem quite like this, seem to me to be verbal manipulations. Namely, you said at one point that after the census the government had set up these tables because the SDSS forced it to do so, etc. We've been listening all day to some other theory like HDZ changed in 2009 because the SDSS forced them to. I feel this pretty strong at one point, I think we're such a strong party that we're influencing in 2009 and blackmailing HDZ and without us we wouldn't do it and now we're forcing the government to respect the law. Maybe the government wouldn't have respected the law if we hadn't forced her to. Well, for God's sakes, do we here have to pollomise whether the law is respected, whether it should be respected or not? if assumptions are created on that census that the constitutional law is respected, please respect or change, so there is no third variant but we must respect it because the opposite is the state of anarchy. And at one point, we looked at some things that looked like it. And secondly, you're saying here to minorities others don't worry you're these 50% don't apply to you, it's only to Serbs and Cyrillic, you'll still have local statutes of local self-government guaranteed right. Well, my God, why do you have such an affair with these people? Do you think they're not aware of the danger behind this referendum? So you don't have to raise them with such false promises that 50% of the census doesn't apply to them. Well, it applies to everything because it's going to be some kind of limit below which it can't go, so we're so written, I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85257	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85258	So when it comes to this, I will give you an example of Daruvar and the Czech minority in Daruvar and bilingual panels where the Czech minority has 23% on the last census, so less than 30%. Second, when it comes to amending the law, the Constitution or the Constitutional Law, I cited the example of Article 55(1). The Constitution, where the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also states that everyone has the right to work and pay for this work worthy of living normally, so this article does not apply. So let's all call together let the Croatian Constitution apply from this moment on and let the minimum wage in the Republic be consistent with the consumer basket, but it can't. So if the state budget can't do that then we've been knowingly breaking all together with the government of the Republic of Croatia at the head of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for years. And of course when it comes to the Vukovar issue that you should have also shown a certain tendency to talk and deal, you should have, not called blindly to the law. You do not have the right to appeal blindly to the law at least especially as an article 8 is violated, because the law has always gone in the direction that the consent of the majority and minority people is taking place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85259	Thank you. Next replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85260	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I greatly appreciate what you said earlier as a politician and a representative that you signed for the referendum and that you are not ashamed of it, so that today you will do the same and show that you are consistent with some people who have signed it, and then they said the other day that it is not actually valid that we do not need such a referendum. And you said on behalf of your club that you believe this is a referendum issue in accordance with the Constitution and that there are no problems in its implementation. So I'm telling you on behalf of the club, that the club is suggesting a conclusion. In fact, we have the conclusion of the Constitution Committee that it believes, among other things, that the Parliament should accept the view that this issue is not in line with the Constitution and the accession treaty which is an international contract and becomes part of the internal law and that it is then voted on. So it's quite possible that you suggest each other's conclusion. As regards the application of other minorities, I agree with this, so I would not owe what my colleague Horvat said, and if this were to be incorporated into the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities on the Rights of National Minorities on the basis of the referendum, it would be all because the referendum issue does not treat the Cyrillic or the Serbian National Minority, but all national minorities and the implementation of the provisions on the use of a letter or language and that is the case. As far as the moratorium you mentioned might also be a club, as a representative, but you must propose amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and the inclusion of a provision on the implementation of the possibility of using a letter and language does not apply to the city of Vukovar. So that could be the legitimate initiative we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85261	The answer of my colleague Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85262	Thank you. So you know how many MPs we have and how much would be the political power of our initiative to change the Constitution or constitutional law, so it was inconclusive even though we showed a certain political power when in a certain way we succeeded at the final part of the constitutional changes to prevent which was, which was not in favour of Croatian interests. When I said about the referendum issue, I said I thought, so I spoke for myself, what I think about the referendum question. And when I said about referring to the constitutionality assessment that we are in agreement with the assessment of the constitutionality, but we are not in agreement with that valuable court that is listed in the accompanying material. And we think that there's actually a board that's actually out of range.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85263	Thank you. And the last replica of Zeljko Sabo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85264	Thank you, Vice President. I've called before, though. My colleague Đurović, it was nice to listen to you in a certain context when it comes to the city of Vukovar. But obviously again, I would like to point out that all this debate will in principle focus solely on the failures, on the actions of this government or on someone in this government. But I just want to tell you that as mayor I did in 2009 and in the '10s and recognized because I live in the city of Vukovar and wanted to invest through the efforts of the community of conversations precisely for young generations to change our lives in Vukovar and to live life the way we lived in youth in the community before that war. However, to draw any conclusions. Given our laws, I was prevented and although the deal was close. And then, politically, I was simply dejected for such decisions, for a decision that was made in '98 to kindergarten under the national programme for the Serbian National Minority in Vukovar that separated the children. Such a decision requires a decision from the city council that I don't know if it'll ever come to. And there's still a '98 bilingual board on that kindergarten. years on the Latin and Cyrillic. And when I wanted to understand that these children of ours, regardless of our past, are burdened with maybe everything we have inside of us to make that step. Can't be done It's not possible. [[Intruder: Thank you, it's time.]] It's the same with primary school education. You can't do that, but I'd love to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85265	Reply to the replica of my colleague Đurović Finish it. [[I'm sorry, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85266	I wish everyone in these discussions could at least remember for tomorrow to be of some use to Vukovar of all this which... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85267	Comrade Sabo, please. A colleague Đurović, the answer. But before you start, I'd like to ask my colleagues on my right to be tolerant of their listeners. I wouldn't mind if you had something urgent to come out and discuss and go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85268	Here, thank you. '98. For years at a time of peaceful integration, it may have been logical, therefore, that's how it works at one stage. In fact, though, it was time to determine when the time had come for the very integration of humans to begin. And unfortunately, we stopped at that process and that step, the next step never happened again. And then, in fact, where we're stuck, we're stuck in that everyone defends their positions and is not ready to do, you're right there, nobody's ready to take either side of it. And we stand in pain, but children war, children grow up, children go away and tensions remain. You've seen it yourself and noticed, tensions remain. They can be made whoever they want and however they want, children, people, if they grow apart from each other, if their parents separate them from each other, they don't grow up in a good atmosphere because growing up in such an atmosphere is about those kids who grew up and today they reflect people again and we're always spinning around in this closed circle. And instead of trying to speak plainly, of course, not everyone will defend their positions and time slowly passes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85269	Thank you. On behalf of Croatian People's Party Representative Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85270	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Decision on the basis of a request for the opening of the State referendum of the Civil Initiative "Stacer for the Defence of the Croatian Vukovar" proposed by the Committee for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, to the Croatian Parliament, to declare the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the issue of the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff. The Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club accepts the proposal and announces it will vote in favour of this Decision. We also want to remind ourselves of several important facts. For a long time, the Croatian People's Party has reminded that there is a tie to an important open issue to the constitutionalised system of the Republic of Croatia, which we usually call the framework of holding a referendum as a direct form of democratic expression of the will of citizens. It has long been clear that the referendum as a very important institution of citizens' statements is not clear or consistently governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and not by the Law of Referendum. In this sense, we joined the initiative in the Croatian Parliament last year to address more clearly, specifically, the new Law on referendums or amendments and additions to the existing question of what and how the state referendum can be implemented, and then the other referendums, finally so that this issue can be resolved in our legislation and there is no doubt about the situations in which we have now taken place. In fact, the practice is, the tradition of democratic states to define those issues that citizens cannot say directly in the referendum precisely because democratic standards define in which minority situations must be institutionally protected from the majority. A whole series of examples of such a type and the issue of the achievement of human and minority rights certainly fall to the front row of such issues. Because different historical, economic, political circumstances without major problems can tempt most of us to suspend the acquired rights of minorities by referendum decisions of the constitutional force or even worse than that, by abolishing the right to move further, which is therefore consistent segregation or more serious forms of violation of the rights of citizens of their own. There is no doubt that there are a whole set of questions that you could ask in front of citizens right now and get most of them, but these can be extremely dangerous issues. ... He's got some dangerous questions, he's got a lot of questions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's say that you are in favour of abolishing parliamentary democracy in the Republic of Croatia. Whoever sits in this House must be the first to be very concerned about the possibility that such a guy's questions might come up in the first place, let alone ask because there's no other way. As unhappy as we are, as disappointed as we are with the functioning of the institutions, the functioning of the system, there is no other way to preserve society from autocracy and dictatorship than through the institutions of parliamentary democracy. We can laugh at political institutions in a joke, talk about the efficiency of the political system, about the cynicism, about the irony of the political system. We can speak against political parties, partytocracies, lack of democracy within the political system, within the institutions of a political system, including political parties because they are a constitutional category, but we cannot and must not take the right to ask ourselves a question that would lead to a questionnaire and thus disabling the political system. So there are a number of issues, and we Liberal Democrats are particularly sensitive to what cannot be the subject of a referendum and must not be subject to a referendum because there is a huge space for manipulation of human feelings, political attitudes, preferences, dissatisfaction, social status that can lead to the most radical forces that can destroy society. We need to be aware of that. The Republic of Croatia is a legal state, modern, democratic. She must have built in her constitutional principles those values for which many have given life. She has to stick to her obligations, she has to stick to the principle. If respect for human rights, minority rights are part of the standards to which the Republic of Croatia has committed not only to bilateral international agreements, not only to international documents such as the European Charter of which it became a member in '97. As well as accession negotiations, the documents of accession negotiations, it must maintain its credibility. But why are we even talking about it? Croats must never feel threatened by anyone in their country again. And it is time for political elites to raise awareness to the majority people that there is no fear and there must be no fear and with fear as a category should not be manipulated. The greatest achievements in the construction of Croatia's modern nation were achieved through joint work by ethnic Croats and members of other ethnic communities at the time when they reached consensus on the political and cultural ideas of the Croatian nation. It's a question of a movement we know as Illyrian. In this sense, the great Croats who allowed Ban Mažuranić to implement reforms created by the civil state, which allowed Croatian state law to be preserved, formulate through the idea of a free nation that wants its own state were also Ljudevit Gaj and August Šeno and Dimitrije Demetri and Ignac Fuchs, alias Vatroslav Lisinski and Ferdinand Wiesner i.e. Ferdo Livadić and Franjo Kuhač respectively, Franz Koch and many others. Among them, some who wrote other letters spoke other languages. There must be no fear and there must be no fear of minorities. Only when the majority people, the ethnic majority people, embrace their minorities with whom they live and open without fear, create a new space for the affirmation of all. Minors would say by their nature always have to work a lot harder to achieve equality. There's no doubt about that. They always invest much more, they always show up much more than others and, of course, the results can and must always be above average. If we agree to the idea that the censorship rises to 50% we would permanently compromise the acquired minority rights of a whole series of national communities in the Republic of Croatia from whose consumption so far the Republic of Croatia has had absolutely no harm, no problems. So we had bilingual and two-letter markings before this situation in Vukovar, and in the midst where members of the Serb national minority had a very high number and it didn't bother anyone. So it is not Vukovar's first settlement in the Republic of Croatia where bilingual inscriptions, records, markings were introduced. Even in Vukovar alone. Here's a fellow Sabo mentioned since 1998 neatly exist, since the peaceful reintegration orderly there are bilingual panels. But here it is equally not just about the environments in which it has the law, i.e. by constitutional law, defined or prescribed by a number of members of the national minority, the Serbian national minority such as Trpinja, Negoslavci, Vojnic, Vrgin Bridge, Plaški, Udbina, Korenica, Gračac. This is about the finals in which the Czechs are represented by 47%. This is also about Punovci where the Slovaks count 36.94%. This is about the Prince's Vineyards in which the Hungarian population is 38% and of course all of Istria where only in Brtonigli we have 30% and Grožnjan 39% of Italians, and everything else without any problems, without the frustrations of history, without the loads or photos or fascism or dramas of the Second and First World War, without problems and bilingualism in Istria. But I must warn you as soon as you leave the building of the Croatian Parliament you meet both bilingualism and bilingualism at the Upper City in Zagreb. Almost all the upper city streets have bilingual and bilingual tables. I can't believe you didn't notice that in German and gout. Because there is a time in which the Upper City was mostly German when we talk about whose members the nations lived where. The Germans in Croatian history were certainly called and certainly experienced by giants like Stjepan Radic, experienced as occupiers, as hegemons. They were named the ugliest names and were especially in World War II on the black side of history. Does it occur to anyone to take a hammer into their hands and alienate bilingual tablets in German and gothica in the Upper City of Zagreb? Who can be bothered by that? So is the national wound not open, and when it comes to this after 5 hundred years of living with the Habsburgs that the national, especially romantic history, has declared the worst evil for the Croatian people. But here's the fact that even this worst evil has left many good behind and that's not to be ashamed of. There is no need for majority people to reduce the acquired rights of minority, but to enjoy the fullness of national self-loathing, co-existence with other peoples in the European Union, the fact that we are finally in the same community of people in which many Croats do not live in the Republic of Croatia. And this referendum initiative, unfortunately, has not contributed to international understanding or restoration, nor to the restoration of trust, nor to the restoration of the city, but to a better life in Vukovar. And don't the Vulcans exactly expect us to make laws, decisions and acts that will make their lives better, more perspective and make their children happier than we are. Well, isn't that our debt? The HNS supports the idea and the proposal for a decision to declare this issue to the Constitutional Court, because at least as far as we are concerned, there is no doubt that this issue would violate the constitutional principles defined by the whole of Chapter III. Croatian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85271	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Josip Djakic answered first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Beus, you said this referendum had no meaning or need. You probably thought that way about a referendum that happened in '91. A year. There would be no such thing as Croatia. And then we decided against the constitution of Yugoslavia or the Republic of Croatia and made decisions that are historic and which are significant for the Croatian people. Every referendum and people, as I said to the government at first, comes from the people, stays in the people, and the people will decide no matter how this all ends. You must be aware that both the Germans and the Czechs and the Russians and the Hungarians and the Serbs have given this referendum. In the lists with your minister, you can see who these people are, these wonderful people who have reason and who felt what evil came from Cyrillic orders that were written orders about shelling, rocketing, attack, murder, execution and others. All of this in the Cyrillic letter is written. And everyone has to be aware of that. Commandments from Belgrade came to Cyrillic clearly defined by the units by which they were route and how, and later on the Cyrillic were issued charges for all those honorable people who were imprisoned, tortured, raped and killed and still stand still in the Jugoslavia Penal Court today. And you have to be aware of that all together. You must be aware that the people decide everything and your rule is probably short - lived.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85273	Thank you, time. Answer, colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85274	Dear colleague Djakic, I have just been shocked by these incredible needs of yours to measure the patriotism of the other. Why do you have the right to instruct me on what I think and how did I decide on a referendum on the secession of the Republic of Croatia from the SFRY? What makes you so right? Our joint decision based on the fact that Croatia was a federal unit and that it has the right, our joint decision by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia was actually a step into Croatian independence. You'll count and measure my patriotism? Well, you have no right to do that. And whenever you do, you're actually talking about yourself. As for the official letter, my dear colleague Djakic, did you forget that the official letter of the Yugoslav People's Army that leveled Vukovar with the land of Latin? Shall we maybe ban that letter too? Which one are we going to write, Chinese or some third? Don't sell to God, JNA's official language was so-called. The Serbian-Croatian but official letter JNA was Latin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85275	Next replica, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85276	My friend Beus said there's a huge space for manipulation and we need to be aware of that. Don't you think this government is responsible for the fact that there's been a signing at all, this referendum and that referendum before? Each responsible government should listen to any of its people and adapt to it and work on that path to make the policy it leads in this direction but not in this way. Not under cover of darkness, not raping your ideas and imposing some of your models. You mentioned Ban Mažuranić, you mentioned Radic, you mentioned Anta Starčević, Kuharić, and I don't know who not all of them, these people listened to their people very much, and they didn't break down like this when this government came down. The problem of the Vukovar but the minority is neither a language nor a letter nor a minority problem, however, minorities are the wealth of this people. But minorities who feel that this is their homeland, not those who wave flags in Borovo Selo that build monuments to Chetnik dukes and whose children teach a different history than those who are Croatian. I think that's the biggest problem this government and we all have to deal with together. Well, when that's resolved, then there won't be a problem with either the Cyrillic or the Latin, and I don't know what language in any city in the Republic of Croatia. Those who live in this country must feel like their own homeland, learn and appreciate its history, love their nationality, nation, minority whatever you want, respect that culture and keep that tradition. But Croatia must be a country where all children will learn one history, speak one language and write many letters but love this Homeland and fight for it, and not be raised in a different way than our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85277	Thank you. Answer, colleague Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85278	As a member of the national minority, I can say that I agree that I also wish to oppose any national segregation if it is violent. But I also don't agree to assimilation. Every national minority has the right to determine its own space of cultural autonomy if the law and the Constitution allow it. The majority people cannot determine what history will be learned and what language will be learned within the frameworks of the national minority. It is necessary to learn the domestic national majority language, national history that has no doubt, but children of members of national minorities must be allowed to learn both the native language and the history of their native people and all that is important to the elements of cultural identity. However, there are two more questions. Yeah, this is a room for manipulation. Equally so that someone starts the initiative do you want to abolish taxes in the Republic of Croatia? You'd be against it, I'm sure, because you wouldn't be getting paid anymore. But I would be against it because there would be no pay for nurses or doctors or teachers at school. But it's just that most people would certainly vote in a referendum on tax cuts. Is that a solution? Of course not. As far as our history is concerned, burdensome but rich. They have nothing to be ashamed of, they lived with giants who were not the same ethnic images but loved their homeland equally, and so it was and so it will be. And as long as Croatia has its lovers who are not only ethnically Croatian but are also other Serbs, Greeks, Germans, anyone, immigrants from 300 years ago or immigrants from 30 years ago, Croatia will flourish. And when it closes, when it closes the door for others and different people, it makes such a Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85279	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85280	Dear colleague Beus, I'll look back at what you said at the beginning about Cyrillic orders. Many of the orders are and most of them are actually written on the Latin, they even heard here in the assembly that whoever is for Cyrillic is also for aggression on the Republic of Croatia. I mean it's, it doesn't actually belong, it's under the belt, it's so low it shouldn't even be commented. However, with your majority of the debate, I agree, but I disagree with one fact that you have concluded that the Republic of Croatia is a legal and democratic state. The Republic of Croatia is not legal, we have the greatest pain of the judiciary and we in the judiciary are longing for democratic states, we should be a democratic and legal state. No government, it is a parliamentary state in which Parliament has real power, you know well that the Croatian Parliament is a fix for decisions and not from today, not from yesterday, not from the Government, and from the Government of Jadranka Kosor and Sanader, and the Ivica Racana and before we had a semi-presidential system, so we know about this system. So I'm not saying it because you know it well, I'm saying it because people wouldn't be mistaken if the Parliament were to really decide here, decisions are being made on the other side of Mark's square and decisions are being made from that square of Mark's would not be discussed today, because at that time Zoran Milanovic would certainly have treated himself differently with the defence initiative of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85281	Thank you. Answer, colleague Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85282	As much as you, Mr. Vuksic, dear colleague, are right when you point to the lack of that definition of Croatia as a rule of law, I believe that it is a legal state, I want to believe. And I'm going to try everything from my place, from my position, no matter how much I can't change that picture, it doesn't get any worse, it just gets better. As for Parliament, who is to blame for us, for looking at us with contempt, for those who sent us here. You think it's really Zoran Milanovic's fault that we've been banalizing our debates here, that we've humiliated our position, that we've made ourselves ridiculous when, as we insult each other, we don't want to talk about the right topics, but we're always going back to some of which have neither bread nor benefit nor happiness nor pleasure. So do you really think there's no way for this Parliament to get stronger if we get serious, if we set ourselves up differently, so it's not always true that we didn't accept everything that came from the other side of Mark's square, but it's a question of what we're proposing, how we've made this high house dysfunctional or what we're saying about things that don't have any meaning. And that's why they despise us. And when you listen to these people, they say, so you don't talk about anything smart or important in Parliament. Many people also say that when they blame the political elite, you say up in Mark's square and never think about those in the Ban Courts, but always think about us in the Parliament because we are the mirror of this country, watching us every day, watching us not watch the transmissions of government meetings, not looking at what the ministers are doing in their ministries, watching us here every day what we do, and we are the ones who are to blame for it. If we're not aware of that, then we have to go home.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85283	Thank you. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85284	Thank you very much. I have to admit, I'm about to go with something I didn't plan on, but that's your answer to my colleague's replica. Who's to blame for a record like this? It's the same as the question of why someone can be an absoluteist, because they allow them around him. But I'll go back to what I answered for the replica. You pointed out immediately that it was a referendum issue, with it going to the Constitutional Court and that you would support it, so as far as I could understand from today's debates, it is supported by everyone, it is not questionable at all. You emphasized that most people have an obligation to protect minority rights, so I think everyone absolutely agrees and that's exactly what they all advocate. But the question of what preceded it and what caused these let's say misunderstandings or "understandings"? Was it really necessary for the prime minister to come to those negotiations at the back door, was it really necessary to place those records at night? That's why it's already creating some kind of mistrust, some amount of doubt, and I think that's where the cardinal error was made. I am absolutely against breaking records because it is also the property of the Republic of Croatia and I think that in the end it is the Croatian institutions there, but while we are talking about protecting minority rights by the majority, don't you think that a kind of ghettoisation of the national minority is just made by the fact that kindergartens are separate, these children don't hurt because they don't have them, but they are made by adults, their parents, and ultimately it's a country that supports such a system. It supports that division.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85285	Time, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85287	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85288	Comrade Novak, you've now talked about an important topic, you're talking about form, about caprices, about human animosities, about fighting approaches, it doesn't matter at all, but we're not talking about what's a metric. Therefore, this is not an initiative to protect the majority of Croatian people from the dangers of bilingual politics of a minority or of all minorities in Croatia, however, there is no fear, but it is launched in order to hit a government, that this issue is, in fact, so sensitive, so fragile, so important to minorities to turn it into a political issue, but there is no power to go to elections but to have the strength to control it. So people should be told who signed this referendum, it is a political initiative where you are invited to be an army of followers of a political idea that is retrograde, and you are not invited to measure whether you will live in a more free society like Croats or you as Serbs or you as Czechs are concerned. And in that, thank you for encouraging us to clear these things up a little bit because with a hammer on the board there was a hammer on the government's head. But I'm saying, you can't wait for the election, you can't wait for election legitimacy, you can wait for it to work like this. And it is known that in democratic systems in democratic societies, it is dealt with. If the law is not right, there are political forces presented in Parliament that are obliged to initiate changes to that law and to indicate that it is not good, but never to call on it to be disrespected as long as it is in force. Why? Because this constitutional law was passed by consensus of all and when it was measured 30%, it was believed that there would never be 30%. Today when you talk about 50% it's believed it's never going to be 50, maybe tomorrow it's going to be 80.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85289	Thank you, time. And the last replica of Ante Jerolimov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85290	ANTE JEROLIMOV: You said that someone gave you a shower, I think you gave yourself a shower with this, and it is good that you are aware that you are being watched and that, like all of us here, we have a certain responsibility to Croatia, to the Croatian people and to the Croatian state and to all minorities who, do not put in our mouths, respect and do not tend our debate to end any rights to minorities. And what you were practically saying was you weren't just talking about why this situation occurred. So there's some kind of cause and there's some consequence. You are the cause of your authority because you have arrogantly and arrogantly ruled against these citizens up against the citizens of Vukovar, according to those gathered at headquarters you called them barbarians. Do you remember that? You called them barbarians. You didn't want to take them in or talk to them. It took months for the prime minister to deign to receive them and imagine what someone said, even six hours of talking, six hours. You didn't even want to put a point in the agenda, 53 MPs to discuss the initiative. Do you remember that? You're still on the agenda if it didn't work out. You ignored 100,000 peaceful and dignified protests. Did you see it here at Mark's square? And then you wonder if there's been a referendum. So who's crazy here? It signed a referendum of 635 thousand of our citizens. These are the citizens of this country, the citizens that you and I and each of us represent, you don't know who signed who's not who thinks who doesn't. Does it mean anything to you? Is this power of the people, did it come from the people or does it work for someone else? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85291	The time of fellow Jerolimov. Answer to the replica of my colleague, Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85292	My dear colleague, I am very concerned about what people will think about what I'm doing here and what I'm talking about here. I care very much because here I represent neither myself nor my family but the people who went to the election. Not only those who voted for me but under the Constitution, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but I would like others to share it, especially some of your colleagues who often reach for a dictionary and phrases that only create an argument. Well, I can fight too, you know, and I'm a temperate Dalmatian, and my tongue is very long, and I know how to answer anything that's coming to me. But this is about something far more important. So I was never surprised that there was this referendum initiative, I am appalled, appalled that Croatian cultural heritage is not respected and that a political interest is being achieved over its back. So it doesn't matter at all what we said about our own history, that Cyrillic is part of which we can't give up. Why? Because that's exactly what those who took her in as their own, and they have no right to do it. 8 Slavic languages were used or used with Cyrillic, and not only that 50 different IndoEuropean and Altalic languages were used or used by Cyrillic. So who's such a luxury as to give it up and give it up to someone who's actually abusing it? We can't do that, it's our heritage. So be aware of the weight of an initiative like this. I have no problem with citizens wanting to express themselves directly what they are going to protest, so it is an integral part of democracy but cannot be manipulated by them. The responsibility of the political elite on them is the responsibility of what issues will be asked in which direction political action will be directed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85293	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85294	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I also thank the people who have been listening to the debates going on all day at our gallery, just not dealing with the topic that's on the agenda. But anything can be sold under discussion about the agenda point and we're here to hear it. I would ask esteemed colleagues who spoke about HDZ on behalf of HDZ and interpret the behaviour of HDZ representatives on boards not to do so. There are some of us who can talk about it. And if you can't hold back already to praise or tarnish HDZ's behavior on boards, then be so correct as to tell the whole truth, then tell us who he was, what he was for and what rights or interests he stood for. Do not hold back what is important in order to understand what the HDZ is looking for in Parliament and how it is put before and in the way that these topics are today on the agenda. First of all, I would like to commend the government because this session today shows its good and noble intentions. For seven months after the Parliament received a referendum initiative to call a referendum on the last day of the Parliament's regular session, we received the topic at 6:00 p.m. on the agenda. It shows your uncontested, high, moral, democratic nature to discuss this issue as soon as possible. And only this referendum, the referendum initiative, was waiting for a full seven months to come on the agenda. I read why, probably the Croatian public also read, because the Prime Minister said many months ago while I am the Prime Minister of this referendum will not be. And today it's just a game to be served, to explain what the Prime Minister told the Croatian public. Regardless of your rights, regardless of what the law tells you, I have decided that the referendum on this issue will not be and my obedient majority will spend the last day of the session during the Parliament's summer period doing so. I, unlike these stories that are false, will talk about giving up cultural goods and the heritage of the cultural Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people about facts. The first fact is that by 2002, in a law that regulated minority rights issues, the possibility of using official use of minority languages was reserved in places where minorities account for more than 50% of the population. This size, the censorship was amended in 2002 by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, reduced the number to one-third. In 2002, if memory serves me, the SDP coalition was in power. Then you didn't think that law should be implemented the way you've implemented it since 2013. That's the facts. It is true that the Constitutional Law, and we stick to it, predicts that the language of minority, language and letter should be introduced into the official use of local self-government units when it is more than a third of the population. The decision today at the debate to which the Croatian Parliament should address the Constitutional Court tells us that we are asking the Constitutional Court for an opinion on whether the referendum issue has been asked in accordance with the Croatian Constitution? And that is whether you are in favour of Article 12(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is amended by saying: "The equal official use of the language and the letter used by members of the national minority is achieved in the area of the unit of local self-government, state administration and the judiciary when members of a particular national minority make up at least half of the population of such a unit." It's about language and letter. No one spoke of cultural and historical monuments in Croatia written on Cyrillic. They're also written in a square verb and nobody's ever asked that as a referendum question. A specific question has been raised for minority languages and letters, i.e. to raise the threshold for the number of members of the national minority to be their language and letter in official use. According to this referendum issue, the Croatian Parliament has two options and that is perhaps the only thing you have said exactly. He can decide that he will call a referendum, and for this after 7 months there was not enough thinking, or has another option to refer the request to the Constitutional Court to give an interpretation whether the referendum issue is in line with the provisions of the Constitution or is a referendum issue in accordance with the Croatian Constitution? There's only two possibilities. There's no third option. And that is why HDZ representatives said that we agree to make a decision on this, that is, the Constitutional Court's request to give its opinion on whether the referendum issue is in line with the Constitution. And we have that freedom, no matter what you thought we were saying, yes, but not with an explanation of what you did on the 10 pages of the text. And no one told Mr. Stazic that a decision was made, or a request without an explanation, that was never said. He just said something else, you can't send an explanation to the Constitutional Court in which you're going to say that it's a constitutionally asked referendum question, that it's not in accordance with the laws, that it's not in line with a whole series of European documents that regulate minority rights. Because we believe that this right of evaluation does not even have a Committee on the Constitution and not even a plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, no matter how hard you try to prove us the opposite. It will decide whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution only on the basis of Article 95. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is the same Constitutional Court and we can address this issue without determining how the Constitutional Court should act and which position should be taken. In this, we objected to the reasons written on page 10. And if you want a whole series of documents quoted there, there are such general provisions that we claim that neither one of them is injured by the existing Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities or even by such a question as to what it is set in the referendum. But for seven months, it wasn't obvious enough, so you waited until the last day of the session to open the issue, talk about it, and find the best solution. And today we're listening to a whole series of thesis that have nothing to do with what's asked. About giving up our cultural historical monuments, giving up our cultures and those of Croatian culture that you so inspiredly instructed in your exhibitions. It is not a question, the matter of a referendum like this has been addressed if you want and the impotence of a particular area's population to oppose the great Serb policy that destroyed their city of Vukovar. That's the point of a referendum question only that's what you don't want to talk about. The purpose of the referendum issue is to respond to the fact that the Croatian government did not find it necessary to respond to statements by neighbouring country's leader that Vukovar is the Serbian city, Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Republic of Serbia. No one in the name of the government spoke of it from Croatia. And that's why, because of all these things, there's been such a referendum issue. What's more, it's an expression of the fact that we haven't all done enough for Vukovar together, that Vukovar has a job problem, that Vukovar has a problem with the fact that we don't know what number of people live in Vukovar. What you have often said to HDZ, we do not know the exact number of voters because some insist on travelling to local elections in Vukovar by buses from Serbia. But it was not a problem until it happened that a bus of Vukovars brought them to Croatia's last local elections. The fact that dozens of buses arrived from Shida and we even know the tourist agencies that organised it was never a problem in Vukovar. And that's the essence of the story we don't have as many people in Vukovar as statistics show but you don't want to face that fact and you claim that this is an illegal and illegal action of people whose Constitution of Croatia and the laws that are in accordance with it give the right to initiative, for a referendum. Only while they were in the game of Facebook protests, while there were various civil initiatives that sort of corresponded to your view of the rule of law then it wasn't a problem. The problem arises when 650 thousand people demand a referendum under the laws we have. Are they a bad solution to the referendum? They did. The referendum is not well resolved in Croatia. Are you forgetting that the last government, the coalition HDZ, has proposed... The amendments to the law and the new Law on Referendum but you did not want to conduct it in two readings but stopped after the first reading and until today has not been adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just for yours, when you're already so inspired to lecture us, for your information, if someone wanted to solve the legal holding referendum here's only this government has had 2.5 years, almost 3. But she wasn't worried about legally solving and dealing with all these recommendations that we're talking about. It has not been found to properly resolve the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, which has been in force since 2000, which stands still today and is a law applicable to the right of the minority to the official use of the language when it makes up more than 50% of the population of a specific local unit. But this government did not care, and this shows that the government had no interest in legally solving this matter, but at a certain political moment to use the problem in Vukovar to hide all the other problems it encountered. And I'm gonna do it again for the end of the line. The government came up with a problem of placing bilingual inscriptions, by the way, it is only one of a whole series of minority rights of which the vast majority is respected in Vukovar from the right to serve their language, the right to school in their own language, employment in local self-government bodies, government bodies, etc. The government couldn't get out of the problem with the famous Lex Perkovic, so instead of legally resolving the referendum issue she found necessary in this way to enforce a law for which she had enough time only that motivated very late remembered. The government has been in office since the end of 2011, and the board is under, so to speak, hiding from the public began to introduce somewhere in autumn 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85295	Thank you. The truth is, the debate began after break of 9.55 a.m., not 6 p.m. And now we're going to move on to replicas. Josip Djakic first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Mlakar, you were talking about democratic practices, about parliamentary democracy in this House of Commons. I would say first of all that this is an illusion of parliamentary democracy, that this is an act of democracy and that this is primarily a party dictatorship in this Croatian Parliament. That this is the case, and today's democratic practice has confirmed the same, as these people from the Civil Initiative who are here with us at the gallery today, that it has been ordered... by the Croatian Parliament service that they cannot enter the T-shirts with the emblem "The Association for the Defence of the Croatian Vukovar". It is a democratic practice applied by the party. And if the poor people hadn't gotten along and turned their shirts upside down and walked in like that because they didn't have other shirts with them, they wouldn't be here with us today. Here is so much about democratic practice and application in this House. When some were walking around with jubilee T-shirts, when they were walking with who knows what kind of inappropriate ones, they came naked and who knows what, then it wasn't worth the dress code in the Croatian Parliament, just today. Today for these members of the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff, this citizens' initiative. All the pickets were going through this house, all these inappropriately dressed, but today these black shirts with that little emblem on their hearts "The Croatian Vukovar Defence Stacer" couldn't get in. You've done well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85297	Answer me, Comrade Mlakar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85298	Dear Djakić, I thank you for the replica because it gives me the opportunity to say what I did not, of course, arrive in this speech on behalf of the club, which you pointed to different standards, which has already become the practice of the SDP majority. We heard today in inspired exhibitions that we should use the phone to answer, I no longer remember whether Cyril and Methoda or Caine and Abel, there were mostly all sorts of illustrations from any closer or further history. But I believe that this topic is so important not only for the Croatian people but also for all minorities, and in this particular case, the Serb minority in Vukovar, that we have no right to do comedy, that we do not have the right to talk in this way, and often when there are no arguments, we choose some beautiful images, sarcastic remarks and similar stories that our public should entertain. The situation is unfortunately so serious that, some said, it does not contribute to either the Croatian people or the Serbs in Vukovar, that it would be much more honest than all of us to very seriously approach this topic and to find a solution that will lead to calming, rather than an additional awakening of passions which, if it is not clear to you, long ago exists thanks to the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85299	Thank you. Zeljko Sabo, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85300	Dear Mr. Mlakar, you have called on committee members who have mentioned certain discussions or words or views within the Committee on the Constitution that has held discussions to be more specific or clearer or true, however you formulate it. But in that context, I would ask you, too, that in a certain way, you, too, in the context of discussions on certain committees, these same truths be true. The fact is that the chairman of the board, Mr Djakic, tried to put an initiative on the Defence Committee, but the board and I, as vice-president of the board, did not reject the initiative, but we said in an explanation that it should go to the regular procedure where it is, not to have a discussion on the board, and so we took that point off the agenda. In the context of what you have said, there is absolutely this problem and this doubt, and where we are lucky that in 2012, when data were published on the census immediately after certain information or concrete examples were set out in the new population list to resolve these differences and that the census might be controlled by a larger, more quality watch. At this point, it is certain that there are doubts about the census and as part of what you said about the buses in 2013 the spokesman for the Vukovar-Srijem County Police made it clear that there were no organised arrivals from Serbia by buses or any local elections. And whether it's easy to organize under the law, it doesn't matter now, but I support what you just said about a census check in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85301	Thank you. Time. Your time is up. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85302	Yeah, you got me a little confused, but if I don't understand you correctly, I'm sorry. You told your colleague Sabo that because of the truthfulness of the statement about how the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament work or for complete information. You added what happened to the War Veterans Committee where you refused to put into the agenda the point we're talking about, the topic we're talking about. I don't know if you know it, but any working body of the Parliament can be declared interested in some item of the agenda regardless of what its parent body is. You also have an amazing majority on your home body to make these decisions that you have proposed today, and then your colleagues in public will speak unanimously on the committee adopted this and similar proposal, unanimously from those who were in the session. Very often you have made unanimous decisions on the Committee on the Constitution without three or four members of the HDZ, and that is what I have spoken about and asked when it is said that a decision has been made to say, while Vice President Stazic said he forgot to tell the whole truth that we have been told that we are going to the Constitutional Court but not with such an explanation as you did because it de facto affects the decision already in advance and the plenary sessions and the Constitutional Court. And as for the bus as far as I'm concerned, you haven't had any problems until these last local elections to track who and how much it drives when it comes to Vukovar for the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85303	Next replica, Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85304	You say so, and you say so well, and it is true that you have been in favour of this decision to pass the assessment to the Constitutional Court, the referendum issue and the constitutionality issue, but that you have had an objection to this argument and that is correct. However, do you think the Constitutional Court is so weak that we too could influence the opinion of the Constitutional Court. I don't think, we can say what we want, but the Constitutional Court is here sovereign to decide. Finally, there is also a decision of the Constitutional Court, so I will once again quote to you from 13 January 2014 such a decision of the Constitutional Court also releases the Croatian Assembly of Constitutional Obligations to act in accordance with the categorical provision and to call a referendum. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament is not authorized to make a decision which would decide that the state referendum will not be called, but must go on, you said so, and it is not disputed. However, here, in July a few years ago when you were Minister of Administration you received Mr Vandoren who was head of the EU delegation in the Republic of Croatia where you made a special commitment to work to improve the constitutional law and improve the rights of national minorities. You were exactly on this day on 14.7.2009 a Cyrillic was introduced in Vukovar. You're the secretary of the administration at the time. Why didn't you react if you thought anything was controversial? However, not that you do not react then, but that you here in front of the Croatian Parliament as an authorised person defend this report, which states that Croatia is committed and that this Croatian government, i.e. Your government then in which you are minister also brings forward an action plan to improve the rights of national minorities, etc. etc. And again, a special example of Vukovar is cited as a good example. So, what then, colleague Mlakar to conclude today It's just that it's a Cyrillic. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85305	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85306	I'm really thrilled, colleague Anticevic, that you are so following my work, that you know exactly where I was at the date of 2009. That's what I'm buying you. Just tell me where and what. But since you like to read, what you've forgotten every time you talk about this topic, I'm going to use that methodology, so I'm going to read it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitutional law on the The provisions of this Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities. Try to concentrate. Can I ask you to hitchhike while my colleague Stazic is? So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85307	Comrade Stazic, I don't know what bothers you that you continue. You're replicating your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85308	I don't see a colleague. That's really my problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85309	I'm sorry, here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85310	I see it's remarkable. Therefore, colleagues must be interpreted and applied for the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, developing understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among them. The provisions of this and all specific laws must be interpreted for that purpose. The problem is that you forget to read it every time, and you cannot read just Article 12 or 24 of the Law, not take into account the whole. When you read the whole law, I still stay with it and not just for Mr. Vandoren's sake. With great joy, I will fight to protect the rights of national minorities, but I will always stick to respecting my country and asking everyone living in it to respect its legal order.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85311	Thank you. Marin Jurjevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85312	Thank you. Comrade Mlakar, at the beginning you said that the ever-increasing atmosphere here reminds you of the theater. I'd just add to the theater of absurdity. Indeed, you see where we stand. We here advocate that you adhere to the decision made by the HDZ in Vukovar on the application of the Cyrillic letter, and you advocate that the decision you made is not applicable. I'm just reading it. All these stories, the article these, the article they think are really just blurry. That's the point. You've made a decision, you've made, you've concluded at the city council meeting when you've had power there and you're talking against it now, and we're talking about. It's really a bit of a theater of absurdity. As far as this is concerned, I am a member of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Indeed, HDZ voted in favour of Mr. Seks to give this to the Constitutional Court with this fence you mentioned that you disagree to give this qualification, etc. but you see I really don't see, here I agree with my colleague, which is why every Croatian citizen, Baba Manda, in Split, could tell what she thinks about this and the Croatian Parliament is the supreme legislative body that reflects the sovereignty of the Croatian people and all Croatian citizens cannot express their opinion. He can, and he's not endangering the freedom of the Constitutional Court to judge how he thinks he should be judged. Which is binding after that for all of us. Well, it's our duty to bring our opinion, so that's why we're here. Let us not in the legislative power diminish our role on our own, and it is greatly diminished. That's where I agree with you. So let's not take away our right to judge. I came from Split for three days, Ultra, charged positive charges, here it's certainly the other way around, the negative itself. Let's get some people out of here. Let's get a little positive, everybody.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85313	Thank you. Time. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85314	My colleague Jurjevic, this display of yours really looks like you've been consulting with Grandma Manda. But that doesn't mean it's bad at all, but they're much clearer and brighter people than your majority who make decisions in the Parliament. And I'm going to tell you why, by force not to say under what conditions, we should discuss today the credible interpretation of the laws you want to amend, so you've made a real theater of absurdity from the Croatian Parliament and you're fighting for its dignity, so it's all a little bit odd to me. I'm glad that you think that the Constitution Committee should have its own opinion and that it is always manifested by most votes, and I agree with that, I have no problem. But I don't think it can write to the Constitutional Court as a lawsuit to the municipal court where you propose to the magistrate what kind of legal order he will bring, it can't, if the Constitutional Court is invited to assess whether this is a referendum issue in accordance with or not with the Constitution, then you can't write a sequence of all the above mentioned Committee on the Constitution, the Business and Political System is considering that the opening of a referendum with the proposed referendum question not to be allowed at the 69th session, etc. The Constitutional Committee cannot assess it at all, in this respect you and I are different, cannot, may require from the one you speak of as smarter to tell him whether or not it is in accordance with the Constitution. Read the regulations, and without Grandma Manda, it may be clearer to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85315	Thank you. Comrade Jurjevic, please don't, you're not up. The next replica of Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85316	Comrade Mlakar, you said that this debate is very important, I would very much agree with you that this debate on this subject is very important, but it seems to me that in your debate you are stressing exactly the part where you talked about the history of decision-making or decision-making on the position of minorities in the Republic of Croatia, so you called for a time before 2002 where we had this condition of 50%, so in 2003, when we reduced it to 30%. I would just warn you of one fact that you are actually advocating by agreeing to this 50% formulation of majorization, of violence most of them over the minority, which means that you are absolutely giving up the protection of minority rights because the purpose of protection of minority rights is not to protect someone who has more than 50% of the population because he is no longer a minority at that time, but he is a majority. And the whole point of that debate is actually getting lost, you're not protecting minorities and you're clearly saying that here. Because if someone has more than 50%, then they're no longer a minority, and you have no reason to protect them, but most people do, and they make decisions. And your debate is very dangerous because you would really warn because you don't understand the essence of the protection of minority rights. The other day we were discussing a minority here, so what do you really think some rights should be given to that minority only in a situation where there are more than 50% participation in the population and there are x of such minorities in the Republic of Croatia that I don't now list them whose rights we are as the majority obliged to protect and to advocate here and there are no more than 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85317	Thank you. Young man's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85318	My colleagues Turina-Đurić, I allow and, in fact, it makes sense for me to disagree with my opinion regardless of that initial enthusiasm. To tell me I don't understand it kind of stings me, so I'll explain why I understand. A minority in a country is a number of members of another country that appear in a population. What you're counting on is that at any point more than 50% of the population would represent the majority, so that's pretty logical, but you know if you have 10% of the Italians in Croatia but you have 60% of them in I don't know Rovinj then you're talking about the Italian minority in Croatia. We did not talk about the Italian minority in Rovinj and so do not appear to be members of a national minority of a foreign country. What I advocate is the protection of minorities who in the general population make up a fixed number no matter how small. But I am for all minority members to respect the state of the domicile in which they are located, not to ever hear their cry when it comes to minority rights, Croatia in their countries of origin is deleted as a hand taken away. We're talking about minority rights, and that's why we stand up. It is the minority that has its origin in another country of origin, and in Croatia it is in a certain percentage, and I think that when you calculate it, you will see that we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85319	Nenad Stazic, vice president, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85320	I, my colleague Mlakar, could characterize this presentation as a typical hypocrisy, but journalists are already making fun of you on the portals, so they call your performance a Cyrillic. In 2010, the HDZ government submitted a report to this Assembly on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. You were a reporter on behalf of the government. That report says the town of Vukovar. The City Council of Vukovar on 14 July 2009, imagine symbolically, on this day, a small jubilee, brought a new statute of the city of Vukovar and in Article 51, paragraph 3 regulated the free use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter and in official communication in public affairs from the self-government part of the city of Vukovar. You're boasting about it then as Minister Mlakar. Today, what you boasted about in 2009, you attack as if someone else had sent this report to the Assembly and it was as if someone else had defended it, not you. You say, in addition to that, how such a referendum question is an expression... Vukovar citizens to destroy that city. It doesn't matter because if this initiative you are now advocating were to pass, the Czechs should not highlight bilingual inscriptions in Daruvar, the Hungarians should not be allowed in Baranja, the Italians should not be in Istria. Therefore, you would abolish rights, not only to Serbs, to all minorities, because that is to say, a constant of HDZ policy. Your minorities have always bothered you, bothered you, and will always bother you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85321	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85322	Vice President Stazic, your love for HDZ is widely known. To beat me, I didn't expect it, to be insulted that I'm a hypocrite, it's not polite, and I won't return it to you in that way. I could talk about your performances, from all those affairs you've been following and investigative committees to the last of the murder of Mr. Djurekovic, so let me show you what it means to stick to your statements and your words, but it would take us a long way. I leave that to you on your conscience. What I've stood for and boasted, I boast today, yes, yes, yes, but remember that in 2009 when you mention it. No one has broken a single sign board, no one has broken the official rooms, and to Mr Saba, when he answers the word we will be able to talk, I will tell you what it looked like during the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov. Who broke everything, who broke everything and how people survived there in the first place. Therefore, yes, we advocate the official application under the terms of this law, the law was valid and Article 8 was valid then, but you cannot read it at all. Try to read it, try to work out what the formulation means, you have to interpret the provisions of the law on the welfare of both the minority and the majority people. If you have no feelings for the majority people, try to suggest a solution for someone who understands it a little better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85323	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85324	Dear colleague, after listening to the history of Croatian language and letters in these areas all day long as you said from the century 7th to today, you brought us up to 7 months of decision-making and two sentences. Along with all legal experts and committees and here in Parliament, two sentences go to the Constitutional Court to see if they are constitutional or not constitutional. And we are wondering why both the seven months and that year after it happened in Vukovar, which is why, except for the manipulation and the Croatian citizens and all of us and to drag all of us into discussing these things instead of discussing the key topics and problems of this country. The unemployed, the economy, the fall of GDP. We've been listening to everything and everything here, and recently at my town, the election for the council of local committees, from their press conference, I found out that we lost the election because we got 31 councillors, the 13 in the city area. I learned that the towns of municipalities in Gorski Kotar were much more developed by the index of development than coastal municipalities and cities, and we talked about the abolition of mountainous mountain law. Here we have spread so much about these things, literally in two sentences that have no connection, as you have said with the history of the century of the 7th of Croatia, the monuments on Cyrillic or on the verb, but only to turn 30% into 50% and never to question in Croatia that some minority will become most of them because by listening to such a thing, we are talking about ourselves thinking and where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85325	Answer, here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85326	Dear Klaric, you are now replicating with what is essential, but it is always blurry. Today, we have devoted all day to a subject that is important, it has not intrigued too many of our colleagues, especially not in the evening, but you have said what is important. So it's not at all their primary need to discuss how they're going to live in Vukovar, this topic is on the agenda today because otherwise the government would have to say, forgive how it was compared to last year that investments fell by more than 50%. Of those poor investments last year, 50% lower. The consumption index is 1.8% lower, some projections we get from the banks' association that the downturn in economic activity will be in the next year. These are topics that this government doesn't have when it talks about because there's no power or regulations anymore to write. So instead of getting out I think no more from the crisis, I don't even know what to call this state in which Croatia is today, we move to these laws. Now we're going to blow up the credible interpretation one more day, and we're going to interpret to people how normal it is that in the same workplace two people, with two salaries because the state, the state of well-being. Indicators, so whoever cuts the signs is completely irrelevant because it's important how the government is going to send us a message that we're doing great. If we are not aware of this, we should probably reconsider our decisions once more and see what the Government is discussing in order to know that we are living happily and satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85327	Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, indeed in your debate you spoke of being, you spoke about what is in reality, and it is in reality about the Croatian Vukovar. And they tell you, colleague Mlakar, that you and our minorities are intruding, and you see your colleague, Mlakar, persistently forget and change the perception of 26.6.1991, when the Declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia was terribly disrupted by them. Today they're taking out your 2009 phonograms, but on TV when it comes to that date you won't see them coming out because they're covering that part of the story under the veil of darkness, just under the veil of darkness like a thief as a poet would say, they're putting up plates of Cyrillic. Why? Who does that? What you wanted to shock these people here. Well, this is the Croatian Vukovar you'll never beat him with anything with a change of perception. And you told them well, you spoke well to them. But you see they're doing a show of everything, they're disrespecting it, and it's so simple, it's in their battle they can't do otherwise, that's right. They do not want Croatia, everything that has Croatian, Croatian or Croatian will not be. But the Serbians defeated in Vukovar failed to physically destroy it but neither will Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85329	You've overstepped a little, and I don't think it's right to use those words. Please don't make a mistake about Business, I'll stick to it. A fellow Mlakar, the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85330	If you haven't heard a colleague swearing amongst other things, that's for real.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85331	Please, colleague Shuker, please calm down and answer your word if you have anything to say. Comrade Mlakar, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85332	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85333	Look, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85334	What fellow Shuker, say, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85335	I'm looking for an intervention on behalf of the club because you haven't intervened at the extreme inappropriate appearance of my colleague Tomic, so first he sweared and then he got up and called me and I don't know which of his colleagues out there to get out if he wanted to fight. You don't react to that. I know you're having a session, you're sharing notes with this side as you like it, but you're only the first among the equals here, and it's not appropriate for someone to swear to someone, no matter who they're referring to, and it's not appropriate for someone to call someone to a fight. And colleague Tomic is generally known for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85336	I gave you my word you didn't announce a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but okay. By the way of the Rules of Procedure, I accept what you have said, unfortunately I have not heard literally what my colleague Tomic said, if I had heard you be sure to react, I would certainly have reacted and warned him. Good thing he got out. However, I ask you to refrain, the initial chapel was the debate of counterpart twilight in the replica. Please don't raise tensions past, the very theme is extremely sensitive to some, especially for these people at the gallery. Let's not raise tensions, let's not abuse, let's not manipulate because in a literal sense I'm going to start applying the Rules of Procedure, and I mean it's not correct. So far, the debate has been correct, please, to remain at that level. Here you go, pal. Here's your reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85337	Thank you very much. Now I'm scared to death. This one would fight, you took now I don't know what all the lines are anymore, and it's rude not to answer when I answer. Comrade twilight doesn't have a Serb for that you're being punished, there's only a Chetnik and then the future. They're members of some kind of formation, so I guess you have to use it that way. But it's interesting what you said, and that's what I wanted to react to. To note, it is only in Croatia and only in this House is it possible that whoever remembers to shake off this country and most often very offensive performances. And now I ask the question and the majority I ask to protect if you want the reputation of this House, that it responds to the fact that very often minority representatives speak very harshly about a country where they protect minority rights, forgetting that in their native countries, Croats who are also minority can't even dream of minority rights that we recognise other minorities in Croatia. Moreover, Croatia, as far as I know, does not have any open issues about minority rights with neighbouring countries, only minorities in this House try to offend both the state and its institutions, this is also a question for the chairman. Let's once Croatia also get permanent protection, mostly just listen to insults in their performances. It would be my turn to take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85338	A fellow Montenegrin, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Mlakar, you have not responded correctly to the replica in the sense that the chairman does not protect Croatian interests. I only invite you if you think of me or one of the chairmans to make yourself clear. I won't invite you out, you can go public here. But please once again, I warn you, let us be correct. My colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85339	... The replicas of Mrs. Sumrak, however, somewhere in some of our nearby countries are declared anti-fascists and freedom fighters, their movement is rehabilitated. [[Specially enabled.]] But our colleagues and colleagues then have nothing to say for the sake of historical truth and historical heritage and historical heritage. We also have 300m euros of direct war damage on cultural goods, Eltz Castle, Franciscan monastery, Park Vukedol, baroque core of the city of Vukovar, the castle of... It was all destroyed in the occupation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, when Croatian ministries restored the protected entire Baroque core of Vukovar, they renewed on certain monuments and a historical letter of Cyrillic. No one here has ever been against what culturally means a letter. But you must understand that also respected colleagues from the HNS who are here telling us and holding moral disciplines did not sound when Minister Pusic announced the withdrawal of the genocide suit against the Republic of Serbia. And one of the conditions why this lawsuit was filed was the return of a cultural treasure alienated from the Republic of Croatia and on the Latin and Cyrillic and on other historical monuments, robbed and that was the reason for the prosecution. They did not buzz when the heritage funds were broken by 50% in the Croatian budgets, above all for heritage. If you'd like to have a Vukovar heritage. They did not buzz when they set up a completely incompetent person for the director of the Archaeological Museum in Vucedol, a new museum that grew up in weeds only because he is a member of the HDZ. So it's not about cultural heritage or the letter, the point is that it was put on board, on institutions and not punished by those who committed a crime, no missing persons were found. Mrs. Pusic was unable to receive... [[Intruder: It's time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85340	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mlakar, here you go. You're running out of time, I'm afraid. [[Intruder: And time's up?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85341	A little fellow Mesic was in the mood, but it's a good thing you stopped, and it's a good thing you stopped at this pick-up. Today we were taught because we were otherwise weaker education structures about history, about culture, about heritage, so we learned that Cyrillic and Croatian script. And I thank you all for helping us figure it out. I would add that is a modern letter in which many modern nations communicate, especially good to get it in web applications when you're looking to get an application. But what's important is what I wanted to say nowhere in this decision, and they bombed us all day, no mention of Cyrillic, no one mentioned Cyrillic. Whoever of you hasn't read it, please read the motion for a decision that goes to the Constitutional Court. In the referendum issue, it states how this and our law stipulates that you have the official use of the language and letters of the national minority. Not a single word has been said of Cyrillic, and all day long you want to convince us that we are imposing some lagging attitudes, that we are the ones who give up our cultural treasure, our cultural, cultural heritage, and you are the ones who protect such wonderful and advanced things. Since we are discussing a very specific matter, I will appeal to you again, no one but you in the debates has mentioned the Cyrillic at all in this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85342	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would be so happy if my colleagues on this right would react this hard when Nikolic said that Vukovar was Serbian, when there was an excess at the basketball game of the young team in Vukovar, when practically there was a big Serbia going on, but no one was reacting then. However, the key thing is that someone wants to show that there is a record on which the police or some court on the Latin and Cyrillic are the world's largest range of protection for minorities. That's just not true. But when you want to cover up one big mistake and one slap that you've hit on yourself in front of the European community and you don't know how, given the experiences of those you want to cover up on their 50-year-old work, make up what all Croats are going to react to, and that's what you're going to do overnight, set up Cyrillic tablets in Vukovar and let's practically put those fresh wounds with salt and bleed them again, and then you get the reaction you're getting. We've been discussing here for what hours, 7 and 2, 9 hours, we've practically not discussed the scale of things at all. We haven't discussed the scale of things at all. We are discussing everything and everything, and why, because these great conflict makers in Croatia have the following problem, which is a credible interpretation of this Police Act. They do not need this referendum at all, nor do they care about the Serbs in Vukovar at all, but they have now put this on the table so that they can get a credible interpretation of how they illegally fired 2400 police officers who were mostly volunteers and who were in the most part fighting for this Croatia, and the question is what will be in the autumn after that credible interpretation and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85344	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you've moved away from the subject and contributed to the general impression. Here you go, pal. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker, here I am calling again for what I think is really important. It's important to calm passion in the best possible way. I've spoken, but perhaps it's worth repeating, setting bilingual inscriptions is just one in online minority rights, I dare say less important. It's more demonstrations than actual consumption of certain rights. You have the right to use your own language in schools, you have textbooks in your own language, you have radio shows, you have everything within minority rights, including some very high standards when compared to European countries, such as minority representation in certain local self-government bodies, state administrations, and even in public enterprises, where there is even overrepresentation of minority representatives. HZ had almost 30% of the minority members in that part in 2010, but it is irrelevant. Let us suggest that we implement everything that needs to be implemented in a decent, peaceful, and dignified way so that we do not insult anyone by applying such provisions and that is why we should stand up for it. Today's debate that colleagues have translated into that HDZ is fighting the Cyrillic as an old Croatian letter is shameless, ugly and unnecessaryly complicated possible simple and good solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85346	Thank you, and I'm pushing for a debate on the subject. And the last replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85347	Dear colleague Mlakar, you just said in your line that no one was talking about Cyrillic, you meant this left-hand side. Please read the stenogram and read who spoke most of the Cyrillic, who caused these polemics. It's your MPs. I'll try what you said to calm down passion, but I must remind you you're wrong when you're talking about the definition of who the minorities are. The Roma don't have their own country, so there's one exception. You were talking about countries, minorities of other countries, etc. You spoke of the obedient majority and characterized this most obedient thing that I fully agree with you, but you forgot to say that all the previous majority were obedient. List me a majority who was not obedient and who did not follow the blind leader in the Croatian Parliament. And if I understood you correctly, you said a referendum question, the intention of a referendum was to oppose the great Serbian politics. That's what I figured out. I think there are much smarter ways and other ways to stand up to it, not with this referendum, not with such a referendum because it's been manipulated on both sides and on the other hand, and there's been a lot of damage and people are more divided than they were before. And everyone doesn't take it as lightly as the parliamentary representatives understand this debate, many react emotionally and it's not good to manipulate the referendum. It's not good. Now people are confused when they say who's talking about Cyrillic. All day long, only here in the Assembly talk about Cyrillic, 80% of HDZ is talking about Cyrillic. You say no one talks about Cyrillic. The referendum question isn't about Cyrillic, it's true, it's about raising... you're right. So why didn't you talk about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85348	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85349	You ask me why I didn't talk about it, and for everyone, I assume you measured it well 80%, I'm not sure of the percentages, but they don't matter. I was talking about my vision of the problem, I was talking about what I think we could do to get out of some kind of confrontational debate where they're prepping each other. I, among other things, have already been assigned to what I stand for, and as long as you follow, you can track the phonogram. I did not say my position at all in terms of the issue, but I said that there are only two options: or we will decide that the Parliament will question the referendum or ask the Constitutional Court to check the constitutionality of the issue. There's no third. There are only those alternatives. What I also felt important to say is that the Parliament, regardless of its importance and value, cannot take the role of the Constitutional Court and decide whether this referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution or has some problems, because if so, it would be written. It specifically says who decides on whose request. So the procedure is prescribed. And I was just pushing for us to respect it by bringing us back on the subject you're right to raise the threshold. Is that good or isn't it all else somewhere behind the door, because everyone focused on the Cyrillic to teach us that it's an old letter of Croatian that we give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85350	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Honored representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt on behalf of the club DC Novi val and zastavnica Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85351	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's this Parliament remembered a number of discussions since '91. And the introduction and non-introduction of the wheels at that time of war. We also held discussions on extensions of mandates and on declarations, resolutions, pardons, Erdutian agreements, Z4, we also held discussions later on the adoption of constitutional laws on minority rights. And all these discussions are just one thing in common. As difficult as it was for Croatia at the time, the rights of national minorities were never reduced, but they always spread. And today, the question is, what are we discussing? Are we discussing Cyrillic or discussing reducing minority rights? This is 2014, it's not '91. There are questions about which by force the Constitution is forbidden to hold a referendum. What are these issues just being decided by the Constitutional Court in any particular case. Although the Constitutional Court decides at the request of the Croatian Parliament, it is still doing preventive constitutional supervision. First, is the question allowed at all? If it's how to implement it. And the question arises what kind of decision will be made in this case by the Constitutional Court. We started with Vukovar, and we ended up reducing the rights of all national minorities. The fact is that the Vukovars first wanted the city of Vukovar to become a monumental area of the victim of large-serb aggression, to be excluded from the introduction of Cyrillic. The fact is that the Prime Minister, in practice, has shown no understanding of the proposal, nor has he tried to see how, in which way, some legal opportunities would be available to implement such or some similar proposal either in part or in full. The fact is, instead of listening in my opinion to the politically wisest president of the Republic who advocated dialogue, and here the President of the Parliament began to take off their bilingual plates at dawn, and from that moment on, everything went to hell. A painfully built process of normalization has returned back in many, many years. There were bilingual boards from facades in Vukovar, but also in other cities where there was never a problem and that never bothered anyone. And that was briefly the result of the placing of bilingual tables in Vukovar and what the Prime Minister then called a triumph of Croatian will and state. And now after that, the Vukovar Defence Staff decides on a referendum as a legitimate institute for the achievement of certain rights. However, the referendum issue is questionable. On the one hand, they did not, of course, seek to subtract from the use of Cyrillic because at the outset it would be discriminatory, and on the other hand, it is not clear at all how this has taken place in this broad definition and practically banning the use of minority languages in the state administration and the judiciary, the question of raising the threshold to 50% instead of the current 3.3%. Practically all of this is interpreted as taking away acquired rights from minorities. Of course, it is not popular to go after retroactive moves when it comes to constitutional guarantees, and probably the EU would not see it with approval. Also on the basis of the 2002 Constitution on the Rights of National Minorities, Croatia has already signed a number of European documents, conventions and charters, and in the negotiations on EU accession it has also taken on specific commitments, which means continuing to strengthen the protection of minorities including through the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And to some extent, raising the threshold could be considered a return to the worse, because raising the minority quota means de facto reducing or limiting minority rights, not further strengthening them. Now, another thing is the way and deadlines of introducing bilingualism. This is exclusively the internal issue of the Republic of Croatia. The government is practically not telling the truth when it says it is wanted by the EU. It's just not true. There is no need to pull the European Commission's hand and ask for support for the introduction of Cyrillic anywhere. The European Commission has made it clear on several occasions that the issue of bilingual inscriptions is within the competence of the Member States. And that is why the EU insists on bilingualism at all costs because today, too, many Member States do not have the most happily resolved issue. For example, Slovakia and its laws on the use of the Hungarian minority language, Estonia, and its relationship to the Russian minority. That is why the EU does not have a single minority policy at EU level. And that's why I think that for the introduction of bilingualism in the city of Vukovar the most rational option would be to agree not to postpone, not to moratorium, those words belong to the past, to some wartimes. No more moratories. So, not this, but a continuous dialogue until the moment when it is simply said is now matured time for the implementation of minority laws and in these topographic parts. Because you can't convince me, I don't know any case that he's a representative of the Serb national minority, that in court he was forbidden to speak, write, speak with his own letter or language. That's not the case, he's not in Vukovar. Either that a representative of the Serb national minority addressed the Cyrillic mayor or a city government official and that he did not respond. There is no such case in Croatia or in Vukovar. So, what are we talking about here? It's not easy to talk about all those horrors that happened in Vukovar. There have been many missteps, provocations, misunderstandings, very hard statements, a statement I would almost say at a theoretical level and we could hear them today and I don't think such statements absolutely contribute to the feeling that we Parliamentarians and politicians have a sensitivity for a moment of people living in Vukovar today. The normalisation of the relationship between Croats and Serbs is a long-term very sensitive process. I'll just remind you of the example of France and Germany. The French government has long defended the use of German and these stereotypes as all Germans... They were long entrenched after the end of World War II, the German language was banned in schools, and only since the 1960s began to be very, very gradually introduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since 1992, bilingual tablets have been largely French and Alemanian at state institutions. So, 60 years after World War II. And now some take exactly the example of France and Germany as an excellent example, as a recipe for these relationships. And that reconciliation process didn't go easy at all. And Sarkozy, when he was president, was horrified by his statement that Germany should be a real model for France because it simply could not be swallowed in the eyes of the French. I'll just remind you that how it actually reconciles is an overcomplicated issue that cannot be solved over the knee and allies are only at their celebration in 2004 for the first time what would be said to be left to the 60th anniversary of the landing on Normandy of German Chancellor Schroeder. So much for the speed and the process of normalising life and reconciliation. Of course, what I have cited as an example of Germany and France is not some pretext for not introducing a Cyrillic in Vukovar, but just a reminder of how difficult it is and how long it actually takes to put things in place. I expected that, frankly, this referendum issue will also be referred to only Vukovar when it is said and shaped, because I really believe that Vukovar must be a kind of speciality in which, due to sensitivity and today, the situation, and we see what it is, must take place gradually. In all other parts of Croatia, I don't think such a question should be asked. In that sense, we will absolutely support this issue to go to the Constitutional Court, and of course in the Constitutional Court it is that as a supervisory body it says whether or not it is allowed. However, the question arises what if it is not allowed? The problem remains. He will remain unsolved. And the question arises which policy after today's debate has the nerve to solve the situation in Vukovar? Unfortunately, I don't see her here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85352	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt you have well established that things are such a character that are not definitely talked about today about the measure of what the Constitution Committee actually sent to the Croatian Parliament and what it is looking for. And he's asking that, and he believes that what the Constitutional Court says is that he thinks that calling a referendum with the proposed referendum issue is not allowed. That's what they write in their submission. And that's why all this sedition... that it's not allowed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what they wrote, and so with nine votes to make a decision. So the absolute question isn't allowed for them and that's how they implicate the Constitutional Court that their decision should be made. If that Cyrillic had remained under the Constitutional Law and could have been put into moratorium. As I said in my previous replicas, at least until all the victims are properly buried, discovered, at least not to be those still fresh wounds and that the special pitet in the City of Vukovar, so it is during a certain period of time as it was for members of the Serb minority who were to serve the Croatian army and not, just because they had a case of conscience or did not want it, and there were all postwar activities and here was Croatia allowed, the Croatian majority allowed the law not to apply to them. So I can agree with this that we should postpone this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85354	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85355	Dear counterpart Djakic, you know, in my work as a normalisation of life between Croats and Serbs, I met with the severe traumas of Croats who lost their loved ones, who lost their property and you know it's very difficult to see tears every day of these people and suffering. And hardly anything can make it right, you just don't have that magic wand to bring people back to their lives. I also spent the same amount of time, I did not say I spent, but also spent a lot of time talking to representatives of the Serbian national minority in Vukovar and the surrounding area, even having talked for a dozen hours and solving their fears about what kind of Croatian state would live with them if they stayed. These are all the traumas of dear colleagues we see today in Vukovar. And if you think it's possible to solve it with one question, by asking a referendum, then you're wrong. So there's a lot of effort to make, to solve every single case, it's not that big a country that all of these cases can't solve and help them continue their normal lives. This is all, I won't say everything, but the good part of a theoretical debate that with real life is as far away as stars. And that's why I don't think we should go for minority rights to be reduced, but we should go for that issue in Vukovar... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85356	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85357	Dear colleagues of Shkare-Ozbolt, I agree with you that minority rights should not be reduced and I agree with you that Vukovar should have been declared a city of special importance, a city of special piety. What you're just saying now, Vukovar, we're only dealing with casually, on occasions when it comes to political quarrels and when it's meant to catch a political point in a hurry. Vukovar, as it looks today, was supposed to look 10 years ago, and today it was supposed to be completely restored with investments that are not available in all of Croatia as to the ability of this and the previous government. It is necessary to invest, agree with you, daily efforts to solve the problems in Vukovar, but the sponsors of the Vukovar Defence Staff should have consulted better because they will also do themselves harm to the Croatian people and have done the most damage to Vukovar himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85358	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85359	Dear colleague Vuksic, I agree with you that a little more investment in Vukovar might not have the frustrations we have today. Because the question always arises when you have a job, when you have a level of economy, then you don't think about things or you're more likely to overcome some of the situations that we're talking about here today. However, the fact is, because of the difficult situation in Vukovar, we cannot simply, and we have come to this, and at least today we have talked about reducing the rights of minorities throughout the country. It's just not normal, it's not logical, it's not good, and instead of being dedicated to how we use this debate to solve or suggest a way to solve the situation in Vukovar, we've spent an awful lot of time on the past and we've actually shown that there are no politicians today who would be able to make a concrete suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85360	Honorable representative Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85361	Dear MPs, here you are, like many clubs of the day, and I listened carefully to everything, said you would support sending this issue referendumally to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality. Perhaps today, people who came from Vukovar did not expect it to be so, that they would hear, that some clubs or some representatives would support the immediate opening of a referendum but that is not the case. Why, here's probably what you said. I'd like to ask you a question here and now that you're an expert lawyer. Therefore, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities over which this issue is intended to be implemented referendumally is essentially not at the level of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has made commitments as we have already made several times, not only today but also before, to the Framework Convention, to the Framework Charter on Regional Minority Languages and to this European agreement that we have received, and you have already spoken about it on the Committee. So they became part of, excuse me, constitutionally legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Now, here's the question, are they, are these international acts stronger in strength than the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities? And the other thing, related to application, perhaps you didn't know, but in Chapter 23, in the process of entering or approaching, or satisfying... for the entry into the EU and the action plan, you made a commitment to... a guideline to the consistent application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, which has also been adopted and that guidance prescribes a way, a time-limit and therefore all that is necessary for that application if we take the census already behind us for a good nearly 2.5 years I think it's absolutely, I won't say the time, but it's... a guide.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85362	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85363	My dear colleague, I also said in my discussion that the Constitutional Court is practically under Article 95. Constitutional law preventative constitutional supervision and if the Croatian Parliament had lenient this referendum issue again the Constitutional Court could react because it simply has to take a stand whether this issue is forbidden or not. It's the key to the story. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has been conducting this Constitutional Oversight all the time and implementation of the referendum, regardless of what decision we have made today, such as or such, it is the Constitutional Court that finally and in this opinion which it made in January 2014, but also in some of its previous solutions when it spoke of the referendum, it has just highlighted this important role. And it may happen that the Constitutional Court is in conflict with jurisdiction with the Croatian Parliament, but the Constitutional Court decides again. ... International documents, logically, are always above domestic.... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85364	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85365	Thank you very much. I didn't expect Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues to be in line so soon with this debate. If I get confused, don't blame me, please. I think that we are slowly bringing this absurdity to an end, not until the end, it will only be when the Constitutional Court makes a decision no matter what kind of one, but after a year of conflict, division, quarrels and everything that happened in Vukovar, but also in Croatia about it, I ask if we have bilingual panels on buildings in Vukovar? Are those panels on the buildings? No, they're not. When was the Law on the Rights of National Minorities adopted? When did his full application begin? Setting bilingual inscriptions, the panel is so-called. the right to manifest any minority, in this case national. Therefore, it is publicly visible and thus shows that there has been co-existence between the majority and the minority in a particular locality, narrow or wider community. The moment, the choice of the moment when it comes to it was a political decision, it's not disputed. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. The government, and primarily the prime minister and the clumsy and unfortunate,...it appears unfortunate, they entered into a conflict projecting... a new world-wide conflict, thinking they would come out of it as winners. In a city where there are separate kindergartens, separate schools, separate cafes, separate streets or... walk streets, in the most expensive city in Croatia, without jobs, there is a feeling, situation or belief that this is the most important issue. And that's when the headquarters starts with a referendum question. And again, I'm going to say the clumsy or unfortunate, addressed referendum question if it's clumsy or unfortunate, then it's a mistake or deliberately subdued content of the headquarters issue, a deliberate question that has nothing to do with Vukovar and the victim of Vukovar, not even with the records in Vukovar. Unfortunately, it doesn't matter. The question was addressed in such a way as to refer to the rights of all national minorities. And that's why Parliament only has two options. If there is no doubt the Constitution of the question, and after checking the number of signatures may call a referendum. If there is even the slightest doubt that the issue is raised against the Constitution, then the Assembly must address the Constitutional Court whose decision is final. But also such an approach and interpretation of the referendum procedure until a few months ago was many controversial, not in the street but also in the government and at the top of the policy because the scenario was not to address the Constitutional Court but the scenario was to make a decision that the issue was unconstitutional, without addressing the Constitutional Court, that was the goal. That's what that statement meant, while I'm the prime minister of this referendum won't be. We at the club of Croatian Labourists believe and have a strong doubt about the constitutionality of the issues especially because of the content and contribution of the 7th EU Accession Treaty and therefore feel that we should address the Constitutional Court. But in the end, we're all losers and all those who wanted to be winners or winners are losers. And not only because of the way we discuss minority rights, but because of the referendum as a form of direct democracy. On Wednesday, the president of the parliament will be handed over a new package of signatures with a request for a civil referendum. This time about the rights or rights of parts of employees. It has already been challenged by some, arguing that by the possible success of this referendum for all centuries ahead, we are cementing and concreteizing the rights of parts of employees in state and public services. An initiative to collect signatures for another referendum has been announced, they said in autumn. The President of the Republic announced that the proposal for a new constitution would be submitted to the referendum and despite all warnings and calls by both the Presidents of the Republic and the President of the Parliament from the conflict that arose because of these unfortunate panels in Vukovar, we have come to the point that the issue of direct democracy through the referendum has become controversial to everyone, that it has divided not only the people, the citizens, the politics, the media, but also the profession. Who's to blame? The Croatian Parliament and the ruling majority who missed the referendum area properly regulate. And that, and I must warn it again and again, that the failure of constitutional changes on the referendum, and there were two key parts, the number of signatures when citizens seek a referendum and possibly the direction of an area that civilised could not be decided at the referendum and it is wrong for those who say that minority rights cannot be decided on in the referendum. It can be if you increase those rights with that referendum. Therefore, without a change to the Constitution, a new Law on a referendum that regulates a number of procedural actions of great importance so that such discussions no longer take place, as amended in Articles 90 or 85. The Constitutional Court, which does not give parliament the opportunity to address constitutionality, gives the obligation to organizers to collect signatures before the beginning of the signing. And it's perfectly logical and normal that before going to the public and seeking support for the signature, a constitutionality check of the issue is being carried out. And how tough, how much discussion, how much conflict would be less if we'd done it from the beginning. I remind you of that referendum on the Law on the Work of Experiences so far and what lies ahead. But it is persistently avoided to adopt, propose a new Law on Referendum in order to make it as difficult and prevent the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court from changing as much as possible. Today we have heard from representatives of a part of the ruling majority who are finally calling for it to be arranged. But why does this appeal point to us here in the Parliament, not within the ruling majority and coalitions? What are they doing? In particular, I think of representatives on whose behalf my colleague Beus Richembergh spoke. What are they doing all the time? One sentence and a division during the debate on constitutional changes has ruined the atmosphere, and it was said by the first Deputy Prime Minister, we need to change the Constitution quickly to boycott or disable this referendum. And in order for the Constitution to change, no new rules could be applied to this issue because the process of collecting signatures was already under way and any change to the Constitution could in no way be applied to this story. But that's not why we're not going to change because obviously we're going to have more of these problems. But such an irresponsible statement I repeat, the irresponsible statement has added to the atmosphere that has been transferred to the Parliament, and therefore no constitutional changes have been made. The same, and I will conclude with this, the damage to the further development of democracy is working and those individuals and civil society organisations who, in the case of tickling issues, such as that referendum on marriage and such as this, are addressing the Parliament and asking the Parliament, stop that referendum from rejecting that request, do not allow the call for that referendum to be called, whichever is the most harsh in the procedure prescribed by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law and cannot be understood and understand that the Parliament does not have the power to call a referendum if there are enough signatures and if there is no doubt about the constitutionality of the issues. If there is any doubt about the constitutionality of the issue, then the Constitutional Court shall decide on that. And this persistent public repetition and the calling of the Parliament that every question that any community, society, civil society organisation, intellectual, individual, journalist commentator does not like and addresses the Parliament is as dangerous as attacking a referendum by giving a high cost, fearing that it will bring me no disaster or, and the worst obstruction is to refuse to regulate the legal framework of the referendum. If all these conflicts, this world-wide war and this debate today were not enough for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the prime minister and the ruling majority to realize how important it is to prevent future such conflicts that we finally do not know what should happen yet. Just imagine the situation that the University of Vukovar, before the signing, is what I've been representing since 2010, should go to the Constitutional Court to check the questions that have been prepared to set things apart, what kind of atmosphere would be? Would all this that was behind us have been or would have been solved in a way to judge those who were. And for this reason, the appeal to all those who have influence, who decide, who have an impact on those who decide, is the last moment for the legal framework of referendum decision-making to really edit the way citizens who want a referendum decision from us expect us to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85366	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, your exposure reminded me of a report that seemed to me the Constitutional Court gave in November last year when he referred to that referendum on marriage. And when he sent through that report a message to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and primarily to the Prime Minister that it is not within the jurisdiction of the legislation to decide whether or not he will call a referendum but that if he is sure that the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution, that the Assembly... to call a referendum, but if the two of you are not in his jurisdiction but... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we forget how Pharaoh's Prime Minister said that while he was the Prime Minister, there would be no such referendum, perhaps we could rightly ask ourselves why this co-operative turn in the conduct of the Croatian government when by a few months ago she claimed that until he was the prime minister there would be no referendum and now I would say in a certain way the letter to the Constitutional Court was broken in order to, in order to, on the need to call a referendum. I must also say that I do not see what this government is actually driving, which is what makes this government insist on providing itself with the position given by the constitution in the jurisdiction of the Croatian judiciary. So let us remember that in this House we warned about the Dubrovnik Walls, and this is also the case with this authentic interpretation of the Law on Police, where the Government would like to point out through the Parliament that the Croatian judiciary does not know how to read those laws passed by the Croatian Parliament, etc., etc. It has been a long time since these 2.5 years of decisions which the Constitutional Court annuls whether they are laws or decisions or regulations made by the Government. I really don't know what to do with this government... It pushes right into that kind of procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85367	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85368	Comrade Bačić, 13th January this year is the opinion of the Constitutional Court. And a change in the position or decision of the Prime Minister to still go to the Constitutional Court, as is required, I welcome and commend that he has changed his position finally and made it possible for the constitutional order to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85369	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85370	A respected colleague, preschool and primary education in the Republic of Croatia is required. In accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, members of national minorities are entitled to be educated in their language and letter. Thus, among other things, they keep their identity, protect themselves from assimilation, etc., etc. Unfortunately, a lot of times people hear the wrong information about these processes about what's going on there and I've been there a few times today, but unfortunately I intervened from our colleagues and heard that something else is being taught there, that it's not worth the same curricula. Believe me, the curricula is the same for all in the Republic of Croatia, so everything is taught the same in its own language and letter. Among other things, we heard one example here today from a colleague that one student from such a school where about 96% of Serb national minorities won the Croatian language and literature county competition. It means that you learn well, among other things. And I think that those prejudices need to be overcome, to say that they don't exist. That's the first thing. And the other thing, what I wanted to tell you, and I've heard a lot of it, it's a divided city, divided cafes, streets, etc. It's probably also out of prejudice because it's likely that people haven't been to Vukovar in a long time. If you want to see that, I invite everyone in Vukovar to go to cafes, get them to go where the young are moving, get them to go to sports societies di together. It's not exactly like someone might say who's not from Vukovar and then it turns out to be true. No, believe me, it's not like that and a lot of things have changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85371	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85372	I hope this wasn't a replica of my exposure. ... It's just an explanation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But the right of all national minorities to use their own language and letters is not possible,...for education. For example, Roma cannot achieve this right because they do not have a standardized language, although something is trying to do. So when we talk about it, we talk about it, you always see that one, but you used this line well to send a message to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85373	Thank you very much. We now move to an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for 10 minutes. The first is the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85374	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's what I'm gonna say on this subject. They say art politics is possible. I think on this issue politics has shown that this art has turned into a rape possible and therefore it's not surprising what we've been through in the past seven months, and even a little more time of notice that there will be bilingual panels in Vukovar. I'm going to quote Article 8 again. The constitutional law on the rights of a national minority because I think it's the essence of everything and the essence of all our disputes. The provisions of this law must be interpreted and applied with a view to respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, developing, understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among them. This year we have been marking 200 years since the birth of Ivan Mažuranić very quickly, and this man said in a remarkable speech in 1886: "I believe in Croatia, its past, its present and its future. My love belongs to my people, my worship to all the peoples, not just once, but to all who are with us in one nest. First of all, you must love your people and worship others." I think both this article 8 and this speech by that great Croatian policy speak clearly about the intentions and how orderly society should look. So why today's debate on the decision of this parliamentary committee to refer this issue to the Constitutional Court, with the reasons on page 10, why the referendum should not be called. So we didn't just point out the question so that they would tell us yes or no, but we gave them a nice and complementary description of why the referendum didn't need to be called. It seems to me that someone has made a mistake, and the government has made a mistake, because it has made a move that has not yet been seen through. And when the Constitutional Court's decision is made and everything goes a little bit into oblivion, a new problem may arise, some new initiatives may arise, and any delaying the solution to this problem will become more difficult and more difficult. So even after the Constitutional Court's decision, we won't know if we've solved this problem permanently. For 2.5 years, this government has been wrong, making decisions that have retaken divisions into the people. It uses all democratic and non-democratic tools, standards because it is constantly felt that the government and the SDP are not experiencing their people, from day to day through here the entire mandate simply has been let down by citizens. Again, I do not know which time, the anniversary of Bleiburg, health education, conflict with the church, with the Constitutional Court, lex Perkovic, a referendum on marriage, a referendum on Cyrillic, a referendum on outsourcing, a life partnership, a monetization, all of which caused a certain differentiation or division in society. Did the government successfully hide this economic, economic reality that we live in today? Yeah. No day has passed that we didn't have an ideological theme on the wallpaper. I don't remember that day we had a break. As soon as one episode ends, the next two and a half years. So, after all, should we trust this government when it again offers certain reasons why something is good for the Croatian people? Why is something good? I say no. I'll try to argue and prove it. I can't trust them anymore because it tells us experience, and that's the best knowledge. No government has been able to earn three referendums in 2.5 years. None. So how is that possible? Apparently, the government's interests with the interests of the citizens disagree. The first referendum was resolved by the people, i.e. The procedure was resolved by the Parliament. We are sending this referendum to the Constitutional Court. This third one about outsourcing is probably going to be a combination of Parliament and Constitutional Court, and yet new ones are being announced. What did that look like in the marriage referendum? All the leading politicians, the president of the state, the government, all the ministers, clearly told the whole people we were against. Everyone else said about it. The 2/3 majority have shown that the people and the government are not thinking alike, that they are not thinking about the same problem equally and therefore the fear of the referendum and the fear of this government from its people and on this issue is getting even bigger. What did constitutional changes look like? Well, it was just an episode of good wishes for its people. It's a real lacmus paper of those relationships. First of all, bad law, an attempt to suggest to the people why constitutional changes are made in a completely wrong way. Well, exotic explanations, it's for the defender. It's because of this, because of what happened, and we all saw what was in the background. In the end, it ended up being the most serious, possibly the most embarrassing ruling coalition in two and a half years. And then they told us so constitutional changes will continue. They did not continue, there are no conditions until recently here, says the prime minister we do not need constitutional changes proposed by the President of the Republic. Well, this constitution works just fine, so you just said it. Well, then what kind of lies or really we all live together from day to day, from statement to statement. The Constitution doesn't need to be changed, he's the perfect prime minister. Second episode of a credible interpretation of the Police Act. He can't go into the agenda on Friday. Today he can go to the agenda. And what do we have, what does the first man of government tell us? Those who do not trust the Croatian judiciary should give up their citizenship. How does the President of the Parliament feel about me interpreting this decision of yours? So did you all give up your citizenship on the other hand? Or we forgot. Have you given up your citizenship today, whether you care about the state we live in when it can be like this or not? Well, those were messages from the Prime Minister. He was just sending them to us. You don't believe in the Lex Perkovic case in the judiciary, give up citizenship. You don't trust the Administrative Court, give up citizenship. Is that how we interpret it? So why should I believe now that these intentions are fair, honest when three times as many times as a child can't be deceived. It can't be easily fooled and these are the stories I say about, before good night rather than about something else. I think first of all, this is the damage recovery that occurred in the space. Someone went over the knee to solve a particular problem, thought it was enough to match their interpretation that we had a majority in the Parliament and that it was then a circumstance that said that the people agree with it. But the people reacted differently. I can't trust this government anymore, because I think they're like metastases on human tissue, they just destroy this society every day on every subject and it just goes from day to day. And that's why I'm glad when left-wings talk about human rights. They're always teaching us something, and we know what the SDP came from, what human rights were until the 1990s, especially that part of freedom of speech, about possible criticism of power. It was such a human right that you were getting a free holiday on a naked island with naturally certain beatings. That's where people were raised to adapt to the level of human rights. And I'm glad, too, when my colleague Jurjevic quotes a letter to the Corinthians for which one of our former parliamentary colleagues got eight and a half years, because it was interpreted in that system that he showed this love to his people, to the Croats. These were human rights and of course we can be satisfied on the left. But I'm not looking forward to seeing us and labeling us on the other side the way it seems all day. I'm saying, from the government that reached consensus on the Life Partnership Act with the opposition, if you heard the minister of the administration, based on an interview in the paper. Well it is a novelty in the Republic of Croatia, to reach consensus with the opposition through a news interview. No one talked to anyone. The EU's three days before its entry into the EU, the famous lex Perkovic, whom I have already said a hundred times that we will be rid of for years. A government that does not believe in the judicial system because it interprets retroactively its decisions by conditions and how it will be necessary for the court to judge me to the Government, Peji Grbina's colleagues in benches just don't believe anymore. They do not believe either Croatian citizens and ultimately remains what the prime minister himself said and we are putting up with each other and waiting for this episode to end. And yet I'm going back to the beginning and those quotes, I don't think Ivan Mažuranić made it. to act on our prime minister, none of what he said, and especially Article 8. Constitutional law. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85375	Thank you very much. I've concluded that you trust no one but the naked island. Okay. [[Intruder Boric: It is a symbol.]] Dear Representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85376	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I, contrary to some colleagues who have discussed earlier, think that it is precisely good that we can discuss and discuss what caused this referendum issue, that is, this request for a referendum. So we can talk about what we already have, and I don't know, and I don't even remember when we put the bilingual record in the Vukovar area on the agenda anymore. But here's to this day we haven't had a chance to talk about it, and I'm personally happy that through this point today, I can say something about what we're discussing today. Therefore, this requirement is not the result of anyone's whim or the fulfillment of one's wishes but has a broader dimension that goes back years and even dares to say at the time of the creation of the Republic of Croatia, that is, the defence of Vukovar and the Homeland War. In order to understand the broader social and political framework which has set out the form and content and possible legal effects of the referendum issue, I think the following should be taken into account. The request for a referendum is also legitimate in the positive legal regulations, including the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, established initiative of the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff as a civil initiative which has, despite the non-democratic atmosphere, collected a sufficient number of signatures from Croatian citizens. The initiators and the signatories of the request, so they recognized this question as an answer to everything you've done and better to say what has not been done and what preceded this initiative. If nothing else has shown their willingness to participate in the democratic and political life of the Republic of Croatia and I don't think anything has been caused nor justifiable Satanizing part of the media, politics and at all the political public scene because it shows that they may be going in the right direction but shows all the complexity and complexity of the problems that we simply pushed under the carpet and we stopped talking about it. That is why I will remind myself that in January 2013 I asked Prime Minister Milanovic exactly what would happen when he started with official use, i.e. by introducing the official use of Cyrillic letter and Serbian to the area of the city of Vukovar, predicting as a person, so as a man who was born in Vukovar everything that could happen and all that unfortunately happened and what led to what we are discussing today. So, for a year and a half after that, we have come to a debate, we have come to a request for a referendum that, in a substantive sense, does not do away with any right of any national minority and is not against international acts that regulate this problem. It problems the general conditions under which the rights of national minorities, therefore, including the right to the official use of languages and letters, are fulfilled. And the demand for that change is not illegal. And he is not the reason for Satanizing and stegmatizing those who set him in motion, nor for those who supported him. The more the other models and ways to address this issue, including the legal institution, interstate agreements and local statutes, remain in place. So I won't repeat, let's say, in Istria, members of the Italian national minority in most cities and municipalities, the county would not have the right to use its own language and letter because the total population does not participate in more than a third, or there are fewer than is necessary under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. But let's get back to what caused this initiative and the demand that is ahead of us. I'm going to remind us all that they've been years since the summer of '91. and until January '98. Vukovar and its inhabitants passed the most difficult period in their history, a victim of suffering and destruction that may be better off not talking today more and which had a scale of disaster. But I will ask one question, if we ask which city in our homeland has a special place in the recent Croatian history and hearts of people throughout Croatia, I am sure 90% of the citizens would answer Vukovar. If you were to ask them why, then you would have just given these reasons that I mentioned earlier but not just the causes of anxiety over the fate of Vukovar in '91. but also because of all those who from all parts of Croatia rushed to Vukovar to defend him, so to defend the Republic of Croatia, and many of them never returned home. And I'm sure that everyone in this House no matter how few of us are to answer the same question. But what concerns, regardless of what I'm talking about, is the lack of understanding and empathy precisely for the motives and reasons that have triggered and encouraged the drivers and supporters of this citizens' initiative. Cruelty and indifference, haughtiness, violence that went into setting up bilingual and two written inscriptions in Vukovar without wanting to remove possible obstacles and compliance with the provisions of the constitutional law concerning the official use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter were expected and justified in the reaction not only of the Vukovars, not only of the Croatian defenders and victims, but of a number of other Croatian citizens who witnessed it with their signature. And then declare that representatives of a legitimate civil initiative are supported by the signatures of 650 thousand citizens of shame for Croatia is extremely irresponsible and can even say scandalous. Today, it wants to be imposed that the Serbian language and Cyrillic are the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia, moreover, they are not a problem at all, they are the civilization and cultural achievement of the Serbian people, but they are also the ones who thought that police cordon can protect unreasonable politics, the policy of opening new wounds and trauma, those who do not understand what life is like in Vukovar and what life is like for those who are concerned with all this. So far from Vukovar they make decisions that are absolutely not good for all those who are there. However, these same Vukovars are not against the Serbian language, a Cyrillic letter as the cultural heritage of the Serbian people. And I already said once today that whoever claims it is extremely malicious, it does not want well either for Croatia or for the Croatian people and for the least national minority living there. However, the Cyrillic letter has become a symbol of aggression against Croatia, not because the cultural heritage of the Serb people, but because war crimes have been committed under this symbol, especially in Vukovar and its surroundings. I asked today when the first exiles returned to Vukovar were they welcomed by inscriptions on Cyrillic or Latin, and was that Cyrillic just a letter or was it meant to give meaning to Vukovar as a Serbian city? So he should have been given a Serbian character. If all this had been considered with understanding and the introduction of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, it would not only have been the letter but also the spirit of the law, and this referendum initiative would have been likely to be excessive. This is how we reap the fruits of poor and unreasonable government policies and lose time and energy to solve the far more important issues in which we live and depend on what tomorrow will be. Let us think about it and try to overcome it because it is what all those who depend on us expect of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85377	Thank you, too, dear colleague Milas. We have one replica, Dragan the Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85378	Well, here's dear fellow Milas I'd just like one thing, maybe you didn't know, several times it's been repeated today. I'll read you the official document that brought the transitional administrator William Walker there, you were talking about Vukovar... the area either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The directive, which says the following, says official tags for enterprises and institutions of the Republic of Croatia including the designations of offices of state ministries, district departments and other administrative offices in the area under... must be exposed to the building where the company or institution operates after the reintegration is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it was constitutionally finalised through an official written document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Number two, official tags for such a company... It will be, constitutional will be in both letters and languages, in Croatian and Serbian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what you just said in '97 was, what you said was both languages, here's just so much, this is a little intervention to say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85379	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Montenegrin, I didn't literally interpret what I said that Cyrillic inscriptions were, but if you were street signs, street names, so what we want to do around town right now is absolutely, and that's just it, we can't get away from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85381	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the honourable representative Dragan Montenegroc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85382	Here, thank you. It is already too late, but in principle I, as I said and through this debate, realized that all the clubs of the representatives and all the representatives of that decision would support this proposal, and someone does, the HDZ Club seems to have a grudge over this obvious after which it goes along with this proposal, but it is essentially for the decision proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure. During today's session, let me put it this way, I've even had the opinion that in one part, maybe I'm the most objective here. Is it more, you've heard more, not to say some debate, or to say, to each other, perhaps ideological debates, etc. I didn't feel anything, I'm not going to say some kind of threat, it's possible some moments, but I think it's been more predominant, so this controversy. So at one point, I thought my God, this must be a request for a referendum based on the City of Vukovar as well as members of the Serbian or participation of members of the Serb community in the City of Vukovar. I say through the debate I felt that how important the question is that perhaps all national minorities, and among other things, Serbs in Croatia have about a million and a half. That it's so much weight. Unfortunately, there's no more than there used to be 568 thousand, there's only 186,000 on the last census. And that's still seeing one particular problem. And many people say, many people today who spoke talk about how they want the benefit of not telling Vukovar, etc. I would really like to see more progress, employment, development, but even from those figures that were once in the late 1990s of 3.5 thousand employees in the Borovo combination, 400 to 500 people in Vutex, unfortunately there are no more. Not that there isn't any, but Vutex is gone, in the combination of Borov, I think he's even employed under a thousand workers, etc. To speak the City of Vukovar should be a city of a special pitet, so I will remind you by the last amendments to the Statute of the City of Vukovar, the City of Vukovar is declared a place of special pitet and no one disputes it, but there is probably no word about it. But what good did it do Vukovar? In the development work I was talking about, it didn't bring us much, and we have to admit it. But it stands in the Statute of the City of Vukovar, that provision stands, and that is what was wanted and it stands, though we were saying, and then it won't mean much. But I allow everyone to explain it in their own way, to defend their views and also this attitude regarding the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I did a little research in that part, though, and I took the proposal of law number 536 from 2002 from the Croatian Parliament's documentation. So, the text of the law that was then passed by doubting this article or interpretation of this Article 8 because I also know as a member and vice president of the City of Vukovar Assembly in 2009 when they changed the statute of the city in part as you heard today article 61 on the official use of the Serbian language and letters in the City of Vukovar area. I was a participant in this myself, and I know that absolutely at the time, not only the members of my party's SDSS, but also members of the HDZ, then HSP, now Ante Starcevic, was treated as positive discrimination. I'd like to read here in front of everyone, so to speak the argument, or the reasons why this law is passed. "It states the circumstances that the Constitutional Law on Human Rights and Freedoms, and the rights of ethnic and national communities or minorities in the Republic of Croatia, were adopted before the Republic of Croatia became a party to the international agreements presented in advance, that by concluding the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the Republic of Croatia took the obligation to regulate the protection of national minorities and the exercise of certain rights and freedoms of members of national minorities not governed by the laws of the Republic of Croatia or not governed by the provisions of the Framework Convention. It is necessary that the constitutional law regulate the principles on which the protection of national minorities and the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities already governed by specific laws or will be governed by specific laws, and the need for constitutional laws to improve, preserve and protect the position of national minorities through the minority self-government institute in local and regional self-government units, and the need for the adoption of a constitutional law on formal and substantive terms, in accordance with the amendments to the Constitution adopted after the entry into force of the applicable constitutional law, constitute a reason for the adoption of this Constitutional Law. The adoption of this Constitutional Law will regulate the protection of national minorities and the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the international contracts which are part of the Republic of Croatia. In this provision of the Constitutional Law, not only come from the need to regulate the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities and their protection but also from the need to maintain ethnic and multicultural diversity, and to develop a spirit of understanding, respect and tolerance with the aim of contributing to the promotion of the development of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, in further articles of the law, so to speak, excuse me, the reasons for certain articles are said that the special law of this Constitutional Law is the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, and the aim of making it possible to use the language used by national minorities in dealing with the authorities shows the provision of Article 10(2) and (3) of the Framework Convention as to ensure that equal official use of the language and the letter serving national minorities under the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article is carried out in the area of the municipality or the city as members of an individual national, where members of a particular national minority make up at least one third of the population of such a unit of local self-government. So, at that point, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation as it stands in the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, as the European Charter says, I will no longer say that there is no turning back, but these laws cannot be changed. By prescribing, i.e. by interpreting the Constitutional Law and Article 8 in the way it does otherwise than I did, it can be caused by doubt, but by reading, not to say the documentation of the Croatian Parliament, or the original text of the law, it is clear that this is not the essence of Article 8. Article 8 speaks of positive discrimination, with regard to this and our club and I... we support that this goes to the Constitutional Court, this issue, not to be called, excuse me, a referendum as there is a possibility. I already said today that these people who came from Vukovar expected that maybe the Parliament would make a different decision, that they would immediately go to the referendum and so on, in a way to satisfy their, excuse, request. In addition to everything I've said today, I don't think there's much to add, what I've said several times today, the first thing, I think I've told the board president, I've asked him what will happen if the referendum is carried out and if this right rises? It seems to me that he's confirmed to me, just like on the board, excuse me, that the board president has confirmed to me that he's afraid that we're not going to avoid the sanctions that we're expected to be under two, that I've asked my colleague Vesni Skare-Ozbolt, are these documents stronger in legal strength than the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities? So these international documents and obligations that the Republic of Croatia has accepted. She, as I assumed, said she did. So, in my view, even this question, if a referendum were to be carried out, the question is whether it could be treated as a stronger legal act than those international obligations that we, not only took over, but in which we said it would be one third of the population. Here, I'm going to finish with this and hopefully, here, tomorrow will be a vote, but I hope the Constitutional Court will, within an appropriate time, say so... no matter what the decision may be, but I believe it will be yes, that is my position and my opinion, that the issue is not in line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85383	Thank you, too. Replica, the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85384	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here, fellow Montenegrin, you've said nice things about all things and that the Constitutional Court will make a final decision on what will happen to this referendum issue. But you were saying before something about... which should have bilingual inscriptions, etc. I'm looking at Vukovar and cafes and shops and everything that's probably got a lot of Serbs who are entrepreneurs and who are doing something so I didn't notice that none of them have Cyrillic inscriptions on their company. Equally, the use of the right of ID cards on Cyrillic which is regulated legally did not take advantage of 5% of the total number of Serbs in Vukovar. It means that these people are not very interested in the Cyrillic letter and that they do not need it to be because living together with Croats, they probably know that cooperation and everything else is a little different than just Cyrillic. What I'm saying is that out of 34.87% of the Serbs in Vukovar, only 22.07% of the Vukovar population have declared that the Serbian language is native. What about those others who, the Serbs who are in Vukovar, have declared that their Croatian is their mother tongue? Isn't there something wrong with them that they don't accept? They probably signed this request for a referendum, put their signatures in the same way as the Russians, as the Hungarians, as well as the Germans, as well as the Czechs, all those who are..., but the European things you speak of and obligations, there are countries in the EU that have never allowed neither the Russians nor others... to have the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85385	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85386	Thank you. Well, today we have received, colleagues, a question, or an answer to our colleague Bora Grubisic's question about the European Agreement. And we got this European agreement on the tables. He asked where he could find him, where he could find annexes, unfortunately nowhere to find on sites, websites, etc. I don't think that's good, I think everyone needs to be given access to the Republic of Croatia and read everything that the Republic of Croatia has committed, after all. As far as law enforcement is concerned, what you're talking about, you're right, but I'll tell you, I'll fill you in here. Everyone has a personal right to choose whether to use that right or not, but we have to, so we need to ensure that this right benefit is not to be prevented. So exactly what you were saying, whether someone will be written on a Latin or Cyrillic or someone will use a personal or request in their own letter of language and a letter of the national minority, that is his right. And I'd just like to add one more thing, it's about Vukovar, and now that there's been a lot of really going on, I've said that a lot of today, almost as much as I don't know nine hours about it, no matter how few of us there are, I've said that according to this last list, although the results of the list have been delayed that there are 186,000 Serbs, believe me, and the way we're talking about this issue and the Serbs for us is a great humiliation. Speaking of Serbs, that's not true. Many who spoke put a complete Serb community in one context. If we're talking about war crimes, it's not the whole Serbian community committed a war crime, and it's a great humiliation for Serbs, believe me, it's not easy for us to listen to it when it's spoken like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85387	Of course, there's no generalization here we agree. Honorable representative Veljko Kajtazi. He's gone. He's losing his right to talk about this. Dear Representative Ilija Filipovic. Here's my colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85388	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. There's only a few of us left, but we're gonna do that part. So I will talk about this Proposal for a decision of the Constitution to link it to the future mention of the same qualifications with the report of the same Committee of 9 April 2014 in the composition of which was the proposal for a conclusion that was only discussed on behalf of clubs, and then the Croatian Parliament accepted it, sent it to the Government, the government counted and saw that there were many signatures and they were credible and here afterwards came this decision that we are talking about today. The decision we are discussing today also contains a number of negative qualifications on the request for a referendum, with the aim of not holding the referendum. an argument that is completely unnecessary with unconvincing legal arguments, and some arguments are not even a place in that argument, I am sure they will not be fascinated by the judges of the Constitutional Court. In that first report that I mentioned, I quote "As the request to call a referendum threatens respect for the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia" etc. the end of the quote, and the same word on the threat also contains a proposal for a decision. I will say that it is not an exact qualification that the referendum issue threatens anything or anyone because it is a legal and legitimate democratic initiative of the Staff, so just initiatives. In addition, the Constitutional Committee has never questioned the constitutionality of the contents of the referendum issue, nor is it its authority, because this will be taken by the Constitutional Court, and the Croatian Parliament, I hope, will decide on the opening of a referendum when the Constitutional Court confirms that the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's my opinion. Since 16 December 2013, when the request of the Staff officially arrived at the Croatian Parliament, we could hear a number of negative reactions about the request for a referendum, about the threat of constitutional order, about harmfulness, about the inadmissibility of the referendum, etc. Of course, any negative rhetoric on this subject aims to influence the public and create mistrust in the referendum when it comes to it. But to say that the referendum is not allowed, and we are not the Constitutional Court and to say that it is not allowed because we have accepted negotiations on the entry of the Republic of Croatia effectively, I am paying attention to the "effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities" not exactly holding water, since Article 2 of the EU Treaty is not injured, and raising or lowering the level of certain rights of national minorities, so that threshold must be derived exclusively from the relevant laws of the Republic of Croatia, so it would be better to see food properly and legally allowed to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities if the rights of the majority are consciously disregarded. The rights of the majority throughout the country are not, but in Vukovar, that as if from the Constitutional Law, Article 8. We just heard from a colleague of Montenegro, he said he'd quote that article on the 8th, but he didn't. I therefore stress the request of the Staff is not a threat but a legitimate and allowed democratic act, and the constitutionality of the referendum issue will be assessed by the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, I think that on the trail of rhetoric about the threat of constitutional order and the statement that we heard here in the High House that in the Republic of Croatia there is an atmosphere of headquarters supported as democracy, pay attention to wise statements. I am experiencing this syntagma of headquarters as a sarcasm which has been underestimating and disproved by every single person in the Stoger and their authorised and democratic initiative to amend Article 12(1) by proposing a referendum. Constitutional law. When that happens, then we can expect the provisions of the Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities to be interpreted and applied with the purpose of respect and the Croatian people who thank God are still the majority in the Republic of Croatia. You have heard well that I have listed an important part of Article 8 here. Constitutional law and this imperial standard of respect and the Croatian people in this article. In my court of law, the above mentioned contents, the standards set out in Article 8. Constitutional law is also the basis, I apologize to the whole story that was democratically launched by the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff initiative. The initiative extended the hand of the majority Croatian people in Vukovar to agree with the minority Serb community and unfortunately rejected, ignored and further politicised and is still politicised. In the application of the Constitutional Law that I am talking about, no one can freely choose from the above mentioned Constitutional Law what is appropriate to him while at the same time ignoring the rights of the majority and not respecting all the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, in particular Article 8. Secondly, it is undeniable that we must all implement domestic laws, it is equal to the responsibility of all citizens, but also in the Vukovar example, we must safeguard the pride and dignity of every citizen, all of us in our country, and protect all our values, particularly the dignity of the Homeland War, and not forget the sacrifices we have built into the foundations of the independent and independent Republic of Croatia. It seems to some that it is not particularly important and important for Vukovar. The living witnesses of the aggression on the Croatian Vukovar want to welcome the day when they will be able to walk carefreely in the city without fear, without stress, that they will meet with anyone who participated in the destruction of Vukovar, participated in crimes because it has become one sea for every victims' family. I have a lot of relatives in Vukovar and in Bor's settlement, and I know that these are their seas every day when they meet someone who's abolished, freed, but he's not free from prosecution and I think there's something we should do and how we tend to say the rule of law. Was it the only way to force the implementation and selective application of the Constitutional Law in Vukovar? It's not. Why was it allowed to destroy the peace of mind and the beginning of the bearable co-existence of the Croatian people with everyone else in this city. What has been achieved by the covert nightly installation of two letters on the facilities of state institutions in Vukovar? Is there even a serious country in the world in which the laws are implemented through the night sneaks of the state... By hiding from the public who chose the same authority? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, no logic. We know that and what happened afterwards because the revolt of what was happening in Vukovar was transmitted by one domino effect, escalated throughout Croatia, and it stopped some unrest in Vukovar. Why don't we ask ourselves where the reasons are that keep us from being politely, discreetly, tolerantly and ultimately overcome the crisis points of our struggles, it's not Cyrillic,... Someone often used Cyrillic, it's not Cyrillic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a constitutional law that is not respected. I said in what sense. The headquarters responded reasonably to numerous and made certain demands, all of which were rejected, and the moratorium on which there was a speech that I was not very inclined to do but was not accepted as any argument. However, despite all this, the people called for a request not to apply the Constitutional Law selectively, to strictly implement the provisions of Article 8 of the same law because they did not respect the rights of the Croatian people which violates peace and hinders official dialogue in Vukovar and which led in the end to the request for a referendum. And finally, the president himself, that I am personally neither an anti-majority nor an anti-democracy without any doubt, remains at the point of view that we should cultivate the achieved European standards of established national minorities' rights. Therefore, our Constitutional Law needs to be amended in accordance with the practice of the Member States of the European Union at the proposed level of those rights for national minorities, as defined by the referendum issues. When we do this and when members of the Serb ethnic minority as well as the majority Croatian people in Croatia With love, respect and honesty and without any reservations accept Croatia as their homeland, it will be recognised by Vukovar and the whole of Croatia and we won't need any referendum. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85389	Thank you very much. Replica, respected representative Frano Matušić. [[Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85390	Thank you, Mr. President. So I had no intention of reporting, but I was encouraged by your approach by your colleagues and by the right attitudes, I would say freely, in fact, that I would respond to something that appeared during the debate and went so far as to announce sanctions to the Republic of Croatia because of the alleged non-compliance with the Agreement and the treaty we signed in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Not only is that not true but it's simply not based on anything. Therefore, such a view that the Republic of Croatia will receive sanctions if this referendum comes to an end as a referendum and that the position of the Croatian people on this matter cannot in any case be caused by any sanctions. To be more precise, I am talking about the rights of national minorities who are much higher in Croatia than in many Member States of the European Union. To be even more precise, there are European Union countries that have no national minorities at all, or have national minorities but do not recognise their existence and do not recognise any national minority status. So you have countries, developed countries, founders of the European Union that do not recognise at all the existence of national minorities in their country. So there are no national minorities in their countries and there are no rights. So it's a fact and it's a reality. This is what we are talking about and talking about with their representatives in both the Council of Europe and the OSCE and the European Union, the European Parliament, etc. So this is about, of course, you're absolutely right, it's about the application of the Constitutional Law, and unfortunately, that application has not been implemented the way the Constitutional Law itself requires it to be implemented. And that means respect, that means co-existence, that means respect for the majority people and the minority community they refer to, etc. So we're all clear That it was provoked by the government to hide some other problems. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85391	Replica response, respected representative Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85392	Thank you very much. Comrade Matusic, you were not in the assembly and neither was the President of the Parliament. I asked one of my colleagues a question, I thought Caine and said, so I'm going back to the decision we're talking about because the decision essentially requires an amendment to the Constitutional Law of Article 12. The decision is followed by a reference to the decision on 15 legal acts, among them 14 are international legal acts and 1 is the legal act of our Constitution, so the highest legal act. None of this document that is here, I wrote it down, that I don't bother you, decisions, recommendations, resolutions, conventions, etc., charters, none of them have any international legal acts, nor the above nor the lower threshold of the rights of national minorities. There's something very interesting, I think the Constitutional Court will take care of it, I believe they'll ask for a stenogram or a phonogram of this debate because they've been talking about this all day without them being interested in believing. So there's one thing that one of ours, I don't know how much time I have, one of our prominent Croatian sociologists is talking about the depravity of democracy, so that's what pushes democracy in a depraved way, said it's the depravity of democracy. He says, "If laws are not in the interests of citizens, in the interests of all the social values on which society is founded and can survive, then these laws are as criminal as those who impose them and conduct them according to their interests." Here, everyone can be recognized from this quote by a prominent Croatian sociologist.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85393	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85394	Mr. President. Dear counterpart Filipovic, countless colleagues in today's debates used the Croatian Parliament's pay phone to interpret certain rules, certain legal acts. So here you have tried to interpret one thing. What I'd like to talk about here is the facts, and these are the facts that no one here has disputed the legality of the referendum that was conducted by the Vukovar Protection Staff. Has anyone slowed it down? We are here today asking a question after a collected procedure and verifying the signature of citizens who demand a reduction of rights or raising the rights of national minorities to 50% to ask that question to the Constitutional Court. That was the only point and the only question we talked about. You also mentioned the abolization of the crime, that the criminals were abolized. No, the crime in the Republic of Croatia towards no one, according to either the Croatian majority or the Serb minority, the crime is not absolved. Furthermore, here in today's debate, we still have to admit that this is about reducing the rights of national minorities by raising the price from 33 to 50%. It's facts and we're asking the Constitutional Court to make sure it's okay or it's wrong and the matter is over. And here we were talking about, there's nothing we didn't talk about. What conditions have changed in the city of Vukovar where most HDZ partners have brought a two-letter inscription to the city of Vukovar? What happened in 2014? What were the facts about changing our attitude now? I never changed my attitude about Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85395	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85396	So I'll start from this neighborhood you said. Crimes, of course, I've mentioned crimes don't go out of date and can always be dealt with by the state's bodies. All the abolized can be subject to institution processing, so... No, no, that's a clear thing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The threshold you're talking about, the threshold on which this referendum question speaks will be very interesting. It will be a question of breaking the spear whether or not there will be a referendum. If there's a referendum and it passes here we don't have a lot of stories about it, we need to accept what the citizens have decided. If there isn't a referendum, there's no fight again, there's no evil blood for it. But that threshold defines state legislation, not any international legal act or international law. I said today, find that one, and I'll eat that rule of law if you find him somewhere in the world. And I don't know what else you're about... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] One more thing, the rights acquired in domestic legislation after the signing of the accession contract can be seriously discussed. No international legal act may be awarded to legislation, the development of legislation, the abolition, development, changes, additions, etc. Forget about it. I'm telling you this as a lawyer, and I know what I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85397	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85398	Dear fellow Filipovic, you have now said in one of your replicas that probably the Constitutional Court will request, a stenogram or a phonogram of this debate will probably be interested in what we discussed. Let's say so. You said you brought your judgment on this and today's debate and on the matter of referendum. You see, it's very illogical. You have the right to your judgment which I am fully, firstly who I am to give or deny, I agree with that opinion because I am asking for that right. But the only right anyone who doesn't has is the Croatian Parliament. You have as a parliamentary representative, I as a parliamentary representative have, but the Croatian Parliament and most have no right. So let me know by which one, tell me the Rules of Procedure, law or practice that most of them have no right if they say so, so Parliament has the right to call a referendum if they don't doubt the referendum issue. If he suspects, then he should be sent to the Constitutional Court for verification. So he can't send a murky letter in which he won't explain what he suspects to be on 10, 5 pages or 500 pages. Your argument falls into the water, the most important argument. Today, all we had to discuss today was whether we were going to send it or not. Therefore, with what argument do you give to me and you, but you do not give rights to the majority and to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85399	Replica response, respected representative Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85400	Therefore, it is prescribed, therefore, that regulations not by my or your wish that the Croatian Parliament as the largest legislative body can decide on the calling of a referendum. And if it is passed and the referendum takes place in realisation, there is still a constitutional law that the Constitutional Court is entitled to oversee the process of implementing the referendum. But the Parliament can't say there won't be a referendum. He couldn't even say that to the Constitution Committee where I'm sitting, and that's where the president of the Committee sits. Therefore, there are no qualifications on hazards, pests and inadmissibility. That's, Wait a minute. [[Intruder: These are the opinions of the majority.]] These are the opinions of the majority who went as a follow-up part of the reasoning with a decision, but it is an attempt to pressure the public, an attempt to pressure the Constitutional Court. I said in my debate that the Constitutional Court couldn't fascinate it. So, the Constitutional Court will have, will act by its own rules and there are rules in the work of the Constitutional Court. I don't know what you asked me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85401	We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85402	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a lot of what's been said today, and the things that must have offered this long-term debate today come from the government's claims and that the referendum will not be about this issue. Likewise, the matter of a referendum is not allowed to be written by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, believing that the call for a referendum on the proposed referendum issues is not allowed. And I think it's precedent and that the Constitutional Court is already imposing that their conclusion should be read. And that's why it's all this. And then when we realize that we have requested the signing of 1/3 of the conclusions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to undertake and take all the measures envisaged by law for the consistent application of Article 8. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and the delay of the application of the law referred to in Article 7(1). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and on the establishment of bilingual inscriptions. And that moratorium that would be up to the next census would clearly solve all these doubts, dilemmas as well as misunderstandings. Perhaps for some who did not participate in aggression, insults for those who did not bleed their hands. But we must say with certainty that, as well as the good knowers of the opportunity in Vukovar, the census of the population of Serbian nationality in Vukovar has recently increased and so there have been 34%. Although credible documents have been passed, presented to the police and the Croatian Parliament as much as I am informed of those who are resident in Vukovar, and serve long-term penalties for various crimes and then took the initiative, so the police are the twenty that have been chosen at random and for which the documents were credible deleted in police stations. However, they remained on the lists in the Offices of State Administration. How is it possible for two state institutions to delete one of them, and the other leaves them only because there are others on the list more. That's where the bush also lies a rabbit, a rabbit that hasn't been caught and who doesn't want to get caught. But the other rabbit that ran to Vrgorec was cleaned by hunters. There the hunters came and wiped out all the Herzegians who were on the list, and they don't have a residence so that they might win the SDP in Vrgorec. Well, I think it's real! What are the standards and criteria? At one address, I will say at one address when you have 25 people of Serbian nationality, at one address, and the house is not yet completed. And so I think who could reasonably be in the interest of not checking it out, not erasing it and putting it in the framework of laws that are positive in the Republic of Croatia. And because of this knowledge, as well as because of the lack of understanding of the government, because of your boast, and also because of your once laughing Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that you defaminate this debate that has its course, regardless of what is said, you have also received evidence of who is on the list in Vukovar. You got 'em. How did you react? You know how to react. It's a question of all the questions. And you should be the greatest among the equals and the one who will measurely decide the law, the Constitution and everything else. However, democratic practice in this Croatian Parliament is indeed a theater and it is just an illusion of democracy and parliamentaryity. It is an assumption that we are raping something that could have been delayed at least as I said by the next census when it would definitely be reasonable, clean, truly established by the number of people of Serbian nationality in Vukovar. And let him remain in the law of the moratorium for the sake of the victim. It could also have been delayed due to the victim until everyone was discovered, decently buried and Croatian nationality and Serbian. When all this process is completed in the Republic of Croatia, it shall be complete application and consistent application and Article 8. Although this article 8 has its doubts and is constantly trying to interpret it only in a way that corresponds to the current government. Respect for members of national minorities in this Article 8 is, it stands and has rights, but the Croatian people are also right. The development of understanding, solidarity, tolerance, dialogue among them is a matter of all issues which will not be addressed by such a clear conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution and its President. Sure, be assured. By who knows which time he has already been disastrously wrong in the perception and presentation of the Constitution and constitutional laws, so I believe this time too. I'm not sure, they'll decide to believe the Constitutional Court fair and square. We will respect the Constitutional Court's decision but be assured of the associations and all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have joined this time will be in an even greater number with another issue that will be constitutional, which no one will be able to interpret against the constitution and we will again gather signatures and again be on the defender of the truth by appealing that we are not wasting any time, no nerve, no money, no insult to each other and that in a democratic spirit of debate which is many times forbidden. It's forbidden here on my board by the dictatorship of the party. The Vice-President of the Sabo Committee opposed the vote of the agenda that the agenda item on these issues is not a place on the Committee on War Veterans. I personally wrote to you Mr. President about this event, you didn't answer anything. Is that democratic? Is that business? Is that okay with most of you taking your pride off the agenda? Well, we're just people who can tell each other and look into each other's eyes, I guess. Who we can discuss all questions no matter how many we are sent to the law, to the Constitution, opportunities, troubles, suffering, feelings, and everything else. It's necessary to discuss. Well, it's the committees that are supposed to be under quotes and we see more and more that they're actually just wasting time in this House, they're wasting money on this people, they're worthless by the new Rules of Procedure because their decisions that are against are worth nothing, the debate goes on, most of them decide and there's no democratic principles, there's nothing. It should at least be that for the next 3 months or 6 months when the board decides not to agree to some bill not to be discussed. At least that would be the time when opinions would be crystallized, if a new way was found and not a point so important from the agenda. And you, as President of the Parliament, have not answered that. It's a precedent in democracy. But here's the thing about you. That tells us all about your haughtiness. O defiance of those who command. Who order you to do so. But the people will change all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85403	Time's up, dear colleague. ... Well, I'm sorry I can't answer him, and I'm sorry I can't answer him, I'm sorry. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, and I wanted to answer him, but I'm not gonna answer you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have one replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85404	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I'll talk to my colleague, Djakic. You mentioned the rabbit in your presentation, and in which bush lies the rabbit, you talked about the census, the list of voters in the Republic of Croatia. In that context, you mentioned Vrgorac. And you said that because of the unsettled list of voters in Vrgorec because of the large number of Croatian citizens who have a fictitious residence in Vrgorec were on the list, and indeed live in BiH, it enabled the HDZ candidate to win the Vrgorec elections. So I'll remind you that during so-called. The 2009 "unsettled" list of voters in Vrgorec won the HDZ candidate by one vote by his opponent. And after the SDP took out the list of voters in Vrgorec and wiped out about 400 so-called. Vrgorac's "fictional" residents who do not live in Vrgorec won 65% in the first round. So here's the list of voters in Vrgorec that showed how many and in what way the list of voters is unsettled. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85405	The reply to the replica, Honored Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85406	Thank you, colleague Bacic. You're fine. You reminded me, actually, I didn't mention everything. If we were to settle the list in Vukovar, there would be nearly 7,000 fewer of those who exercise these national rights under the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Equally so I believe that somewhere around 1500 Croats would be less in Vukovar. The real list would say something else and probably our candidate would win by 65% as well as in Vrgorec as in Vukovar. You'd never probably win then, Sabo. I hope that these lists of voters and this reality of Croatia must once come to a cleanup so that they really know how many voters we have, how many residents we have, and that it can somehow be harmonised because there can't really be 8 thousand in one city more than there are, they can't be fictitiously reported. This is impossible, and if we apply positive regulations, then we need to clear these lists, know what is available, and thus we probably wouldn't need to have this whole day's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85407	The last debate on this agenda point, the esteemed Zeljko Sabo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85408	Thank you, Vice President. I just thought that here's how I was last in this discussion on this agenda point to admit to the Croatian public that it's all my fault as former mayor, that I'm guilty of this debate, which, in principle, won't solve anything on any issue. And then in a certain way he stayed confused. I just wanted to remind you that I probably caused my decision as mayor by respecting the law and the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, when the Statute of the City of Vukovar was changed and when I proposed in the Statute that the official language in the City of Vukovar would be Croatian and Latin, and when there was no speech in my proposal to apply bilingualism in that Statute and when the HDZ, together with the SDSS and HSP, adopted the second Statute where it deleted the article, that in the City of Vukovar, the official language, the Croatian letter and the Latin letter and introduced the possibility, that is, to introduce the constitutional possibility of bilingualism. At the time, I was not informed enough and educated as the new mayor that it was a positive step in the political options that they felt that it was possible to achieve this in Vukovar as in Istria, the Italian language or bilingualism in Istria, where there was not enough percentage of the national minority as it was then not in the City of Vukovar, sufficient percentage of the Serbian national minority because there were 32.89%. In this context, I vetoed the Statute as mayor and sent my decision to check the Statute of the City of Vukovar to the then Minister of Administration Mr. Mlakar. I waited almost two years for the answer, and I got the answer that I was right. Look, I guess that's where I made the mistake of not letting it, or putting that veto, which I didn't allow them to be bilingual tablets when HDZ decided to do it along with coalition partners to put the board on the Headship then or City Administration, on the streets and everything that was in that Statute at the time. And if it were then it would probably have been a whisper all normal and we would have made a big step in the process of peaceful reintegration but so I did and gave me Mr. Mlakar for the right to be right. However, today I have heard, and again I am mistaken, so I think maybe I don't know if I'm right or wrong, either I'm guilty or not guilty, but basically none of the MPs here have made it clear that they are opposed to Cyrillic as a letter in the City of Vukovar. No one has said that, we are all in a certain way happy to be resolved by the Constitutional Court, and there is now little politicizing and in any case we use criticism against the prime minister or the ruling majority or the Government of the Republic of Croatia for certain behaviour at a given time. I agree and can agree to be a good and quality, quality person who can manage conflicts that will show his quality and last longer. Obviously, we all have thoughts about how we should manage some conflicts and opinions of diversity but all of this in a certain way after time passes. So I could say you're all or we're all happy generals after the battle, analyze the battle and whether we've been involved enough since then. It has been very difficult for me since 2009 to manage the City of Vukovar and especially in 2012 after the publication of data from the State Statistics Office and when I felt what might be happening in the City of Vukovar. In a certain way, I tried to talk to the members of the defence associations and remind them of what was in 2009 when I was alone, when they told me and when they were abolized, in some way accepted the statute that was adopted at that time in 2009, that it was a clear order of the then Prime Minister Sanader and that they had a meeting with Mr. Cobankovic who transferred it and there was absolutely no need for the prime minister to come back to Vukovar to put out any kind of dissatisfaction. But that's why it was necessary later and there will always be one mystery whether I was wrong in 2009 or not. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure in 2012, '13. Well, even part of 2014, it wasn't an easy period of time, and believe me, I'm sure my health in a certain way was little and died because of this particular topic. But I don't regret a single day because I wanted the mayor of Vukovar not to manage conflicts, but to have peace, tolerance in the city of Vukovar, which is basically exactly what we always mention, some people, and especially when the first president is mentioned, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, when it suits us. And I read his speech that he gave in the city of Vukovar. And if everyone in a certain way could at least read that speech, then they would probably take that step, not in 2009, but who knows when and what year that step would be in the city of Vukovar. In any case, I would like to say that in 2012, I sent a clear memo and asked and suggested that a new census be implemented, one thing is to be a member of the electoral board or residence or residence, and one thing is the census. That's what people don't understand. We may not know a lot of what it is possible to sign up as a Croatian resident in a city, a residence or residence. That's not what Vukovars care about, but I'm in line and I've asked for that order to be introduced in the city of Vukovar. That we have a real picture of all the people who live in Vukovar and that the Vukovars, as counterpart Djakic says, decide absolutely on their town of Vukovar and decide who will be their mayor, who will be the city council, and what kind of city laws will be. Maybe it wouldn't be bad, no one remembered that the Vukovars in this matter were clear, perhaps after a new census or check, I don't know, but I did do a survey that with 48% of the Vukovars, they said that they were in favour of applying the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, but when before that the census was arranged, when they were convinced that this census was okay, correct, and that there were no Vukovars living in Vukovar, and they were listed as Vukovars. Therefore, I cannot now say whether I am guilty at this time and whether I am absolutely guilty of all these discussions, for all the discussions, for all the signatures of those, this effort, perhaps if I had done otherwise in 2009, there would be no, but let the Croatian public decide, and in any case I absolutely support the decision that the Constitutional Court will decide on this. But what I would like to know and what I would like to know, which is as a parliamentary representative, I would like to know when we will have laws that are not to be interpreted, which we will be able to clarify ourselves, and which will be clear to all? So I'd also like to hear, perhaps from the Constitutional Court, which means that the law or Article 8 also means to explain it to us because those who wrote it, they say, we had an opinion like this, today someone interprets it differently. I would absolutely like us to pass laws as parliamentary representatives who will be clear to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85409	I thank and conclude the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85410	Proposal for a decision on the occasion of a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative, Croatian Vukovar Defence Centre. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 95 votes in favour, 10 abstentions, have been decided on the basis of requests for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative, the Croatian Vukovar Defence Centre in the text as proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85411	We're moving on to the next point. It is - Final proposal for a law on amendments to the Air Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 694 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, esteemed Zdenko Antešić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act were primarily initiated in order to extend the period until 28 July of this year until which conditions were to be created and to transfer the jurisdiction to carry out the protection checks on passengers and their manual luggage to legal persons registered for the performance of those operations. However, as it is a process of exceptional sensitivity and importance for the protection of civil air traffic involving a whole range of entities such as the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Airport, legal persons registered for the performance of air operations, etc., it is proposed to extend the deadline until 26 March 2015, i.e. until the end of the winter season, in order to allow transition beyond the tourist season and the period of high traffic intensity. In addition, these amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act also govern the implementation of parachute jumps, the use and reflection of parachutes and parachutes, since it was not prescribed by the existing provisions of the law. Furthermore, the involvement of a pilot of sports recreational aircraft with aircraft personnel. Furthermore, the possibility of temporary or permanent withdrawal of the authorisation for the conduct of which air traffic safety is threatened, then the initiation of a misdemeanour against persons who commit an offence in civil air traffic by aircraft or aircraft registered in the Croatian Civil Aviation Register, as well as the clearer definition of a sports-recreative aircraft and aerospace events, and the authority of the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency for the submission of indictments as an authorised prosecutor of the issuing of an infringement order in the field of civil aviation, as well as the content of the Statute of the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency in the meaning of the internal organisation, i.e. principles for internal structure, types of internal... units etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85413	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labors respected Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85414	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Now, we've heard, although we heard it on the board, the real reason why this law goes into emergency procedure. Otherwise this argument that says here in this material that we've got, there's no real reason why it's like that anywhere. And the real reason is, in fact, Article 16(1), which prescribes a postponement of the delegation of the powers of the examination of passengers and luggage to a private security company. Interestingly, even in this part of the provisions of the applicable law that are being amended or supplemented, it does not even mention the real reason for these changes. I don't know if all the other reasons that the respected deputy minister mentioned are so important that they need to respect this emergency procedure, but it's obvious that the real problem in this private security company is. Now I'm asking myself a question, and I'm showing my suspicion, and I'd like one of you to have read this text by accident so that he might ask himself, or maybe he knows the answer to that question, whether it's the unpreparedness of a particular company that didn't have to prepare for what had to be prepared to do with this date, or whether it's something else. On the board we heard that all present have expressed doubts in general about the security sector which is in the Republic of Croatia in its order and its readiness for the seriousness of the taken-up business according to what is said here, so it would not surprise me, I cannot argue I have no evidence of it, I have nothing tangible but it would not honestly surprise me that today we find out that it was some type of security company like we had a partner for HZ Cargo some new Gruica just here from the area of the Republic. It also states that these amendments to the law, the possibility of abolishing a solution or another administrative act in cases of anti-applicable regulations. Now I wonder if this is aware that the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency has issued both solutions and other administrative acts, as it states here which do not comply with applicable regulations, which simply forces the fact that we are through the media and also in direct contact heard that there are very, very many objections to the work of this agency. Now, is this a way to get out of the problems we cooked ourselves elegantly, or is this perhaps a little ambiguous or insufficiently precise this part of the text? What bothers me more in that story is that we have to privatize everything. And now, for those who have not read this text, they are probably not dealing with this problem, but we will now hire security companies that will deal with certain airport operations that do not release our MUP or members of the MUP to be also at those airports and to do that part of the jobs that cannot be transferred to security companies. So now that part of the money that the airport essentially pays the MUP to do that job that they have to do, now we're going to share that same money with some security companies. I don't know if it's necessary, after all, the board members themselves, regardless of party membership, have also expressed doubts about the necessity of such a move, and the team before we are the only country in the EU that hasn't handled it that way. So there are still countries in the EU that have not transferred this to security companies in which the official police, or their MUP, are doing so. That this doubt is justified in the possibility of guessing, otherwise whenever this is the Ministry I suspect but I believe I am not the only one, I will remind you of my timely appointment of members of the Agency for the Research of Major Accidents in Air, Railway and Maritime Traffic. In this case, the three largest experts in Croatia appointed to the agency are from Ivanac and Zabok. I don't know if it's an accident because he's also a minister from that neighborhood, or if that's really where they go to school and train the biggest traffic experts. Also, even though it's not directly related to this subject, but as far as air traffic is concerned, I can't understand that we have such a need for all our airports to go to the concession. For what? There was not long a discussion here about the Report of the Competition Protection Agency, so we asked Brač Airport, big money was invested in insurance, and suddenly the state is getting out of these jobs. We have a situation that Rijeka airport, director or director of the airport first announces in 2014 that it will business with get going in concessions. We have an airport Osijek that had a symbolic yet 25 thousand kuna symbolic profit but also an increase in some enormous 1000% of traffic in that airport. But then again, within this ministry, we are so well organized that we close all the access roads to that airport that they would not accidentally achieve some positive results. So there's a reason if there's no reason we're going to create a reason for them to be in line with that decision that we have to put them in a concession. The Croatian Labour Party will be against this law and everything that I have stated but primarily because this really has no reason to go into an emergency procedure with an explanation that is not stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85415	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So one basic question arises whether this government can pass one law that will be applicable. Because nothing is disputed here if the government has decided that we have the exact same criteria and way of working on airport protection as it is in most airports in the world, if it has set a date, then the question is why has it not been implemented. The more this job has been done so far by cops. Well, isn't it logical that someone should have asked her what would happen to those people? Where will they go, will they move to these security companies who will or if they stay in the MUP where the MUP will be with them. Well, it's not about two people. And now, once again, the application is practically the last day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we are passing an emergency procedure of a law extending that deadline for all these smaller airports to adapt and the largest airport to be adjusted. For several months now, Zagreb has a private company that has been protecting and controlling itself. However, one question is raised here, is it not logical if the Government or someone who has already conducted the competition or who has ordered that a tender be conducted to set a time limit for all airport managers and, in practice, other than the airport in Zagreb managed by the French, all other airports are under direct authority from the Government. And now look what's going on. Where the Government is not the owner, so where someone else manages, they have conducted the competition neatly, about it later on I will say the conditions, etc., how much more is paid now, but it doesn't matter, according to the positive regulations they carried out the competition, they gave the job to a private company and for several months already at the Zagreb airport this job is done by a security company. But very interestingly, the companies in which the government appointed its management presidents, in which the government has its presidents and members of the supervisory board of the company did not carry out the job. Now the question is, is there anyone responsible here? Because if the deputy minister had said one valid reason why this job could not be completed at other airports and at the airport Zagreb was made then a man would understand. What do we have now? The control at the airport Zagreb is being carried out by a private security company and in all other airports in Croatia, the Croatian police are still doing so. Well, isn't that funny? On the other hand, this clearly shows the effectiveness of this government. Nothing else. Or maybe it was the same outsourcing program the government gave up on, so now they're going to build a Spin off company so it won't be a private security company anymore, but these protection and control services will be established, a new company to which all these will be transferred together. So again in the late evenings, you want to push one point of the agenda, after all, you're going to adopt it that just doesn't have anything to do with common sense. Is it since the law, if I'm not mistaken in the last two years, has been changed three times, have we, during the last changes, or when we've already passed a provision in the law that the police will no longer do so but private companies, did the minister go too far as he did in a number of other things? And in the end, all of his very benevolent and sophistication proved to be a failure in the whole story. Apparently, he made a mistake here, too, obviously. He didn't get the job done again, he still couldn't get those who were supposed to make that job do it. But no, we're talking about Split Airport, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Pula, Rijeka, all of these smaller Croatian police officers are still there. The truth is that in the airport of Zagreb, the services charged by this company which now provides protection are increased per passenger for the reason that actual costs are now being charged and someone has to pay them, they must be paid by the airport, and so far it has all been part of the costs of the Police. I don't know if the Croatian police even invoiced it at airports. In fact, these people were getting money from the budget as all the other cops were getting and in that overall systemization that I say the Ministry of the Interior were among other things people who needed to do the job. Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, it would be a logical thing to do when this law was amended if the law had been amended and amended, in fact, the Internal Design Regulation, and the amendment of the Government Act where the structure of the Ministry of the Interior is, where simply those jobs that provide for airport protection organisations would have disappeared, and for that amount should be reduced to the state budget, or those people should be redistributed to something else. Since neither, nor the other, nor the third, this merely indicates that budget funds are being used irrationally. Because look, colleagues and colleagues, if in one law it was said that from that date the police officers would no longer do the job, the Minister of the Interior should not have made sure to actually ask the Ministry of Finance to provide him with the funds for those people's salaries. Why, because these people don't do that job anymore by the end of the year. And if we were to strictly comply with the Budget Law and the Fiscal Responsibility Act now, then someone here has made terrible mistakes, but at the same time those who know on this side of the Parliament are holding a lot of lessons, no one is going to talk about it today. But we are where we are, so obviously one technical decision that the HDZ club would surely support, but this sloppyness and the cremation of the Croatian government that was unable to conduct the tender simply cannot be supported and this law is just a picture and opportunity of this government. This law is only an indication that this government refers to the budget, as this government refers to taxpayers' money and this law is just another proof that one seemingly technical transaction this government is unable to do. Then you can ask your colleagues and colleagues, in fact you get an automatic answer why this 2.5 year has practically failed any reforms. And then you're forced simply by what the World Bank leader said, that it's true, and because of that truth, we can't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85417	Thank you. We have three replicas. First Ante Jerolimov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85418	Comrade Shucker, you've well explained the full law and you've wondered if the government will pass one law that will be applicable. I think you know that the answer itself is difficult to apply, or it will be applicable, but it will not be applied immediately but after a few years because a few changes and additions will go with the shift in time. As it is incomprehensible that in this law for three years it was not enough to put everything on its own but they need it after the tourist season when there is no traffic, as the deputy, assistant minister, said, and the 3rd month is the deadline, means not after the tourist season but we will arrive again before the tourist new season. But you were also talking about the ongoing competition at the Airport of Pleso and how it is possible and who sets out such conditions of competitions that cannot be satisfied by the state-owned security company, in this particular case, which was at Dance AKD protection, but rather foreign corporations or domestic companies, but is the owner of foreign corporations, for the reason that in the terms of the tender it is necessary to deliver five certificates of the same or similar jobs carried out in the last 3 years. Of course, domestic security guards have not been trained since they have not had the opportunity to compete for these jobs... to work and of course they can not compete in such competitions and that last year it was written in the daily press that our companies will not be able to meet such competitions and that they will certainly receive such competitions. Is this a coincidence, and is this how the competitiveness and rentability of state-owned companies is taken into account?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85419	Answer, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85420	Well, fellow Jerolimov, you've basically touched the right things. Indeed, a foreign company has got a job, but for this side of the company is working five Croatian security companies. Now under the cover that it must have experience this foreign company has experience, but technical work is done by people who haven't been to that foreign company. I am glad that this job is done by Croatian companies, that the work is done by Croatian security guards, but I am not glad that the cream from that cake will end in Sweden. Because if the competition had been different, and it could have been agreed otherwise only to determine the conditions and the people doing the job since probably one part of the police would have moved into these companies, then Croatian companies would have met these technical conditions and Croatian companies could have made their own consortium, won the job and probably that price would have been lower and that cream would have remained in Croatia. But so much for taking care of Croatian money as it is public and transparent. Sincerely speaking to Croatian citizens from this transparency already hurts and the head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85421	Another replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85422	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, you're wondering where the cops are going. Well, here's another one of us after this one. We've got a credible interpretation of the Police Act, and it's likely that even by that credible interpretation they might be moved somewhere, of course. The problem is that here we are in the second year, in fact two and a half years already changing this law for the third time. Watch out, three times. We almost don't have a law that we haven't discussed two, three, four times. It's just a picture and an opportunity of a government that simply leaves the methods of experimentation and error constantly with the feeling that reforms are happening, and we're not going anywhere. We're not going to sea, we're not going to the road, we're not going to the air, we're not going to the railroad, we're not going anywhere. So look what's going on? Train Zagreb – Split runs out of fuel, 9 hours travel until the fuel arrives and they move it. Jadrolinier's director buys the most expensive car, orders what was on the market, the most expensive. Well, then a little public, then give it up. Four ferry, two done, two waiting. Where's that going on which lines? I don't know. The minister says I don't care what lines are cut in the railroad. Airports at the cost-effectiveness border. Look at the profits of public companies, halved from last year. We just don't even know if it's the Ministry of Transport, the infrastructure's moving at all. We have a feeling that it's a heavy inert, kind of self-inflicted, so when something happens, we do a little repair and a little bit by little, the Mic by mic the fourth year is close, and then after where my loved ones are as well as with this story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85423	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85424	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, if we add to this the privatisation of HZ Carg, if we add the monetization or cashing of roads, if we add the modernisation of HZ, we'll see that everything stands. But there's something else. On a proposal from the same minister, this Parliament passed a law in which the 60 pieces of Croatian highways are divided, goes to 20 June Croatian roads, 20 June HZ, and the Croatian highways remain only 20 out of 60 June, or who is someone, not who they are, but who has been taken at an annual level over 800 million kunas. He's a colleague of Boric's, but at 30.6. Croatian highways had to return an annuity of billions and 200 million kuna. They couldn't get credit because the banks couldn't give them that loan, they had to get information from Brussels, they actually confirmed from Brussels whether the State aid guarantee or the State guarantee was not support. 30.6 paid for it. Now the question arises which exhibition was in the public and transparent management of state finances, i.e. how it was paid out of the state budget or otherwise, and that no one knew anything about it. Very interesting. But you see, fellow Boric, that someone did not run in front of the ore but waited for all these processes to be carried out, so that Croatia's roads neatly, highways picked up those 40 lipes neatly, probably wouldn't have such problems. But since they came into a situation in which Croatian banks came, regardless of the state's guarantee, they did not dare to lend them credit, but they directly because the state did not ask for an opinion from Brussels. But the 30.6 came, someone had to pay for that annuity. He's been paid, and now the question is being asked. how and from where. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85425	The last replica of the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85426	Thank you. Well, fellow Shuker, here I am going to be very brief. You asked whether the MUP was charging its services, or whether the airport was paying anything to the MUP on their business at the airport. I don't know, but that's why I know that the MUP had to pay neatly for the use of the space that its members or members of the MUP used during their work. I guess that's nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85427	Answer Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85428	Yes, colleague Novak, it's very interesting, because this way of operating airports has practically remained out of the former system and no one has seen anyone come here when they call the competition if I'm paying him something, then he has to come with his equipment. So he had to buy that equipment from the state, and not the state left him the equipment, this one got his men up, raised by 40, 50% per passenger. It's an international flight that collects one 65 kuna, and on a domestic flight, one 50 kuna and nothing. Very interesting! Nothing to anyone. Now there's one question that you came from Sweden and made an offer for a job like that. Would you like to know that all these equipment will remain for use is quite interesting that you can give a lower price than some domestic bidders, as well as some domestic security companies. But I'm saying, lucky for these strangers, they're going to work for domestic security companies. It's the only luck. So, Croatian people will work, people from Croatian security houses. We won't have strangers working. But I repeat, these people will get a lower salary, because a stranger has to charge this part of his story. But the Croatian state did not charge for this equipment it has or may have, but we never got that information. It had to be seen somewhere, but it's what it is. But it is very interesting that in about half an hour, we will discuss the credibility of what the Croatian courts have ruled, and as far as Croatian police officers are concerned, and in the past 10 years these people have been suspended several times and have always, each time they have received a judicial dispute. And it never occurred to any government to ask for a credible interpretation of certain articles, i.e. That these men may not pay what is theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85429	I thank and conclude the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85430	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No., I don't have a number there, 694. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. One. I ask the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Honorable Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, to show himself about the amendment of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85431	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85432	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour and 21 votes against the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85433	We're moving on to the next point. This is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 693; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The managers of public and unclassified roads in the Republic of Croatia face an unsettled land-based and catastrian road condition. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Road laws prescribe a way of enrolling in land books and public road cadasters as a public good in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia, as well as the same as lex specialis dictate the provisions of other laws in this area that are contrary to them. Article 123. The Law on Roads provides for the entry into the land books for public roads registered in the catastro and, in particular, the procedures are clear and there is no problem in the application of the article in question. The problem arises in the application of Article 124. The laws on roads and the resolution of public roads which are not recorded in the catastro or in the grantovnica and unfortunately there are many. In the interpretation of this article, the courts held the view that real estate was first recorded in the cataster and then in the grantovnica. If the first registration is carried out in the catastro before the implementation of the land books, then the bodies of the cadastar and the grantovnica shall issue each solution and deliver it to the parties and the possibility of making a complaint twice over the same matter. Once in the catastra, and for the second time in the land-booking process, the whole registration procedure is significantly delayed. These proposed amendments to the law would aim to enable parties to declare a complaint in the ZK procedure in the court and then to provide a fair land-book solution to the cataster in order to register changes in the cadastrian operation in an irregular procedure and thereby significantly speed up the process of fixing the ZK and the cadastrian situation, while also costing the procedure because the State Geodetic Administration would not carry out the administrative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85435	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85436	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. So here I'm going to be brief, all of these reasons that the esteemed deputy stands, with everything I can agree with, but the fact is that we've changed this law a few times, that two and a half years ago this authority is already in that position that you have in your ranks the mayors and the mayors who have met this problem and who know very well what this means and now the last day practically before this break, we're discussing this law by emergency procedure. It's the only remark. And I don't really see why, but basically all the laws, I don't remember any exceptions especially from this ministry, that solutions like this are in a few articles that must always be in emergency procedure. And I think this is already a real degradation of this High House with, among other things, this kind of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85437	In the name of the HDZ Club, the respected Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy, Your Honor, So I have to say that Mr. Novak, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, is right, not only in the area where it is said about the urgency of changing this law, but it is also necessary to say that in the past year this law, this is the fourth change of the Roads Act. So, in the year four times, we change the law by emergency procedure instead of the law going into a regular procedure where these changes could have been made. And the changes that followed before them, for example the last amendment to the Roads Act, was in December last year when what counterpart Shucker, in his replica, responded in his reply to the replica about the change in which Croatian highways were paid for the purchase of fuel of 60 limes in three parts, and of which 20 drops of HAC, 20 limes to Croatian railways and 20 limes to Croatian roads. But let me get back to this shift. So, if we are from the opening presentation of Mr. Deputy Minister well heard here it is about the problems which managers of any public roads, any unclassified roads have when entering public roads in the land book and, according to counterpart Antesic, this change comes because of the problems they face because of the unsettled catastra and land book. This is only partly true because this amendment to the law applies only to those public roads or to unclassified roads in the Republic of Croatia which are not recorded in a cataster or in a land book. However, the same procedure is also followed by those public roads recorded in the cataster and the land book. This is about the fact that the State Geodetic Administration, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Municipal Courts want to transfer this hot potato that this Law on Public Roads has assigned to them, to each other. Therefore, the position of the State Geodetic Administration is that public roads should be registered in the land book, the position of the State Geodetic Administration was to be guided through a land-based procedure where municipal courts were based on the registration list to register public roads in the land-book, and the position of the Municipal Courts in Croatia was that, that this law could be interpreted in a way that those roads which did not, public roads which were not recorded in the catastroy should first be recorded in the cadastre, to carry out administrative proceedings through the cadastre and then to submit to the land-based book where the municipal courts would then implement such public roads in the land-based register that came from the catastra. It has already been mentioned on several occasions tonight and the government's request has been announced, the government's proposal to discuss the Police Law in a way that the Parliament gives a credible interpretation of the law. In my opinion, if such an attitude was taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to interpret through credible interpretations of the law of justice certain actions that took place in the Ministry of the Interior, then where and where... right through the credible interpretation of this Roads Act to prescribe the procedure, or to determine what the legislator was intending to do when he passed this law in 2011 through the recording of the reported roads in the land book and the real estate disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not with this amendment to the law that was not necessary in my opinion, but through the interpretation of the legislator, it could be said that the registration of public roads in land books and the cataster of real estate had not been recorded in the manner that it had prescribed the amendment of this law itself. Therefore, this way of enrolling public roads and unclassified roads in the cadastre and land book was established by the Law on Public Roads of 2011 and significantly simplified and enabled public road managers as well as units of local self-government that could not register roads, there were also non-classified roads, enrolling in the cataster and land book and thus more easily manage the roads themselves that are owned by them. So here I am speaking for us at the Croatian Democratic Community club it is unacceptable that this law is changed four times in a year with such small changes rather than being systematically regulated by the law itself in the part that life involves when it comes to building public roads and registering them in the cataster and the land book. I say more to the team what we are here, that in half an hour, we will likely discuss another law which, through the authentic interpretation of the Croatian Parliament, is the same, if the Government wanted it to be credible, could be dealt with by this law without this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85439	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow. I thank the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85440	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 693. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the Proposer, Honored Minister Hajdas Doncic to make a statement on the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85441	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85442	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 102 votes to pass the law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85443	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - The proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the Nature Park Medvednica. The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, as well as by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yes, the Honorable Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85444	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a spatial plan of Nature Park Medvednica. After many long, long years here we have the opportunity to talk about this spatial plan in front of this distinguished home. In 2003, it started with a spatial plan, in 2005 there was a public debate at the time that the coverage of this spatial plan was slightly less than 23 thousand hectares and about 33,400 inhabitants lived in the area. This public debate, which was very heated in 2005, lasted a long time and the result of this public debate was that this spatial plan was not going further into its procedure but to be launched and a request was launched to change the border of Medvednica Nature Park. The borders have also been changed since 2009, with new borders, so the scope of the now spatial plan of Nature Park Medvednica is just over 17,000 hectares and there live 7400 inhabitants. It covers the area of the City of Zagreb and the area of two counties, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska. When it comes to Zagreb, then it is the territory, parts of the territory of the town of Zapresić and the municipalities of Bistra and Jakovlje and, when it comes to Krapina-Zagorje County, it is then parts of the territory of the town of Donja Stubica, the municipality of Stubičke spa, Gornja stubica and Marija Bistrica. Since a number of legislative frameworks have been changed since 2003, with the exception of the borders, a number of legislative frameworks have been launched, in 2012, a whole new basis has been created for the protection of cultural and natural heritage and from mid-February to mid-March of this year, and a spatial plan is being held before us. When it comes to the sustainable development of any space, parts of the country show exactly what this spatial plan means and what it assumes is the sustainable development of this space. It discusses the preservation of natural integrity, landscape features, improvement of natural ecological, scientific educational, excursion activities of the park, then taking care of the sensitivity of space and permitted burdens, improving the availability of infrastructure, increasing the quality of services that are primarily excursions, mountaineering and educational functions as primary functions in the field of visitation and systematic monitoring of occurrences and processes. The park is divided into two parts, a narrow area of nature park which includes the entire forest natural area of Medvednica, an area of approximately 78% and an access zone that includes agricultural areas and areas outside the entire forest area and the area of the settlement, so that is about 22% of the park. What is about Medvednica is a space that has great importance for the city of Zagreb. Therefore, the importance for the city of Zagreb means that Medvednica is in a certain part and in a certain way in the memory of Zagreb, i.e. in some mental maps it represents a space for the recovery of spirit and body, so that through this spatial plan, through the use of space it takes care of it. In particular, I may stress the fact that there is a... first treatment facility for pulmonary diseases in these areas and this spatial plan allows for the reconstruction of this area. Likewise, those who remember, there were also a number of other tourist facilities and catering facilities. The plan is structured in a way that all that is reconstructed in existing gauges with clearly defined purposes and has clear implementation of the provisions on this spatial plan. However, we also have two zones, i.e. two areas for which it is concluded that detailed analysis and detailed consideration are needed and therefore two urban planning arrangements provided for in this spatial plan. These two urban plans are of national importance. When we spoke and when there was a new Law on Spatial Planning before this respected House, we also talked about the urban plans of state importance and said that for the first time we would have the next situation in the legislation. If we had that when Parliament brings up a spatial plan, and it's about the spatial plans of the state level, then we have the possibility that the urban plan of state importance regulation will bring about the government. And it's about two urban plans, one called a ski complex, and the other called a high-level zone. When it comes to the peak zone, the provision of Article 141 clearly defines all the provisions that may be in the peak zone, it is about the cableway, the use of this space, and the replacement of the lawless, i.e. we have a lot of illegal objects that use different ski alliances, so their removal and possible construction of a new facility, and when it comes to the ski complex, then the conditions through Article 142 of this spatial plan are defined clear conditions and ways that can be through these urban plans. The basis for one and another urban plan, when it comes to the ski complex and when it comes to the peak zone, is a strategic environmental impact assessment. Therefore, the parallel process of strategic environmental impact assessment and parallel spatial planning procedure. So, in front of you is the spatial plan of Nature Park Medvednica which defined the conditions and methods of use, defined the natural characteristics, characteristics of the aspect of cultural heritage protection, defined the way of use and opened the possibility that the systematic arrangement of the Medvednica space would be reduced through the next period of the vehicle to the minimum possible extent, and that the right system of visiting this park would be through the cable system and therefore I talked about this urban plan of the peak zone. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85445	I thank the minister. We have two replicas. First Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, if I am not mistaken, it seems to me that for the first time since the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and when we are discussing the spatial plan of Nature Park, which sets out the obligation to create an urban plan of state importance, in this case, as you yourself have said, the highest names of the ski complex as well. My replica comes down to when we brought to the Government's proposal in the Croatian Assembly the Law on Spatial Planning, that I was then saying what I will now confirm, and what you said in a certain way in your presentation. You said this spatial plan has great importance for the city of Zagreb, and I absolutely agree with you, however, the urban planning of the arrangement, so as an implementation document will bring the government of the Republic of Croatia for two urban planning arrangements, so for the peak zone and for the ski complex. This confirms what I was saying when we adopted the Law on Spatial Planning, that the new bill, or the adopted law on spatial regulation, significantly reduces the powers of the unit of local self-government. In this case, the city of Zagreb will adopt and bring the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Whether or not it is a reduction of the authority of the local self-government unit will be judged by the citizens of the city of Zagreb, or the council of the town hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85447	The replica matches Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85448	Thank you very much. When it comes to ski resorts, the ski resort is not in the area of Zagreb, but in the area of Krapina-Zagorska County, so that if it were the model, then it should change the spatial plan of the Krapina-Zagorska County, behind it a spatial plan... in whose area it is and then bring urban planning. So when she was in the debate, when she was in the discussion of the Law on Spatial Planning, then we talked a lot about it and the view that for a state plan for 8 spaces that are national parks, 11 spaces that are parks of nature that should, however, when it comes to the roof plan, discuss the Parliament, and when it comes to urban plans... of exceptional importance for the space of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85449	Second replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, it's nice to see you in the House, unlike some other ministers. You've come to the Parliament to explain here the proposal and I really commend it. Here are 22.00 hours tonight and in that sense I commend you. All I'm gonna get is what my colleague Bacic was saying. I do not know if you are familiar with the European Court of Human Rights rulings in just one case in Slovakia, where the government of the Slovak State wanted to avoid the units of local self-government making spatial plans for large investments, I would say in a similar procedure because the court decided that it was completely inappropriate to act, so it avoided local self-government in the adoption of a spatial plan, which concerned certain units of local self-government and regional so both municipalities and regions in Slovakia. And he ruled in a way that the law is not in line with the European acquis and that there should be a very well-involved local community in making any spatial plan, as well as spatial plans concerning large investments, investments for which certain governments have priorities and which want to support in some way and as much as possible to speed up. So I do not know if you are familiar with these decisions, but be assured that there is a possibility that our civil society associations as well as certain parties in the process appeal to these actions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to European courts. And I'm pretty sure I'm based on the decisions they've made so far that they'll get it. And another appeal, please, you were talking about illegal objects, remove these illegal antennas in Dubrovnik it is indeed, you have a solution from 2011 people get sick. 21 base stations on the building in the middle of the settlement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85451	Time. The replica corresponds to the respected minister of construction and spatial arrangement Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85452	Thank you very much. I'm really here for the simple reason, I'm a space planner by walk-in, and I'm hardly gonna have any spatial plan in front of this esteemed House without being present because that's the part of the job that makes me extremely happy. But to go back to judgment. Yes, there is indeed such a verdict, but such a verdict exists because there was no public debate. So without a public hearing, it was. As you have the opportunity to see from this material public debate on this spatial plan for 30 days was in the area of both the county and the city of Zagreb, as well as public debate on the urban planning of the arrangements for 30 days will be in the area where this urban planning is happening and there will be opportunities for the public to participate, participate and to make their remarks. Likewise, I may be using these late hours to mention one more thing, all procedures that are of national importance, all procedures that pass the strategic environmental impact assessment and all procedures that are assessed from the aspect of the natural heritage or nature protection assessed very sensitive we have a duty of 30 days of such local and construction permits to have published on the Ministry's website. So there are a number of EU directives that we absolutely respect, but this verdict was applied without a public debate, without the public participation of the government. In this case, it will not be the case, the law clearly says there is a public debate going on. The public debate must be where the procedure is taking place, the public debate will also be on the strategic environmental impact assessment and urban planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85453	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the name of the HNS club will be spoken by the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85454	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. The HNS Club will surely support this proposal because we believe that this is the right time, regardless of what some committees have said, that it has come too late. Perhaps too late in view of the procedure for the adoption of this spatial plan because the procedure for the adoption of this plan has been going on since 2005. In the process of adopting the Space Plan of Nature Park Medvednica, there have been significant changes from the very beginning, since the zone covers the first purpose, in the size of 22,826 hectares with 33,400 inhabitants, and now in the final proposal it comes to a space of 17,938 hectares and a space of coverage of 7,400 people. What is important for this spatial plan of Nature Park Medvednica that this space lives on life from some 13th century and numerous cultural sights... already during that time. What is also important is that in this space the human hand or the use of the profession has been carried out since 1877, that for the first time the first economic basis is made for the use of the forest and cutting down the forest and that we think it is good and that this culture of preservation of this space exists for a very, very long time. Also why we at the HNS club support the adoption of all spatial plans and national parks and nature parks because we believe that this is the best way to protect and protect and protect and of natural and cultural values and that only in such a way can we manage well and preserve the environment and everything else. Why is it important that we bring in the Space Plan of Nature Park Medvednica? Just because it's a basic document, for all the other documents that need to come after that, because the spatial plan is the basis of urban planning by editing. What is also important is that with the spatial plan of Nature Park Medvednica we define exactly how to use the arrangements and protection of space and in fact which is the basis for managing the nature park and preserving its values. What is important for this spatial plan is specifically addressed and particularly good quality solves the preservation and preservation of natural values. It also puts into context the settlements and the population and what exactly this spatial plan says is that the population living in Medvednica Nature Park is essentially the part that increases its value. This spatial plan also deals in detail and clearly with the economy and where all those economic activities from tourism and other activities cannot endanger the balance in nature park. What this spatial plan says is that those objects that have had their purpose throughout history, and here I'm saying certainly mentions the Center for Pulmonary Patients for TBC, tuberculosis, for treatment due to both pine forests and everything, that space covering can only be that space of coverage that used to be... So that's what's being taken care of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is also important in this spatial plan is precisely defined by the strict protection of this area, which refers to all the sources, all the top currents as well as the Veternica cave in which it dwells or lives 21 types of bats are special and protected. I think this spatial plan has been created seriously, very thoroughly and that almost every protected cultural object is in a way that can be reconstructed and which materials can be used. This spatial plan also mentions the materials that are in use, also the way architecture with hair roofs and these are the basic materials used are wood and stone. What's important in this spatial plan is to mention the particularly protected properties of the plant species. Let's say in this space of 17 thousand 960 acres we have about 1346 seeds and let's say the whole of Great Britain totals 1600, which we consider to be this biological diversity very important, very important. What is also mentioned in this spatial plan and determined to say also the sights created by the action of the human factor and which should certainly be protected and preserved, and these are monuments of the park architecture, the landscape of the 18th century area, the Oršić castle in Gornja Gistra, and also the landscape of Golubveć from the 19th century in Donjo Stubica, the perivoj Junković 19th century, and are particularly attractive Horvat's pillars, a mountaineer who built the pillars in 1946 to '53. 500 stone pillars. Normally all mention is Medvedgrad fortification from the 13th century. And also what's newer is the cable car that was built in 1963 and all those projects that should be connected to the construction of a new cable car and which would drive from 330 to 1000 meters to the top of Sljemen. Mostly this spatial plan as a basic document will certainly support the Croatian People's Party club and we also expect with this dynamic and other spatial plans that are in our adoption phase. So we would have completely all the spatial plans of national parks and nature parks. I believe that this dynamic that has so far been certainly commendable, and I am convinced that this dynamic ministry will continue. What is important to conclude, I would say, is that the procedure for the adoption of this spatial plan is maximumly respected so that the final debate on the definitive proposal for this spatial plan is carried out from 10 February to 11 March 2014. There were also certain numbers and submissions and dissatisfactions, one part was accepted, one part was not accepted, but we at the Croatian People's Party club are convinced that this spatial plan lays the foundation for other activities which are facing the potential challenges of withdrawing funds from the European funds for putting into the quality function of this nature park. What is highlighted is greater in the replicas as well as in the introduction of Minister Mrak that this nature park is directly related to the city of Zagreb and the city of Zagreb of this nature park certainly has a great chance of development. And I believe it's both a great and a great deal of commitment and a great chance of withdrawing funds so that this bear under quotes would be even closer, even more quality. We will support this proposal of a spatial plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85455	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the esteemed Jasen Mesic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85456	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. So, as you said before us, after many years, the proposal for a decision to declare the Space Plan of Nature Park Medvednica. If, by any chance, tickets were charged in this nature park, which of course none of us would be too expensive, the citizens would certainly not, then they could find it very easy to find that it is the most visited area of natural protection in the Republic of Croatia. If we take the National Park Plitvice to visit just over a million visitors with bought tickets, surely the number of visitors to Medvednica Nature Park is higher. In this sense, the importance of adopting this spatial plan of Medvednica should also be observed, which is more of course located in the immediate hinterland of the city of Zagreb, and of course goes to the area of other municipalities and other cities, as you said two counties. Since your colleagues and you said that the first public debate started in 2005, that in 2009, we had a reduction in space covering, when actually that problematic construction along the northern edges of the city of Zagreb towards the Medvednica was excluded from the Space Plan of Medvednica Park, we can actually say that regardless of what the colleague was listing the question of cultural and historical heritage are actually two main points, and this is the issue of the arrangement... zone related to, we can say it openly probably a new project of cableways towards Sljeme, as well as a ski complex which should contain in itself the accumulation of water that would then be used for the snowing of ski trails. Now, if we continue to meet the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of funding from the European project funds in the Republic of Croatia almost every afternoon on the Zagreb stage slowly in the walk, you will be free of the Ministers for making a spatial plan that is actually a documentary basis for any European fund, the money for funding any project can be drawn. And you can do 42 changes to the spatial plan, a little better or a little worse, reduce, increase and work... as long as those in this government who are in charge of attracting funds from the European Union are going to behave, all of this and actually the main motive for this to go down in the water. As far as the issues of public debate are concerned, the accompanying materials show that the public debate was an extremely useful thing, that 635 remarks were recorded, which was an extremely large number of public debates a month ago. 635 comments, most of which are even respected or partially respected, and 192 of them are not respected. We'd be interested in who they are and what they're mostly about. Of course, the spatial plan is also some basis for managing a particular area, regardless of how nature parks have their own procedures by professional services and a public institution that manages a spatial plan, they have certain procedures to manage it. However, in many discussions on committees, the concern of colleagues and colleagues related to the possibility of a public institution called Medvednica, which is certainly named after some beast that no longer exists on Medvednica, may well be one day. But it is obvious that, in this sense, the Public Nature Park Medvednica will have to receive a certain logistics certificate. There's one of course monuments that we can say is that this is the most significant thing about this space, and that's the question of Medvedgrad. Medvedgrad collapses at least three points, on the entrance tower on the left and right and on the back behind the Oltar Homeland where the problem is in the static recovery. So one place that could attract a large number of guests, visitors, that I'm not saying that no infrastructure has been implemented, but in this Medvedgrad, and here's... a spatial plan that will allow for new investments, and at the same time we have an existing cultural pearl that we need, along with which we just have to intervene financially and professionally, to be one of the gathering zones. Here in the spatial plan is predicted how one can restore which home etc., etc., but unfortunately investments in this do not see but we open up opportunities for some new ones. From the professional point of view of the development of the plan, we cannot object to this, but as the main motive here, it lists exactly the realisation of the project that should be financed from the European Union funds, and we know how it goes to the Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Greek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85457	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished colleague Damir Mateljan will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I am going to be much shorter than my colleagues because a lot has been said before me. First of all, the SDP club will support the Proposal for a spatial plan of Nature Park Medvednica for a number of reasons. One of the most important reasons is that my colleagues mentioned before me the minister himself, which is that by adopting this procedure, the passage of the Medvednica Nature Park's spatial plan has been going on for many years since 2003. So, I'm a historian of that procedure I wouldn't have brought up. That's what the minister and colleagues said before me in detail. Another reason why the SDP will support this proposal of a spatial plan is that, in fact, by not having, the lack of a spatial plan has actually disabled any more serious economic activity in the area of Nature Park Medvednica, especially the one relating to tourism infrastructure. And yes, of course, this spatial plan, so that just by making this spatial plan, legal conditions are created alongside others and for making decisions on urban planning of the top zone and urban planning of the ski complex. So these two investments are in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will be realised by European funds, European funds. And unlike my colleagues, Mesic, I am convinced that the government will succeed because unlike the city of Zagreb, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proved much more ready in absorbing European funds than it was in the city of Zagreb. Every spatial plan is a very sensitive thing out of it because it deals with one resource that's most important, it's people. So with other most important resources, and this is space, and especially sensitive spatial planning in areas that are protected like nature parks. That is why this spatial plan is, in fact, the fruit of a compromise, i.e. the fruit of conversations between stakeholders, different stakeholders, whether it is an institution or an individual. This spatial plan, such as this and the need, does not preserve the area of nature park, but actually enables natural resources to function in the development of the economy of that space. Another reason why SDp will support this spatial plan is that recently it was in this House that the audit report was under discussion, the State Review on the effectiveness of nature protection in the areas of national parks where one of the remarks was precisely that there was no management plans and plans, spatial plans in the fields of nature protection. I am therefore convinced, therefore, that this time and this dynamic of the adoption of spatial plans will not stop, that the resolution ministry will also bring spatial plans for other nature parks. In order to improve the space in the nature park of Medvednica, other than the involvement of the local community, so sensitizing the population there, strengthening the public sector is also necessary to strengthen the capacities of the public institution of the nature park. Because only a high-quality public institution can guarantee the feasibility of this document. We therefore expect both the RES and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to recognise the signals of the professional public in particular to be accepted and realised with the help of this very professional public in that section relating to strengthening the capacity of the public institutions managing the parks of nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85459	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mateljan, you say you will support the law and, among other things, because you are sure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be faster and better able to provide funds from European funds than would be done by the city of Zagreb which has not shown itself in the collection of funds from European funds. On the other hand, it seems to me that one of your predecessors told me and doubted who would be the investor, for example, the wire that would be placed there. It is either the city of Zagreb or it may be a concessionary, but in any case it will not be the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, I don't know where you pulled that off, so you found that link so that in that case, the Regional Development Ministry could be the one that would lead that funding process to European funds. It seems to me that as far as I've come from the debate itself, it would still be the city of Zagreb that would apply for funds, for projects in the peak zone on the one hand, and then even more, it seems appropriate that the Zagreb City Assembly should then also edit this spatial document that would be realized according to this spatial plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85461	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85462	Thank you. Well, look, Mr. Bacic, I speak from experience. I am aware that, unfortunately, local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia do not have enough capacity to absorb funds primarily EU funds. Unfortunately, they don't have that power, they don't have that capacity. And so far, it has proved in fact that however large these units of local self-government are still not large enough to compete at all for funding from structural, or cohesion funds. I am therefore convinced that in this way it is not centralisation in terms of seizing the rights of local self-government units to be involved in spatial planning but rather on the contrary, that it is helping to strengthen the capacity of local self-government units in the absorption of EU funds. This is not just about the town of Zagreb as the largest unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is about small units of local self-government such as the municipality of Bistra and the town of Donja Stubica. Only the Ministry of Regional Development already has programmes, so it aims to strengthen the capacities of local self-government units to be able to absorb European funds. And I'm saying, from my own experience, I know it's the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85463	Thank you. She signed up and respected Mirella Holly. She's gone, so she's losing her right. I'm closing the debate. I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85464	Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Space Plan of Nature Park Medvednica. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 94 votes in favour, 8 abstentions, have been decided on the Spacious Nature Park Plan of Medvednica in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85465	And we're going to the last item of the agenda for today. This is a proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 126. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the club? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85466	... I'm sorry we're not sticking to the Rules of Procedure. [[Specially enabled.]] So, we put this item on the agenda this morning, also this morning on the benches we got the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure we are working under in Article 228, exactly what needs to be done and how it should be done. And no matter what you've done with a rape, the Rules of Procedure and common sense, it would have been at least polite to print a new agenda proposal during the day, where the MPs would have seen that you put this item in the agenda today as the fifth item of the agenda. And for the record, I will read, so Article 228 after the agenda has been established by the President of the Parliament in an appropriate manner, publishes the established agenda. The order of discussion of the agenda points as laid down in the rule shall not be changed in the current week of the session. And we're changing it in the first day. At the beginning of each day of the meeting, the President of the Parliament shall, as a rule, announce the items of the agenda to be discussed that day. If I am neither the President of the Parliament nor all of you who have changed today in the chair did not respect the provisions of this Article 228(3). The statutes, during the sitting, may exceptionally change the order of discussion and decision-making if there are no reports by the competent working authorities and by the applicants or by the Government for certain points of the agenda. At the end of the sitting, the chairman will, as a rule, publish the items of the agenda to be discussed the following day. The president of the Croatian Parliament also said on Friday what points will be discussed today. Therefore, this is a pure violation of the Rules of Procedure, cleans up an incorrect attitude toward fellow MPs, but I say when things are raped, they usually break down on someone’s head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85467	And this is a pure abuse of a plate injury to the Rules of Procedure. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. First, rape is a serious crime. No one here has ever raped anyone. The second thing, our Rules of Procedure says that after the agenda has been established by the President of the Parliament, it is appropriate to publish the established agenda. The established agenda is published on the Assembly website, see, make sure. It's the right way... Let me finish, don't throw it away. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not nervous at all, not at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the right way. But I don't know why you don't go to Parliament's website. If you need help in this regard, say we'll help you. And secondly, the order of discussion of the agenda points as established in the rule does not change in the current week of the session. As a rule, it doesn't change, and it can change enormously. So, in any of the points you listed, the Rules of Procedure were not injured. That's what I'm saying, and you go to the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure and you get their interpretation. ... There is no debate with the chairman, and it says in the Rules of Procedure, after the chair of the meetings gave an interpretation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure no debate but you can announce that you will address the Constitution for the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please consult
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85468	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club because you're being rude. I'm not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85469	For the reason of my insolence, I'm giving you a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85470	Are you co-workers when you laugh so loudly maybe you saw that I'm the one who's hurt the Rules of Procedure? You're not. ... You can bring your cots over here and go to sleep. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85471	Comrade Shuker, you are now being warned for what you said to your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85472	Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85473	Let him bring his own bed here so he can sleep.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85474	Well, let him sleep, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85475	Please, nice. And now I'm giving you a 10-minute break to realize that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85476	But I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, man.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85477	Then what were you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85478	No, I was looking for a word on behalf of the club. You'd better watch. I didn't ask for any damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85479	There's no discussion with the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85480	I wasn't looking for any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and you said I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85481	Well, I wish you'd asked, but there's no discussion with the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85482	But I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85483	I don't know what your problem is? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85484	I don't know what your problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85485	Ten minutes off. Continuing at 22.42. It's 10:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 22.35 HOURS]] Who will speak in the possession of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, I didn't ask on behalf of the club for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I just wanted to say on behalf of the club disagreeing with the way it works in this high house. I'm still saying you broke Article 228, and why? We got everyone to bench this material this morning where the agenda points were in order. And whoever told you it was on the website, on the website this point was not placed as 5 points of the agenda. So whoever whispered to you whispered wrongly. The website just says that today's agenda item is included. So, if it is, let's take it as a 5 point, if you divided us into benches this morning you could share it again. But that's irrelevant, in the end, when we look at it, but it's very important that you failed to put this item on the agenda on Friday. On Friday, the president of the Croatian Parliament said what would be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85488	Sorry, you asked for a break to talk about my insolence. Now you're talking about everything else just not that. I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85489	Mr. Stazic, I didn't ask for a break because of your insolence, then that break would last until the end of the term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85490	That's what you said. No, that's not what you said. Come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85491	I said, Mr. Stazic, I don't see what the anxiety is, all the boos have a nice argument, the record will keep what's in the record, you, as chairman, are using what you can't, which is to comment with the MPs, you have a pay phone you can come and talk about. So we think that the way this item of the agenda is included and discussed, I will not use that word that you said, but those who move in the streets of Zagreb and the surrounding area should know that everything that is violently wanted to do in life has in the tent or in the slang one word that is used and has nothing to do with what you wanted attached to me, but you are generally known as a man that you stick labels without argument and without anything, but that's your problem and that's why we're looking for a break because of your way and behavior. However, Article 228 continues to set out the agenda, among those who adhere to the regulations. You've forced this Rules of Procedure and you're not holding on to it again, a little bit, and you're breaking it when it suits you like that. But what is crucial, with the Croatian police and the MUP during your first term, was a lot of disputes, but then, the then president of your party and the Prime Minister of the late Ivica Account did not think to seek credible interpretation, but simply the court ruled and were later paid... He ruled, but he could have asked for a credible interpretation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For all the decisions we've made, because colleagues and colleagues, so what happens to this country if we don't like every court ruling we're going to ask for a credible interpretation of the assembly majority. Are you aware of what you're opening the door to this country? You're opening the door to something that never happened, but your anxiety now at 15 to 11 about just showing you that you're not even able to put that item in the agenda and to discuss it, it's best to talk about which panic you're in because you have to do what the great leader ordered you to do. However, usually those who force things usually break down in his head, smashing into his head, and very ugly. What you're doing never occurred to anyone in Croatia, never to anyone, never to anyone. But the great legal experts in the SDP will, of course, find their arguments and repeat Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I just wanted to warn you that you did not follow the Rules of Procedure. But you don't usually see things, so then you take the right to interpret. I also didn't ask for a break because of your insolence, but to take a stand as it is, and your insolence is a common known thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85492	- Proposal for a Decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 126(1) and in relation to Articles 60, 62 and 63. Police law, National No. 34/11 and 130/12/12. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You took the material to the benches. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, president of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 90th session held on 8 July 2014, the Honored colleagues and colleagues, the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, discussed a proposal to give a credible interpretation of Article 126, paragraph 1, and in conjunction with Articles 60, 62 and 63. The Law on the Police, “The People's Newspaper, ” No. 34/11, 130/12. which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 18 June 2014. The Committee on Legislatives discussed the opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament of 2 July 2014 according to which this proposal for a credible interpretation is the basis. In addition to the proposal for and against the very institution of providing credible interpretation, it has been found that the granting of a credible interpretation of a certain law and that a systematic legal position is an integral part of the legislative activity of the Croatian Parliament and that the Croatian Parliament is authorised to give or deny the granting of credible interpretation irrespective of the type and extent of implementation of certain provisions of a law for which credible interpretation is required. Following the discussion, the Committee decided by a majority vote, with 5 votes and 4 votes against, that this proposal for a credible interpretation had been established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide on a credible interpretation of Article 126, paragraph 1, and in connection with Articles 60, 62 and 63. The law of the police. The text of a credible interpretation which the Committee has established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to bring it forward shall be given a credible interpretation of Article 126, paragraph 1, and in relation to Articles 60, 62 and 63. The Law on the Police, “The People's Newspaper, ” No. 34/11. and 130/12/12, in the doubt to which police officers are subject to this provision, the obligation to adopt a new regulation on the interior order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in accordance with this law shall be laid down by all police officers to appoint, select and deploy in accordance with that Regulation independently of what operations they have done until then and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Articles 60, 62 and 63. The law of the police. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on police is to ensure the stability and smooth conduct of operations for exchange rate officers from the date of entry into force of that law until the end of the election, appointment or schedule procedure is completed in accordance with the new law in accordance with the internal order regulation of the Ministry of the Interior. After that, this provision enables equality and competitiveness in the selection process of appointments, i.e. deployments towards all police officers equally. The opposite view would lead to the inability to implement the Police Act almost entirely. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The police law under which police officers found in the service on the day of entry into force of the Police Act continue to work in their current posts and retain their calls and salaries according to current regulations until the decision on the schedule is adopted in accordance with the Internal Order of the Ministry in accordance with the provisions of this Act and as regards the provisions of Article 60, 62, 63 of this Act and applies from the date of entry into force of the Police Act. In this way, for all management posts are prescribed by the Regulation on the classification of police officers' posts, the "National Journal" No. 129/11, 82/12. and 140/13. conduct internal advertising procedures. After these procedures, a choice shall be made between those police officers who have appeared on an internal ad and who meet all the conditions laid down and then the selected candidates shall be appointed or deployed to specific management posts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on police officers found at workplaces retains labour rights acquired in accordance with earlier applicable rules in the period from the entry into force of the Police Act to the adoption of a solution on the schedule in accordance with the Internal Order of the Ministry, but at the same time means that all executive posts are prescribed by the Regulation on the classification of police officers' posts free of charge by means of an internal advert, and are appointed to them by police officers after the internal advertising procedure has been implemented, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 60 and 62. The law on police and this decision will be published in the National Journal along with an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85494	Thank you. We have one replica, the Honorable Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85495	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, how do you interpret that both the Administrative Court and the Ombudsman and the Department of Administration's inspection and the Committee on State Service have all equally interpreted this law? So, if there were no ambiguity, that there was no dispute, that no one questioned the content of this law, but only you, or the government as an interested party through its obedient ruling majority, are now questioning the content and meaning of this law. I don't know if you're aware that this is a precedent, that the ruling majority is changing the court order? Do you think it will become a practice in Croatian society, in the Croatian Parliament, in Croatian politics that the ruling majority can change whenever it wants a court ruling? Do you think it's normal and I don't know if you're aware that you're in power for another year and maybe another month and then the cards will get mixed up? Do you really want the future ruling majority to change judicial decisions? Are you aware of what you are doing today and what you will do tomorrow if you vote this credible interpretation? Here, you're a lawyer, you've been in the Parliament for a long time, you know very well that this situation didn't happen, we're changing now, and we're bringing this credible interpretation to the same level of the night as you've obviously become one practice with bilingual inscriptions in Vukovar. And unfortunately, now the others have damage, and the most damage you'll have is you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85496	The reply to the replica respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85497	I will answer you not in my own words, but what the Constitutional Court said in 2007 when he spoke about this institute. So the Constitutional Court of 2007 speaks of the Institute of Reliable Interpretation. The institute is an act of the legislative authority fully in line with the principle of government division. the act of authenticity or of credible interpretation of the Assembly as legislator shall be interpreted as abstract for all cases of the same type of legal provision. While the court, when interpreting the law, interprets it individually in order to resolve a specific case. It is therefore two completely different constitutional areas of the exercise of power, and there is no question that the legislator would enter the area of the judicial authority through credible interpretation and thus limit it. It is mandatory, it is thought of as a credible interpretation and is applied to the Constitutional Court of all cases pending, except for those who are legally terminated. One more thing, you gentlemen last year your representative Bačić asked for authentic credible interpretation, we asked for authentic interpretation of the Law on Forests, where all of us unanimously who were then in the vote voted the Law on Forests by which the court of the squares and roads recorded as forest land. Furthermore, gentlemen, here's to a credible interpretation I'll give you how many times you've asked for a credible interpretation. The most interesting thing was when you asked for an interpretation of the Law on Privatisation for the Kutla case and for the encouragement of the State's Attorney's Office, the Government accepted we have passed authentic interpretation of both this law and some other laws, some laws for which even the two-thirds majority needed because credible interpretation must be voted with an equal number if we are looking for it for the law. Therefore, there were 30 requests for credible interpretations in the period from the 1990s to 2012 in which HDZ authorities equally participated either as a government or as an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85498	Thank you very much. A very useful explanation. I'm opening a debate. My colleagues, Ingrid, you can contact me as a proposer at any time, so don't take part in any private benches like this. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85499	We're usually on the agenda. I will repeat, the institute of credible interpretation in a stable constitutional democracy should not exist. When the laws were passed where they were brought by sovereign kings and emperors, then the right to authentic or credible interpretation is on the king or emperor. In the parliamentary practice of credible interpretation of the law, it was first introduced into the Constitution in 1936 when this authority was given the Supreme Council. And so this practice came to our premises. I'll talk about Europe later. There have been court proceedings and judgments made, and that is important for my further argument. If the Administrative Court, the Committee on State Service, the Attorney General and the Department of Administration's Inspectorate all read and interpret the content of the law where is the problem? You will not be able to hide your colleagues and colleagues, that it is a process that is intervened in a problem that has arisen, I guess, by a miswritten provision of the law, one by content, and the other by interpretation. This credible interpretation will apply from the date of entry into force of the Police Act. In the EU, the Institute of Interpretations has Italy and Belgium, but with an explicit ban on feedback. So, yes, there can be given a credible interpretation, but it can't have a feedback. Greece also had a problem with issuing credible interpretations which rightly has not been entered into the Rules of Procedure but in the Constitution of this Republic and in a case which ended in the European Court of Human Rights that the credible interpretation of the constitutional category in Greece was not accepted by the European Court of Human Rights, he rejected it, all the arguments of the Greek government, believing that the retroactive application of credible interpretation was a difficult violation of Article 6. European Conventions prohibiting any intervention of legislation that would affect judicial proceedings. So we have one decision from the European Court of Human Rights on a similar example. Siniša Rodin of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb writes "The authentic interpretation of the law by the legislator is contrary to both the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the fundamental principles of the legal order of the European Union. Although the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice, by reason of the constitutional character of national norms, does not reject the institute as such in its practice unequivocally stems from the ban on the retroactiveity of such interpretations and prohibitions of intervention in... judicial proceedings as well as the obligation of national courts not to apply such interpretations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The obligation of courts, not law, but obligations of national courts not to apply such interpretations. And now I ask how many such cases we need to realize that those who will be damaged by this interpretation will seek justice before that same European Court of Human Rights. And do we have to hit our heads against the wall on our own and it is not enough for us to realize that Europe does not tolerate, accept, not Europe, the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice to reverse the action of authentic interpretations. What else do we need? What other arguments do we need? Moreover, the Regulation on the classification of posts with which we have to agree to this disputed provision is also the subject of a constitutional court inquiry. Croatia is objecting to legal uncertainty, from investors to all others due to frequent changes in the law. One of the reasons why Europe, or the European Court of Human Rights, opposes the return of authentic credible interpretations is that the procedure is different from the adoption of laws. When the law is passed, there must be a public debate. In this act of credible interpretation, there is no discussion or argument attached in accordance with Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which requires such access to the Croatian Parliament to take that interpretation into reverse action. These are two important differences because if the amendments to the law had been made, the reverse effect of the legislative change should be well explained and defended in the Croatian Parliament of a specific legal provision. These are the basic reasons why legal experts warn of the current, current practice of the European Court of Human Rights. And 141 judgments were made in favour of those who initiated the procedure, inadmissible. Of course after this interpretation, they'll lose those items, those disputes. And of course it will end up at the European Court of Human Rights. And of course someone from the state budget will pay. That's what this is about, nothing else. It would have been good if it had been nerves, times, patience and reason, and given up because it would have stopped at 141 objects. And what if another 2200 of the 2400s were covered by this false interpretation of the law and have not submitted so far precisely because of the issuing of an authentic interpretation of the request for protection of their rights? Because after that they will be denied the protection of their rights, access to court because of their return action. So we can easily talk about not 141 cops, man, person, but far greater numbers. Someone mentioned it earlier in 2002/'03. and the great obligations that were then created, and were returned years after that to lawsuits for non-compliance with collective agreements and illegal breakups of collective agreements. It was not enough for us to realize that sooner or later the right of someone who had at some point the law would give him back either the Croatian court or the European court. This is the framework of a member of the Croatian European Union. And I wouldn't be surprised if the number of cases, proposals and requests for an assessment of the constitutionality of this interpretation day after the publication in the National Journal were not one more than one, and the Constitutional Court took up a different interpretation. It may not only be in this particular but general institute of credible interpretation. I think clarity is fully aware of whose soul will then go to such decisions. And as hard as I tried to figure out the reasons for stubbornness, I still couldn't. It is human's admission to error, to correct it wherever it is possible and the stupidest is to force its stance further despite all warnings that the damage will not pay and suffer those who have made the wrong decisions but the taxpayers of this country. So citizens, the taxpayers will be the ones who will again pay for someone else's mistake, stubborn, defiance that is being driven all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85500	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, I fully support your appeal to the ruling to give up this dangerous precedent, which represents an incursion in the work of the judicial authority. When colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović compares one proposal from the opposition representative to the Croatian Parliament to give a credible interpretation of Article 120. The Social Care Act, which requires the Croatian Parliament to ask whether the current Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth are acting under the law when appointing the administrative council of the Social Care Centre in the Republic of Croatia. With this proposal, which represents the practical order or order of the President of the Party or Government, which is also the holder of the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia, to interpret the law in a way that does not suit them, and not as decided by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, then it seems to me that me and the honourable representative do not live at the same time. It seems to me that this request is practically on the trail of those times you mentioned when it was... '37. put this institute as a possibility of deciding and assessing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85502	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85503	The membership is binding on Croatia's membership in the European Union. Allow me, I couldn't give you everything for the time being. In response to the complaint, the Greek Government opposed the prosecutors by stating that the authority of authentic interpretation was explicitly prescribed in Article 77. The Constitution of Greece, under which such interpretation is applied to all court cases, whether they are pedential or not. According to the Greek government, such a law does not change the content of the provisions of the law but only explains their real meaning. The European Court of Human Rights rejected the Greek Government's arguments, noting that the principle of rule of law and the concept of fair court proceedings incorporated in Article 6. The European Conventions prohibit any intervention by a legislator which would affect judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85504	Second replica, the esteemed Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85505	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Lesar, I think you've made an excellent argument about your position. In previous discussions, I have mainly pointed to the dimension of legal certainty, or uncertainty that this decision, if ruled by the authorities, will have on Croatian citizens. You have opened, I repeat, very well this dimension of Croatia's membership in the European Union. We already have precedents about what happened when certain governments and parliaments wanted to give credible interpretations and how it ended. But as in the case of lex Perkovic, the ruling majority then refused our suggestions, our arguments, being heroized here by no one can do anything to us, it proved in the end that they had no right and had to do as the obligations of the Republic of Croatia and the good that they did. But now they're making the same mistake, so they don't recognise what's evident, what will eventually be done if not sooner, in the Constitutional Court. And you said well, perhaps the Constitutional Court will make a different decision given the new circumstances of Croatia's membership in the European Union and the legal cases it has, but if the Constitutional Court does not do so then the European Court of Human Rights will ultimately make a statement as well as in the Greek case and the pens that will be paid will be much higher than they are now but then the Government will not be in its position and the costs will be paid by someone else, just as they did during the Minister Lucin and for the cost that Croatian taxpayers later of course paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85506	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85507	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the prime minister confirmed that the government's agenda will be required for the implementation of the new Police Act on Thursday. This is about a Regulation on the salaries of police officers, a Regulation on the classification of police posts and a Regulation on the acquisition of police calls. After that, the government will open a public tender for the new head of police, and then internal competitions for the appointment of police administrations and police stations will be opened. He spoke before the parliamentary elections, then Interior Minister Tomislav Karamarko of the Police Law and its implementation. That minister, as well as the one who came behind him, was not the questionable meaning of Article 126(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on police, i.e. that Minister of the Interior, held that the adoption of a new Internal Regulation on the Interior of the Ministry should all police officers be appointed, elected or deployed in accordance with that Regulation, regardless of what jobs they had done before and according to the procedures laid down in Articles 60, 62 and 63. The law of the police. Why did I start with that particular quote? Because HDZ has once again shown, as is the case with bilingualism this morning, that one rule applies to them when they are in power, and another when they are in opposition, that when they are not in opposition, they do not choose the means by which they will muddle and invoke those in power, nor when those who are in power enforce the laws precisely in terms and content in which they have brought these laws themselves, that when they are in opposition, they consider those institutes that when they have been in power themselves. And what is before us is a legitimate, Rules of Procedure arranged, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court confirmed the procedure of making a kind of decision to which the Croatian Parliament is to until otherwise authorised. And yes, this procedure is carried out in the same way as the laws are passed. It is explicitly and clearly written in the Rules of Procedure. Reliable interpretation or authentic interpretation or adoption of so-called The interpretative law, whatever you call it, is a decision that we, as parliamentary representatives, must make not only because it is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but because such power of the Croatian Parliament has been confirmed twice by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. For the first time, the Constitutional Court spoke of a credible interpretation in 2004 as follows. From the constitutional authority of the Croatian Parliament, its power to adopt a credible interpretation of the law also arises. The procedure for the adoption of a credible interpretation of the law must be governed by the legal norm, in particular by the rules of procedure but does not have to be identical to the procedure for the adoption of the law. According to the new Rules of Procedure, it is identical. The provisions on the adoption of the law shall apply accordingly. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has assessed the grounds of the applicant as unfounded. But the Constitutional Court didn't stop at that. When asked the same question again in 2007, the Constitutional Court said of a credible interpretation: In the section of the Croatian Parliament, it is not possible to accept the adoption of an act on credible interpretation of the law because the credible interpretation of the law is only a part of the exercise of the legislative authority of the Croatian Parliament. The Constitutional Court continues. The applicant's claim that the contested provisions of the Rules of Procedure violate the constitutional principle of division to rule on legislative, executive and judicial matters, i.e. that they are not in accordance with Article 4 of the Constitution is also constitutionally unfounded. If the act on credible interpretation of the law is an interpretation of the law, the interpretation of the law and how one of the constitutional means of reaching the legislative authority has already been pointed out, then, in the nature of the matter, this institute is fully in line with the principle of government division, regardless of what constitutional and legal interpretation of that principle has been adopted. The act on the credible interpretation of the law of the Assembly as legislator reads abstractly for all cases of the same kind of legal provision. While the court, when interpreting the law in application, interprets it individually regarding the resolution of a specific case. So the Constitutional Court has twice debated the credible interpretation of the law and has both taken the view that it is allowed. By applying this authentic interpretation of the law, the courts will be free to determine how the law applies in a specific case, and any conduct of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the adoption of authentic, or credible interpretation, is under the control of the Constitutional Court. So, this norm, this act goes through the same procedure as any other act that the Croatian Parliament adopts. Now, has anything changed since 2007 on credible interpretation? Nothing. In addition to today's HDZ colleagues, such an institute is no longer acceptable even though their colleague asked the Parliament a year ago to give such an interpretation of the Social Care Act, although HDZ supported and voted for the interpretation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 1990 Law of the Forests, which we also made because of certain judgments of Croatian courts that have ruled, I will remind, streets and squares, and turned them into state property from the property of our municipalities and cities. Therefore, credible interpretation is such an institute that is normally, allowed in the Croatian legal order and applied by all the authorities in Croatia, including in the fifth and sixth meetings of the Croatian Parliament. But he's bothering some people today. And what does credible interpretation in this case of ours say? For Article 126(1), which reads as follows: "Police officers of the Ministry found in the service on the day of entry into force of this law shall continue to work on their current posts and shall retain their titles and salaries according to current regulations until the adoption of a schedule decision in accordance with the Internal Order of the Ministry in accordance with the provisions of this Act, shall be interpreted in such a way that all police officers should appoint or choose or deploy, in accordance with that Regulation, independent of the tasks which they have done before and according to the procedures laid down in Articles 60, 62 and 63. The law of the police." And I'm asking you now if we carefully read the cited article in which he could interpret himself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85508	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85509	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's like we've come back a year and something backwards. Equally confident, our chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Peja Grbin, tells us that everything is under control, that everything will be great, that all this is legal and in accordance with the Constitution. It all happened when we had the lex perkovic case. A fellow coat of arms, you probably remember that. You were equally convinced the Croatian public that everything was under control. And then you bowed your heads in the end when it all turned out to be exactly what the MPs of the HDZ Club told you. It's happening now. Now I ask you a question colleague Ingrid Anticevic did not answer, try to answer. How is it that both the Administrative Court and the Department of Administration's Inspectorate and the Board of State Service have equally interpreted that law, that is to say, you are the only one who, through you now, is trying to interpret this law in a different way. Do you think all these people are inextricable, that they don't understand? But four institutions, of which three institutions are the government's money to say so. It's just the administrative court that doesn't matter, it's part of another government, and everyone else is part of your state apparatus and everyone decides and says the same thing. But that doesn't suit you, and let's change this by force. And for the first time in 25 years, you keep your mouth shut. After a court ruling, it goes to a credible interpretation. When you mention a colleague of Bačić's, it doesn't matter. You hold on to the straw, you have no other arguments, and then you call on what he's been asking as an opposition representative to take a few questions. There's no problem with credible interpretation. You said it yourself, it was thirty times, but never in this way, never in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85510	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85511	Dear counterpart Jandrokovic insists on the Law on judicial co-operation. As regards the Law on Judicial Cooperation, you claimed that the law was controversial and that nothing was wrong, it turned out that one article was disputed to the European Commission. After discussions and arrangements, we changed that one article. But at the same time as the meeting was held with the Commissioner, Mrs Reding, something else was discussed, the implementation of Article 12(1) was discussed. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities welcomed the conduct of Croatian authorities and welcomed the setting up of bilingual panels in Vukovar. You didn't hear it then, you didn't notice, you forgot, at the same time. Because you obviously only get what you like in your ears. And as for the different interpretations I have spoken, I will repeat once again, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests 114 votes in favour, not one vote against this House. Why did we interpret it authentically? Because by acting in accordance with very vague articles of the Law on Forests, Croatian courts judged in one way that was wrong. At that time, the fact that the courts in the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia reached judgment did not interfere. And today when I read to you that this isn't just an interpretation of these but also of the previous authorities obviously you can't hear it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85512	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85513	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, I think I appreciate your expertise, but when you get here in front of this pay phone, there's no credibility. You lost on those constitutional changes, you rolled us for 5.6 months here with lex Perkovic, it all ended badly for this country and for people. They went where they went. You've told us all kinds of stories, so it's all great, so it doesn't matter that we brought it three days before, so it's all in line with the EU, so we have to protect the Croatian defenders, so it all fell apart in the end. You saw how it ended. The worst was for you. And now that you're here, it looks like an ad to me, the other day I read it, I sell balvanas, lies and pranks. Because what am I supposed to think when you guys roll us over here and now you're telling us after the court's decision on how it's supposed to look? And as the prime minister says, instead of kissing him on the cheek, the same judiciary, you're gonna have to give him a shower. Now it will be as we say. Well, you can't do that. Because what is the damage that occurred when 2.5 thousand people were replaced? Did you calculate that? Does anyone have any information? What do you want to save? How much does that cheek cost? So these people were paid equally for the same job, and two were doing the same job. Do you realize what you've done in the system? And when we warned you, you explained that it was all great and that there was no problem until the administrative court's decision came. Now, he's talking again. I get the feeling you're your own penicillin. When I get sick, we get rid of ourselves, heal ourselves, change the law, we can do what we want. Here, that's it. And the rest of you, choose to obey the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85514	The replica matches the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85515	Mr. Boric, I'm only going to ask you one thing, but of course you won't answer it. And that's how the appointments in the police were made while you were in power? What were these appointments done? Here, that's one question I'm going to ask you, which you'll never answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85516	New replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85517	You mentioned the word abstractally and the interpretation of something that is abstract. The abstraction exists in art, and I'm going to tell you something that isn't abstract in my city. In 2000, in the same way, it went a little bit to play with the frames. And now it has come to my citizen's charge of 2 million kuna. And there are more of these disputes. Now we play in a way to interpret as we interpreted it during Lex Perkovic and you convinced us that you were right, so you finally had to change it again. What happens when you, who make such a decision for a verdict that has already been practically passed, although inadmissible, someone has to pay these people? And it's not just about one person, it's about thousands of people who were literally removed for political reasons. Someone will pay for it, and I doubt you'll pay for it personally or all those who raise their hands but it will cost very much these citizens and the budget. Some investment will have to give up. It's from Plomin, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85518	Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85519	Dear colleague Klaric, I did indeed mention the word abstractly but only by quoting the Constitutional Court's decision. The abstract in terms of interpretation is the interpretation that is general. So it generally applies to all objects. And a concrete interpretation is that interpretation that is given individually in one case. That's what you learn at the first year of law school. An abstract or general interpretation is given by a legislator, but it is an authentic interpretation. It exists with us, and it's arranged with the Rules of Procedure. We have changed the Rules of Procedure several times in this assembly and in the previous meetings of the Parliament. You and your club, i.e. you are not specifically and personally, I apologize, your club has given a whole series of proposals to amend that Rules of Procedure. Some proposals were adopted after the first reading, some through amendments after the second. But you know what the proposal wasn't? There were no proposals to remove an authentic interpretation from the Croatian legal system. And as long as it exists in the Croatian legal system, as long as the Constitutional Court says about it, and as I said twice, it has already said that this institute is allowed, we have the right to use it, and we use it rarely and only when the need is shown. As long as that institute survives, the legislator has both the right and the obligation to use it. Tomorrow, we may have to cancel it. Tomorrow, the Constitutional Court may have to suspend it. Until then, his use is not only legal but legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85520	New replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85521	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grbin, this decision on the credible interpretation of the Police Act, you simply claim that the inspection, the attorney general, the Committee on State Service, and ultimately, the Administrative Court cannot interpret the provisions of the Police Act. When you're so sure you're right, then why didn't you initiate the only thing left in a democratic society by one of the parties in the process, continue the trial before the high court, in this case why didn't the Government, as a party in the process, appeal before the High Court in the Republic of Croatia? Which would be the only thing that would be normal. This is how when the ruling majority changes the law in this way during the course of a court procedure in which it is one of the parties, it is not only a conflict of interest, but it is a harsh violation of the principle of the trioty of the power to which the legislative authority, i.e. the ruling majority, is harshly mixed in the work of the judiciary. So you have no argument here to compare this procedure to all the interpretations of the laws that individual parliamentary representatives have submitted to the Croatian Parliament during the 24 years of the Croatian State. Because this is the first time that during the course of a court case which is the sole obligation to interpret the law that the Croatian Parliament intervenes and amends the law or interprets it as it corresponds to the party that is in the proceedings and who has lost before that same court in the first degree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85522	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85523	Dear colleague, one more thing from the first year of law school. Each State body, by deciding on the rights and obligations of individuals in a specific case, is obliged to apply and thus interpret the law. The Croatian Parliament is also a state body. When the Croatian Parliament works, it is required to interpret both the Constitution and the laws. It's not just courts who are authorized to interpret laws. Now, I mentioned one example that we discussed a year and four months ago, an authentic interpretation of the Law on Amendments and additions to the 1990 Forests Act. The Supreme Court's decision, the highest regular court of the Republic of Croatia, the application of this decision in practice, the debate in the Parliamentary Committees, was an interesting situation, the government was against this authentic interpretation, but, for example, the Committee on Agriculture under the chairmanship of a respected colleague, Peter Cobankovic, voted unanimously in favour of the adoption of such authentic interpretation of the Law on Forests. It is precisely because the judgments of power led to such a situation that the streets and squares of the city's centre become forests. And anyone with healthy eyes sees that they're not. And that's why we brought that authentic interpretation. I'll repeat 114 votes for, not one against. Now, you said about legal drugs. Administratively, the Law on Administrative Disputes has laid down a very restrictive possibility of appeal against the decisions of the Administrative Court against the High Administrative Court, you must consider this. And the other thing, especially interesting, you see the state cannot address the Constitutional Court and ask it to protect its rights. I'm just saying, I'm introducing you to that fact. Since the state cannot address these institutions then the state can, while it is allowed, and still in Croatia is allowed to use the Institute of authentic interpretation and it does so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85524	The last replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85525	Dear colleague Grbin, for everything you've assured us about the so-called so-called. Lex Perkovic, they say you've lost credibility and credibility. What about that parliamentary commission for Mr. Djurekovic's murder? How far did we get with this famous structure that was to be conducted by the parliamentary commission? You're the same person who explained it. And now we've been asking you three or four times, because some colleagues on the council board are doubting your competence. For the third or fourth time, we ask you why the Ministry of Administration's inspection and the attorney general, and the Committee on State Services thinks completely different from what you've interpreted today. These are people of your profession who have long been in this business, who know what they're talking about and who sign it. Similarly, the professors at Law School, Professor Radin, say, how is it possible that they all claim completely different from what you claim? Is it really possible that you know this problem so much better than they do? If that is indeed so, then in that case I am very skeptical of what it has shown both in the Lex Perkovic case and in the case of the Parliamentary Commission for the murder of Djurjekovic, that you were wrong. Answer us, for the third time we're asking you specifically. You keep saying, give us arguments, answer us specifically, how is it possible that all these institutions are saying one thing and you're saying different? In each court of First Instance, they would lose immediately because they would be the ones who were saying something against three other witnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85526	Time. The replica matches Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85527	The work of an esteemed colleague Rodin is often cited in the last few months in the Republic of Croatia regarding the issue of authentic interpretation. In response to not one such use of this work, Honorable colleague Rodin wrote the following. It is unacceptable to use scientific work from 2005 in a way that connects it to the daily political context of 2014. I'm sorry that when you talk about the work of your colleague Rodin, don't talk about this sentence. A colleague wrote the work under other circumstances also because of someone else’s actions. Would he write it like that today, I really don't know and I can't even guess. At the end of the day, counterpart Rodin must no longer write this because he, as judge of the EU court, must neither comment nor engage in daily political debates in Croatia nor deny those who use its work incorrectly. And as for my competence, you colleagues have every right to doubt her, absolutely. I will never deny you that right. Yeah, for example. in your competence as one of the best underwater archaeologists in the Republic of Croatia, I will never doubt it. And you know why? Because underwater archaeology doesn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85528	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Davorin Mlakar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85529	Good evening. You seem a little tired, I hope you can handle it. No wonder. Good evening, I said. We won't make it till midnight, at least not with this exposure. How would I begin my presentation on behalf of the club without anyone thinking it would be pre-ironic or pre-arcastic? 23.39.46, that's the time. Today, we have placed a point in the agenda that you failed on Friday and all the media that are monitoring the work, according to a colleague, this High House, or the main media that has found it in your hands, is not included in the agenda because more than half of the MPs did not come to work on Friday. It's really commendable to all of us. They didn't understand, though, that you didn't put this item on the agenda Friday because we brought down the quorum as one of the legitimate forms of parliamentary struggle, because the arguments are unfortunately most often on you, but there's absolutely no influence I can do. Today we've heard several stories about a top scientific approach to credible or authentic interpretation of the law. What exactly is this about? It is the fate of 2400 civil servants who are in this particular case employed by the police. What everyone has failed to say, they are not only subject to the Police Act, their working relationship is also subject to the Civil Service Act in all those areas where their working relationship does not regulate the Police Act, and there is a lot of it. For example, the law assumes, regardless of the Police Act, that the Ministry of the Interior must have passed a employment programme, that they had to adopt a rule that they had to get the consent of the Ministry of Administration. Interestingly, the same ministry that he thinks these people have been illegally removed. And a whole series of other provisions of the Civil Service Act concern these people who have lost their jobs. They were left without a job on, as the HDZ said, but I will repeat, the Committee on the State's Service, a body that deals with official relations, the Ministry of Administration's inspection and the administrative court that decided in a concrete dispute, found that the Ministry of the Interior worked against the law. And not only did they find it illegal, there are parts that they didn't mention, that it was the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the same workplace that held two executives or two executives, if you will, because it was mostly executive jobs. And for the entire time, this problem we're talking about has been paying the salary of both the former and current employee at the workplace. That didn't concern anyone, least of all the government. The government was concerned by the fact that all the competent authorities had raised the law very clearly and without a problem, but this interpretation of the law did not suit the government. That's the first part of the problem. What's unclear about the law? The law on the occasion states that state officials, acting as police officers, can deploy themselves to job openings that were regulated by internal regulations in the MUP and all the bodies applying the law understood what it was and simply applied it and said, you could not deploy people to jobs that were not available, and were not available to all those jobs where some officials, names and last names were found, or if you want to head and beard, those who were already in those jobs and could not fill in the completed posts another contractor. It's not possible, it's not logical and it's not normal. And after all of this, the MUP instead of editing its internal schedule, to regulate its sublegal regulations, brought them into line with the law because it had lost to three instances, and then was also warned by the attorney general that they were violating human rights by their actions and instead of harmonising their dealings with the law, asked the Parliament to bring a credible interpretation in the middle of the night on the last day of the regular part of the summer or the spring session of the Parliament. And now everyone resisted the great experts in the public we read some of the performances of some of our colleagues who interpreted everything about the credible interpretation of the law. We'll tell you what's new if you think there's nothing new. The decisions of the Constitutional Court that you quoted from 2004 and 2007 are in a precise procedure, the Constitutional Court of Justice, on the fact that there is an opportunity for the Croatian Parliament to issue a credible interpretation. Last year, Croatia became a full member of the EU, took over the legal property of the EU, took over the rights and obligations arising from its membership, and quoted as having already given up its opinion, and I have not heard it, the professor of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and the judge of the EU Court said other than that, and much was said by fellow Lesar, that the Institute is known as the Institute which used the walls of the Supreme Soviet Union, that this is an instrument used by Vladimir Iljic Uljanov or Lenin if you wish, he spoke of concrete court proceedings that take place within the EU and why such an interpretation of the law is not acceptable. And most importantly, given Croatia's EU membership, I will quote from Professor Rodin's opinion. "The basis of Article 220. The European Court of Justice of the European Union has the power to interpret the meaning of Community law, and to give the courts prior intrinsic opinions on the basis of Article 234. The interpretation of the European Court of Justice refers to the meaning of Community law including guidelines as one of the main normative instruments of harmonisation of national law. On the other hand, the concept of authentic interpretation opens up the possibility that the national parliament" is our situation "gives authentic interpretation of national laws which are implemented by guidelines. If such authentic interpretation were to be contrary to the practice of the European Court of Justice, the state would violate the rights of the community." And not to quote everything stated by an expert to whom we have given faith in what he says is also "a critical reference to the fact that the credible interpretation of the law by the Assembly violates the pluralist democratic nature of the Croatian Constitution, and is contrary to the constitutional principle of the division of power and the rule of law because it penetrates the jurisdiction of the judicial authority and violates the constitutional ban on the retroactiveness of legislation", and we can also add in those rare EU states that know the credible interpretation of the law it is limited by several criteria. Most important of all, that credible interpretation should not act retroactively and should not apply to specific cases that are ongoing. In our example, you have broken these two conditions with your proposal, and you are asking that the credible interpretation of the law which is clear to all but the Croatian Government, even its levers, of the authorities if you want to, demand that this opinion acts retroactively, that it offends the specific rights of people from working relationships and ask that it refers to specific cases that are still pending. That's inadmissible. And it is a particularly worrying idea to seek a credible interpretation of the law after the Administrative Court has decided, in favour of those who have taken up legal acts against such violence committed in official relations by the Ministry of the Interior. And it is true, there is a very limited possibility at all of the appeal procedure at the High Administrative Court and does not mean that an appeal is allowed in this case but means that all institutions have acted in accordance with the laws adopted by this Croatian Parliament and now you are asking for the legal basis for legal requirements to be amended. This is unremembered in our previous practice of parliamentary democracy, and this is a major blow to the rule of law and to the division of the government that guarantees it by the Croatian Constitution. It would be, it would be good, and it would be useful to give up this request for a credible interpretation. You are as well aware that at midnight today we are talking about this because we are satisfying some selfish interests of a small number of people who have risen not only against judicial decisions but also against the constitutional arrangement of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85530	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85531	Thank you very much. Well, you're the one who talked about the coup against the rule of law. In this case, the MUP says that they have implemented the procedure in accordance with, be careful, with the standards of the European Union and in order to fully depolitise the system in several ways. And then they gave up 26 grand and 431 solutions, so he says only 235 people were complaining, 1% so it's nothing. So then he says through the internal ads of 2278 people, and only 141, that's like 6%, so let's see what's going on in the system. So why do these credible interpretations when there's no harm and there's obviously no harm? But then they were surprised by the judiciary because they were convinced at first even though I don't know why those people in the police who were depolitized share in the Karamarks or Ostojic or Lucinov or whose. Well, they're Croatian cops who have a profession, they have a job to do, they have a job to do. At first as soon as they got here, they started sharing them that way. For what? And today two of them are working in the same place and getting the same pay, no one is saying how much damage they are. And then, of course, we come to that question he asked or the prime minister himself, not thinking that one day the situation will appear, says who has no confidence in the Croatian judiciary should give up citizenship. So let's see who it is who gives up Croatian citizenship because you don't trust the judiciary. You want it to judge what you say. Will someone give up there, will you listen to the Prime Minister? It's half the night but... Here, so I think it'd be good if someone started because it wasn't just, I said something public, so here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85532	The replica matches Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85533	I'm going to talk about those 2400 people one more time because they said I'm a civil servant. The argument that only 140 or 200 complained about them is that you know how to say it at all. It may not have occurred to anyone that a part of these people are fighting for their jobs so they don't dare complain about a solution. Probably not because I suppose they were absolutely protected from all possible human rights and then the rights of employment and that none of them were actually threatened in case they started pointing out lawsuits against the process of being conducted in his working relationship. So then to talk about that only 200 people complained with 2400 was replaced is like this I won't use a paradox but it's a worrying problem. The question is how many of them would complain if they didn't have this worry about keeping any jobs, and then they didn't dare simply conduct the procedure. But on the other hand, we've now sent a great message. And to those who had guts and had courage, we will change the law so that they too lose the opportunity to prove that the employer has unlawfully fired them. Now it's becoming a slippery ground, it's becoming what we're talking about in the area of legal security, the rule of law and the facts that we're doing today. Once they've succeeded in their demands and now we're going to change their foundation, we're going to move their solid ground under their feet and they're all going to end up as they say in internal competitions. If they wanted to be transparent, they'd be public tenders, not internal competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85534	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the proposing president of the Committee on Legislatives, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a very short one. Those who would observe us would say what people are talking about. Namely, you should talk about content itself. The law on police was passed during the former government. Prior to that, people were appointed to all the executive posts at the request of the director and then the minister. Aware of that, then Minister Karamarko, before the end of the term of office, is aware that he has to implement this law and that he wants to implement the rule. And he finished it and it was just done by Minister Ranko Ostojic. If he did not interpret himself that way and it was the will of the legislation, it was the will of the legislator to professionalise the police and that the people who start working there had a reason to try and advance in that service. Because if it weren't, or if it were, then the Police Act wouldn't apply. And what would they have? Those appointed by Karamarko before the adoption of his own law in 2011 would be at the service until they died, until they retired, until Mother Nature did her part. And these others, if any place remains empty, can be filled in by the 2011 Police Act for five years. And now I'm going to say something normal. Why is it repeatedly repeated here a terrible lie that the Croatian Parliament never brought a credible interpretation when some proceedings are meant to be under way. Now I'm going to quote you during the HDZ government as they were changing and rightly changing two laws, no court law, and that's the Penal Code and the Law on tightening interest that courts in civil and civil areas and in the criminal section are doing almost daily on the basis of this law. We remember the Kutle case when only social property was covered. What happened then? At that time, a credible interpretation is required to interpret Article 23 in conjunction with Article 1 of the Criminal Law and is asked, in doubt of criminal protection provided only by social property, which is social property. So it is explained and said that the concept of social property is established by the law that it is evident that it is social, property, that they have to consider property not only social property but the means of meeting the common... needs as well as natural wealth and good in general use. Furthermore, according to that provision, social property is considered to be property entrusted to a state body, company or to another social legal entity or to be held with it on a legal basis. Yes, because of this truth pains, you can’t see the truth, and that’s why people need to be raised to hear the truth. So it was signed by Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare on December 8, 2004. All colleagues and colleagues remember the Law on tight interest when courts began to apply a comfortable way of calculating tight interest, which many for minimum amounts almost ruined, them and their generations. In 1996, indeed, this Croatian Parliament in the majority of which the HDZ has but has been adopted unanimously is calculated in a different way, by attribution rather than a comfortable calculation, so as to reduce the amount of the interest. In fact, what do we have to see in this whole story and these last days? This party, the opposition, does not like our courts at all to judge, has more confidence in foreign courts but it is a pleasure to have the right to love someone more or not. The executive authority is prevented from applying the laws, the Constitutional Law when it does not suit it, and they deny themselves a fundamental right not only given by this Assembly, which originally belongs to the Parliament itself as a legislative body, but also confirmed the Constitutional Court itself, but now that quoting them to the Constitutional Court and its provisions does not go into service, which is precisely that this House, the Croatian Parliament brings laws and brings credible interpretations. And we don't touch the odds, but there's no other authority to touch the legislative authority. Laws and interpretations are passed by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85536	Thank you. I'm also closing this agenda. We'll vote today at 9.30. And now we're gonna interrupt the session and I'll see you in a few hours. Session interrupted at 00:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-14-0.u85537	The proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 126(1) and in relation to Articles 60, 62 and 63. National newspaper police law No. 34/11 and 130/12/12. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We will not ask for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club, but we will repeat it once again so that it remains written that we consider it to be a non-democrat procedure coming from the ruling majority, that we believe that this process seriously endangers legal certainty and constitutional justice in the Republic of Croatia, that we are jeopardising the basic principles of democracy, and for this reason we strongly oppose the adoption of this credible interpretation. And the HDZ Representatives' Club does not wish to give any legitimacy to make that decision will leave the assembly.
