ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81574	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In front of you is the proposal for a Law on Recovering the consequences of a disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. The adoption of this law proposes to mitigate the consequences of the catastrophic floods that affected the area of Vukovar-Srijem County during May 2014 and their scope and intensity and unexpected risks to the health and lives of a larger number of people, property and the environment. On 20 May 2014, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to declare a disaster for the Vukovar-Srijem County area in order to begin the process of resolving the consequences that could not be prevented or removed by the regular action of the competent authorities. Since the decision was taken to date, the Government has made a number of individual decisions to address the consequences of the disaster. However, the scope and intensity of the consequences incurred required the adoption of a specific law in order to allow for an effective comprehensive resolution of the consequences of disaster in order to achieve assumptions for the protection of life and human health, animal protection, property, property rights, environmental rights, natural and economic goods, cultural heritage, cultural infrastructures, as well as other rights and freedoms, and to create conditions for the establishment of normal life and the continuation of economic, educational, cultural activities in the areas affected by disaster. The aim of a more rapid resolution of the consequences of the disaster by this law is proposed that the Government, immediately after its entry into force, bring into force the proposal of the competent central authorities of the public administrations of programmes containing measures to restore and resolve the consequences of the following area, protect human health, rebuilding of residential and commercial buildings, and public purpose buildings, rebuilding of roads, temporary housing of victims during the renovation of residential buildings, depositation of mud, glamour waste and other abuses, rights and obligations in the field of tax debt relations, entrepreneurship and crafts, agriculture, veterinary, labour and pension systems, justice, rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, education, protection of cultural goods and infrastructure. And what I want to point out in particular for the protection of human health is the legal measures that can be taken by the minister responsible for health in order to eliminate the consequences of a disaster that can lead to epidemics, infectious diseases and other threats to the health of a larger number of people. The renovation of buildings is carried out by repairing, paying cash instead of repairing or removing buildings that are not safe for staying and building new buildings. Refurbishment measures would be carried out in particular by an emergency procedure where regulations governing the spatial planning, construction and control of construction are not applied, specific regulations affecting the regulation of building conditions unless otherwise prescribed by this law. The normalisation of life requirements and the establishment of conditions for continuing economic activity, and in this respect, measures of grants to entrepreneurs and craftsmen or small-scale operators who have suffered damages have been planned. The implementation of the law would also allow the employment of unemployed persons in the area affected by floods through a public work programme. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In particular, issues related to facilitating the situation of enforcement procedures and insurance procedures, issues related to the regulation of mandatory relations, the course of limitation, the stalemate of proceedings, the emergency procedure, the release of payment of court fees, as well as issues of the right to free legal assistance and the urgency of settlement in administrative proceedings. Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of the family of the deceased Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War from the Vukovar-Srijem County are being delayed from paying off loans, allowing for the right of housing to be paid off beyond the established order for the granting of housing credit and are granted to associations of Croatian defenders and members of their families a change of up to 50% of the funds obtained for the recovery of the consequences of the flood. In order to facilitate the situation of families with children attending schools, free diets in schools are provided and administrative fees are released, and students from flooded areas are enabled to obtain special rights and students... facilitate enrolment in the following academic year. In addition to the measures described above, the draft law also contains other individual measures and activities which enable the resolution of the consequences of the disaster to be carried out. The supervision of the application of the new law, which includes supervision of the implementation of measures, programmes and activities in certain administrative areas, will be carried out by the competent central authorities of the state administration and on their implementation... regularly report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia at monthly level. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] The application of this law would begin immediately after its entry into force, given that bodies are required to propose to the Government, within 7 days, the adoption of the programme, each of them from its territory covered by this law. The law would be valid for a year from the date of its entry into force in which we expect to create conditions for the establishment of a previous situation, i.e. the establishment of normal life and the continuation of economic, educational and cultural activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81575	Thank you, too, Deputy Prime Minister. We also have a replica of the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81576	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. I'm just curious why the government's law-explanatory team isn't the finance minister? Because the key provisions of this law apply to that area right now. And what I would like to warn you today, as I warned you on Friday, is that, in accordance with Article 4 of this law in Croatia, this law is inconclusive. You need to know that you can't change roof laws by some other law. You have the Budget Act, you have the Law on the implementation of the budget that adopted this High House, and you cannot change any other law of that law. This is Article 4 and Article 19. I'd also like to ask you what I mean by rights and obligations in a tax-debted relationship? Tax debt relations do not exist in the financial terminology of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, you must know that any or exemptions from taxes or temporary suspension requires administrative proceedings carried out by the Ministry of Finance or other body. The second thing, this law was passed at the principle level. You can't, just one example, say you don't apply the provisions of the Water Economy Act. You must specify exactly which article of the water economy is applied under this law. If the law stays like this, then it leaves the possibility of doing whatever anyone wants. So, the proposal for both my personal and the HDZ Club on Friday was already to get the government out of this stalemate position the simplest to make amending the law on the implementation of the state budget will solve a lot of these other problems. And all of this together is simply the law passed at will, and in the field, people will do whatever they want in the ministries. However, it is most of the things that require administrative action and how the administrative procedure is carried out, and Well, at least let me finish my sentence. [[President: Thank you very much. And a response to the replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81577	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81578	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, MP. I think the fact that there isn't a finance minister here today or one of his own doesn't diminish the importance because we discussed this in the government, we heard all the arguments. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no intention of avoiding a regular procedure particularly in the part where 5% of the budget can be intervened. And in that sense, the programs that need to be done are bound by the Ministry of Finance as well as by everyone else. What's true and that's that the law was passed really at hot as you say and I'm going to say that it was brought quickly with intent to normalize the situation in that area as soon as possible because with existing legal provisions, it certainly couldn't have been over in a year. It is precisely the supervision and obligation that the government at the monthly level controls all the programmes that the roofing ministries, or central authorities of the state administration should do, were the reasons actually to do the law not for the sake of order. Because I'm going to remind you of one thing, and that's 17, so exactly a month ago there was a bump in Raj's Village, a lot of things happened in this period, a lot of things were removed, but it took a special law to stabilize the situation in that area as soon as possible. No intention is to offer the ministries options to avoid laws but vice versa to bring in within 7 days of the programmes they would be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81579	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies and the board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? Yeah. Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Honored Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go, colleague Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81580	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. At its 33rd session held on 16 May, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction discussed this proposal for a law on the resolution of the consequences of the Vukovar-Srijem County disaster as a home working body. In the opening presentation of the Deputy Minister of Construction, it noted that the catastrophic floods that hit Vukovar-Srijem County during May and caused the obligation to declare a disaster for the Vukovar-Srijem County area that took place on 20 May 2014. As part of this, the government has also made several decisions, individual ones for the purpose of addressing the effects of the flood due to possible health risks, people's lives, assets and the environment. But since the scale and scope, the intensity of such consequences also caused the need to pass the law since these 7 decisions were not sufficient for this situation to prevail. According to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the programme of reconstruction and resolution of consequences in each administrative area will also be adopted immediately after the entry into force of this law on the resolution of these consequences, of course the proposal and the central authorities of the state administration. For the sake of effective and comprehensive resolution, the consequences of the disaster are determined by law by the competent authorities and deadlines for handling in order to protect the lives and health of people, the protection of animals, property, rights of ownership, environmental protection, natural, economic goods, cultural heritage and create conditions for the establishment of normal life and the continuation of economic, educational and cultural activities. Recovering the consequences requires, among other things, the exemption from the regular procurement procedure, the regulation of a special emergency procedure that enables the rapid renewal of facilities, grants to entrepreneurs and craftsmen who have suffered damages, the employment of unemployed persons in the flooded area, the issue of work for the general good, facilitating the situation in the executive procedures, the regulation of compulsory relations, Croatian defenders the possibility of postponing loans, the right to housing, their right to residential care beyond established order, students free of charge in schools and insurance and the provision of necessary documents in order to exercise their rights without payment of fees and to facilitate the status of students when enrolment in academic 2014/2015. The urgency of the procedure is justified by the need to establish daily life, but also by the scope and intensity of the consequences that cannot be removed by the regular action of the competent authorities. According to the proposal, the law would enter into force on the first day of its publication in "The People's News" and would be valid for a year because it counts until then that a previous situation could be established in flooded areas. And of course, in a debate that was comprehensive, the need for the adoption of this law is supported, whose measures will allow for the rapid resolution of the consequences of the catastrophic flood in those areas and create the possibility of returning to normal life and activities. However, clarification of Article 12 of the Law has also been requested, in particular in the case of type projects, i.e. definitions of these types of projects, i.e. square meters in the flood of lost housing and potential financial compensation. It also pointed out the need for legislation to cover and the rest of the infrastructure to be affected, so it also dipped and channels and an electric power grid, not just road infrastructure. And since the proposed law enters into force on the day of its publication in the "National Journal" the issue of insurance of financial resources in the state budget, i.e. the need for an emergency procedure to amend the Budget Act for 2014 for re-use of funds, but the answer is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself can re-use up to 5%, and the assessment is or is assumed to be only 2% of the answer, I am talking about the answer. And after the debate was held, of course, the Committee on Space Planning decided by majority of votes, unanimously to support and propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Rehabilitation of the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81581	Thank you too, President of the Board. Do the representatives of the other committees want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The club of representatives of the Independent List in the Croatian Parliament and representatives Damir Kain and Ivan Grubisic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81582	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I also agree that as soon as possible to remove these difficulties should go with the budget rebalance, but what is certainly necessary is to normalise the opportunities. And that's why I'm saying that this law is necessary, it's timely and it's highly commendable. Extraordinary circumstances require, how to express myself, extraordinary laws. Croatia shows and should say it works best "in exceptional circumstances". And let's be fair between ourselves, ever since this disaster occurred in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County or Eastern Slavonia, the government has made, if I'm not mistaken, some 10 decisions and those decisions are currently made and can even quote them here. Since the decision to declare a disaster for the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a number of other individual decisions for the purpose of resolving the consequences, such as the decision to determine the important interest of the Republic of Croatia for the purchase of goods, services, works, in order to prevent the prevention of infectious diseases, decision on the granting of interventions for the recovery of damages on public and non-classified roads, Decision on the write-off of part of the lease, compensation for long-term leases for fishers, concessions, etc., agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, Decision on the measure of assistance to the population affected by the floods in relation to the issue of personal documents, Decision on the approval of the costs incurred to help the population directly affected floods, decision on the granting of goods aid and strategic supplies to supply, the provision of housing, the provision of housing, the management of the decision of the management of the management of the economy and the decision of the decision to removes and the decision to implement. I said, this law is necessary. Of course, Croatian citizens have also been solidarity with the flooded Slavonia. Not only have they been solidarity with Eastern Slavonia or Croatian regions, but our citizens have been solidarity and this is good with the opportunities of this great disaster, the apocalypse that has hit both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. And to make a joke, I'm glad our citizens cheered for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Argentina for Bosnia and Herzegovina the way they were supposed to cheer when we played Brazil for Croatia. And that's good. What? We even sing together, we have some songs together, etc. And that's good. And that shows that in an accident, gentlemen of the HDZ, the heart is great, whatever someone simply says. Anything possible to help clear that legal texts should be regulated. And every ministry from, say, the Ministry of Health to the School of Transport to Finance, from agriculture to culture, from the Ministry of Reconstruction to the Economy, from the Social to the Police or not, should be involved in the restoration of the flood of the injured eastern Slavonia. Today, Slavonia, tomorrow do not give God perhaps another part of the Republic of Croatia. If we exclude war, if we exclude refugee drama in the last 20 years, my court probably has not seen a greater tragedy or more cataclysm than these floods happen to Croatia. Here, among other things, on the other side of this legislative proposal, it is said that the resolution of the consequences of the disaster requires an exemption from the regular prescribed procurement procedure in such a way that the provisions of public procurement regulations do not apply to the supply of goods, services, works whose estimated value is less than European thresholds, etc. And I think it's also necessary and simply necessary in this way to regulate the procedure itself as quickly as possible. It is clear that there should be some super-auditor who will oversee and control the spending of not small ones, but rather considerable funds. It would be good for Brussels to help the Republic of Croatia in some way, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I think we're going to wait for their help and the bulk of the burden will just fall on us. In my view, at least, that the key articles in this legislative proposal, Article 5, or Article 12, for the purpose of disaster resolution, have been declared in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County affected by the flood, the provisions of public procurement regulations do not apply to the supply of goods, services, etc. That is, as I said in Article 12, that the measures for the renovation of the building relate to the restoration of existing buildings, which was also spoken by the chairman of the board. Building of public purposes for commercial buildings, residential buildings, and illegally built buildings for public purposes, commercial buildings, etc. etc. Clearly, all these buildings need to be renovated. It costs, but it should be done and it should be done as soon as possible. But I repeat, the competitions need to be accessed as honestly as possible. What's worst here isn't just one generation. Here in these floods I dare say everything that many generations in the area have created has been killed. And these people, in the right sense, start from the beginning. And that's why it's particularly important for people to get a job either in agriculture, whether in trade, or in some trade, or in a small economy. What I also think is important are Article 35 of the exemption from paying rents, rents, and compensation for the use of business premises and apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia, which will be released from these existing leases, i.e. rents. In any event, Article 37 where the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts may grant grants to small-scale operators in accordance with the programmes set out in this Act. What I would suggest is that these companies dealing with mine removal and hearing these floods move minefields means that these companies are not free of VAT payments because we no longer know the zero rate of the same rate than we do, but that VAT is reduced to the least possible measure by some kind of differentiated rate of 5 or 10%. It's not a big asset, but it probably would have helped these societies greatly in their work. Otherwise, removing mines from one square metre costs if I don't cheat 1 euro with VAT. Without VAT, it could mean around 6.25, 20 I don't know nine kuna, but now it doesn't matter. He said my opinion that a different rate of VAT should be introduced here. Article 46 speaks of the fact that during the duration of the disaster and the recovery and one year after the completion of the disaster resolution, no compensation will be charged for the use of water and water protection fees prescribed by the sublaws adopted under the Water Economy Financing Act. For the purposes of Article 48 of the Probation Office, a convict may be assigned to work for the general good in the place of execution independently of the distance from his place of residence, etc. And I think that's just as logical, that's good. Instead of playing golf, let people get in trouble. The delays in the loan payments to me are certainly the condio sine qua non, however parallel with it should be restored to the embankments, to build that water infrastructure, to raise these trafostations, electricity. I'm sure it's all done. Yesterday, Minister Doncic spoke of the Croatian Roads investment of 100 million kuna in the area, in one word, all possible measures or ways should be helped by the unhappy or that end. In this accident, Croatia has "lucky" that it reacted in time, that 12 thousand people were killed, in BiH 900 thousand in Serbia something less but also much more than in Croatia. Clearly, the inhabitants of Eastern Slavonia had no luck with what had happened but an accident. If necessary, in my court, one special fund that would be filled like other parafiscal funds should also be considered, e.g. Croatian waters or what I know about Croatian roads, where 300, 400 or 500 million kunas may be accumulated annually if the accident occurs and, yes, with these means, the events of this elemental disaster could be eliminated. If the funds are not used normally direct them to a second year budget or keep them but then release the companies, citizens of the issue of such a charge. All in all, I think this is a time-consuming law, that this is one commendable law. This law continues to regulate those measures taken in the first days after the apocalypse hit us, just like that, the flood of almost biblical proportions and I repeat, it shows that Croatia works best when under quotes it is "existentially endangered" or in exceptional circumstances. And to the end, congratulations to all those who have come to help Eastern Slavonia. Croatia also proved to be as unique as it was in '91. I repeat, we will support this law, we think that it is commendable, timely, and I think that there is also room to think about the rebalancing of the budget so that all of this and the financial acts can be harmonised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81583	The rest of the time isn't it? I have Grubisic-Kain on my application, no, won't you? Thank you very much. Then we have replicas. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81584	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Cain, you spoke of some kind of minimal or I don't know what kind of help from Europe, obviously you're on the line of what the Prime Minister himself said we're going to ask for help from Europe in order. Afterwards, the foreign and European affairs minister with the the thesis that the damage must be greater than 0.68% of GDP in order to get direct assistance from the EU. So I'm wondering, and I'm asking you, do you know at all or do you calculate the total damage to compare that total damage if anything else to the 0.68%? You said the transport minister said the damage on the roads was 100 million kuna public. Has anyone made an effort at all to sum up the total damage, and the commissions have already passed, in order to seek extraordinary assistance from the EU does not work but indeed because of the need, so that if the share were greater than 0.88%, additional funds for the restoration of this area of Cvelferia and not that we are solely looking for these domestic funds? It turns out that, according to some of the ministers' decisions and per programme, we planned the flood in projects, and now, from regular funds withdrawn from the EU, projects to rebuild in flooded areas are also entering. We are asking for extraordinary funds from the EU, not order. I don't know, you obviously have the same opinion as the prime minister, so it seems to have nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81585	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81586	Whether or not this damage has been determined, I don't know, but I'm sure if it's not going to be relatively soon. But at this point, there are far more priorities to be addressed or dealt with by the departments in charge. I'm not a Eurosceptic, to be clear, but according to that people's trust in your pecs as well, I want to believe that we will get some "minimum assistance" from Brussels under quotes, but I also assure you that Croatia is far more isolated in this joint Brussels or European fund than in Brussels. I would like to remind you that if I am not mistaken in 2013 for the period from 1.07 to 31.12 we have paid this "Brussels administration" under quotes about a billion and 500 million kuna, that we may have withdrawn 50 million kuna more. That this year we're paying about $4 billion and whether we're going to withdraw that or some more money than that remains to be seen. But what is the biggest problem, which our priorities simply determine in Brussels, and that in the government or ministries alone, we determine what to spend these 4 billion kunas on in order to be far higher than what the Brussels administration often does, often conditioning that certain jobs are done, is good for me logically, international competitions, but by buying their material that is not produced in this area. I repeat once again, I hope for this European Union's minimal assistance, but as long as this procedure passes normally this administration in Brussels, we have no one to rely on but ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81587	Thank you very much. Second replica, the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81588	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Cain, you know, you came out here more like a sketch with some stories about brotherhood and unity, and I know you said that just to kind of provoke someone here, but I'm not going to say it for you, no replica, but for yourself. Leave your brotherhood and unity at home, cat on tail. I am not the mayor of Zagreb who wants to be the mayor of Yugoslavia. But I don't want to hear that kind of nonsense anymore. No one favors Croatia in the environment, Croatia is in fact, not in hostile terms, but in one environment between Slovenia and Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So Bosnia and Herzegovina cheers the strongest against Croatia. It would be as clear as Croatia and Bosnia, if they were cheering for Bosnia, it would be logical. It is clear to me why Serbs cheer if Croatia and Serbia play for Serbia, it is fine, but in Bosnia they cheer against Croatia because it is Croatia. And that's their thanks to Croatia for all we've received from them half a million refugees, what we've hired, we've drunk, we've armed them, we've helped them create a country, we've cured them 20 years after the war, we've treated them in Split. That's their thanks for everything. And this is what Croatia receives thanks in this regard for wearing Brazilian flags in both Zenica and Mostar and Sarajevo. And enough of this nonsense. In this House, such stories are no longer a place. Croatia has also helped the entire Yugoslavia throughout the South, and you have seen what Yugoslavia has done to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81589	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81590	Either we don't know Bosnia or we're talking about different Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can talk about Ahmich, etc. but I won't because the tragedy is happening, because the tragedy in Bosnia passed the Croatian people. I'm not talking about any brotherhood and unity, but I'm talking about solidarity, about help, about the understanding that the peoples of these areas have shown in these moments towards each other. I watched this game in which Bosnia played with Argentina, I think our reporters followed the meeting perfectly, and in some ways "cheers for a good start of the Bosnia and Herzegovina team". The morning I woke up also listening to that joint band,... They sing that song and talk about the need to seek help for both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that this kind of thinking of you is just beyond the needs of a joint performance that you will be convinced to be more and more in the future, and yet no one advocates brotherhood and unity, but to advocate one solidarity and a good neighborhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81591	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the esteemed representative Ivica Mandic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81592	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will, at the beginning of the presentation in front of the Croatian People's Party club, express my regret, that about one such important law, we go to topics that have nothing to do with this law. What I would say is that I am glad that members of the Croatian Army, Croatian police, Croatian aviation, the Mountain Rescue Service, not only saved the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they helped others equally in the accident. I think that is primarily human and that we should congratulate our country on Croatia and all those who have given their skills and opportunities to save other lives. What we in the Croatian People's Party Club expected all political parties in the Croatian Parliament on this proposal, this law that we are passing by an emergency procedure, will surely speak affirmably in the desire that these unhappy people in the flooded areas will be helped as soon as possible and we will pass as high-quality law as possible without any tails. What I would also say in this introduction is that we live in a time of significant events and significant changes in weather conditions and, first of all, to all of us, especially those in representative, especially those in executive power, to significant climate change and to a significant event and a significant response to these possible changes. So these changes aren't one time, they'll be very likely to be more and more and we'll have to react more and more often. This last elemental disaster has turned into a disaster, and it has hit one part of the Republic of Croatia more precisely Vukovar-Srijem County, seven settlements with consequences that have had significant impact on the safety, health of people, animals, property and everything else. What is important in all these unfavorable events that the Republic of Croatia has always shown extremely high solidarity so far and that in a very short time more than 50 million kunas have been collected, with voluntary contributions from citizens, which by various activities. I think it's safe to commend every citizen for every call and every good deed to people who are in an accident we should say thank you very much. What is also important to note is that according to independent media estimates, the damages in eastern Croatia, Bosnia and Serbia are several times greater than they were in the last Homeland War or the last of these events in the 1990s wars in this area. What is the obligation and this law and all of us to live as soon as possible back to those areas, that almost all citizens who left their homes to return to their homes as soon as possible. For these reasons, we are passing this law by emergency procedure, so that certain activities that are important in the recovery and in the construction and return of life to those areas, so that they have as soon as possible, so that they have as good dynamics as possible. Since we are now arriving at a time and favorable construction work, it would certainly be good to do one of the biggest jobs and finish up by autumn. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia declared the area a disaster on 20 May, and since then, the crisis headquarters which I also commend on this occasion has been working on, that all activities since the takeover of headquarters have gone in the right direction and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the crisis headquarters have had full control of all developments in these areas. Given all the possible difficulties that could have arisen from infectious diseases, both humans, animals and all kinds of things, I think that crisis headquarters and central government authorities are competent, that they have done their best and that there have been no accidents or unwanted excesses that could have significantly endangered both safety and life and citizens in the past. What's also important is that from a catastrophic flood it's been 30 days, and we can proudly look back at that disaster that struck many fates, that the Republic of Croatia has in one appropriate, humane way been able to respond to disaster and these people fit for such opportunities and set them up. What we should also say is that by establishing a crisis headquarters, the government has since made dozens of different decisions that should have been supported by certain activities that took place in the flooded area. Since the number, by assessing the crisis headquarters, is particularly the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is estimated that decisions are not sufficient, it would certainly be better to declare a disaster and issue a special law for this flooded area. For these reasons, we pass this law. What I would say is that this disaster occurred primarily because of the great rainfall, and primarily because of the shooting of the Sava River flood near the village of Heaven. What would certainly be necessary is for the competent, independent bodies to precisely establish the reasons why the shooting of this distillery occurred, and I think that it is particularly interested in the citizens who died in this disaster, and besides all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What I would mention is that from the area affected by this disaster, 11000 500 inhabitants have been evacuated and settled, whether near relatives or other centres, that over 2700 houses, 4700 economic buildings, and that 438 houses have been declared dangerous housing houses. The largest number of houses is in Gunja, 182, Račinovci 145, Rajev village 100, Strošinci 9,... The Posavia Rats. What is also important is that thanks to the crisis headquarters and certain parts of the state administration, they have been on the ground since the first day of the inspection service that they are doing today, so today we have about 40 inspectors from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction who are assessing the damages that have taken place and which will essentially be the main basis for the decision on how to resolve it. According to unofficial estimates, reconstruction costs in the disaster area are expected to be around over 500 million kuna. This is a very large sum of money and at a time when our budget and budget revenues are very tense, we believe that all of us sitting here have this responsibility to support all those decisions that will enable and secure these funds. What is also important when some colleagues wondered what would happen to the money from legalizing the facilities? Here we can see that the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction from the positions of the budget that the ministry has provided for over 200 million kunas that will go towards the resolution of these consequences. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposes that certain provisions of this law and Articles 40, 46, 50, 51, 52, 53 have a return effect in order to cover the period from the adoption of this Decision in order to address the consequences of the disaster. In this law it is precisely defined in 15 chapters in which this law will apply in reality from health protection, reconstruction to Croatian defenders, science and education, and cultural goods and cultural infrastructure. What is the main task of all of us, and of this law to return life to this area as soon as possible and to pay particular attention to the life of the OPG which has not been destroyed only one year of production, but two annual productions and sowings have been destroyed in 2013 and the sowing of 2014 have disappeared. A number of livestock funds have disappeared from the area, and there is a commitment from the ministry to compensate people for the damage suffered as soon as possible. It is important that the Republic of Croatia, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the process of assistance, have shown a high degree of solidarity so that many OPGs from the wider region of Slavonia and Baranja as from Like have provided and sent large amounts of necessary food for the food and care of evacuated cattle. What is important is that this law has a limited effect, that its activity is one year long, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to carry out an evaluation of all central authorities in cooperation with local and regional self-government units and if we meet EU conditions we can seek some of the funds. What the government of the Republic of Croatia feels is that it would be good to do this together with the neighbours of BiH and Serbia, I do not think it will reduce the aid that our citizens who have suffered great damage and expect. A concrete amendment to Article 19 will be made as a party, and it concerns the restoration of broken houses or damaged houses among citizens who have secured their goods. Here I think we must not bring citizens who have taken care of their property in a quality way because they have ensured their facilities that the government of the Republic of Croatia is looking for if they are asked to rebuild the policy for the benefit of the state. Here I think we should allow the citizen if he wants to rebuild himself so that he can carry out his own policies on the basis of his own, and that he can use or benefit that accelerated procedure. I think there's just one practical problem here, that we should make it possible for citizens if they have already ensured that they have the possibility of solving themselves in their own way much faster and much more quality. The HNS Club will support the proposal of this law, and it is our desire that all clubs give their proposals to get one quality law that we will pass by consensus because Croatians in difficult, complex times are the best officials, and this is certainly a difficult and complex time for all those citizens who have lost everything they have in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81593	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81594	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Mandic, you said that very well. We need to discuss this law to make it as good as possible, here are some amendments, and I believe that the proposer will carefully consider them, some and put them in this legislative proposal. But unfortunately, we are witnessing that this very difficult and serious topic is also being used for day-to-day political purposes and we are witnessing politicization. So I don't know how or what logic anyone can come from these topics to Yugoslavia, to who he was rooting for at football games and question our relations with neighbors. Don't you think it's sad? Don't you think it's a disgrace? That we owe those people affected by the floods one quality law and quickly solve their problem and help them, not talk about the wings of the former state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81595	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81596	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. Well, at the beginning of the club, I said and expressed regret that we shouldn't create enemies of those we don't have. Croatian citizens and Croatian people are not a people who hate someone and we have always gone with as many friends as possible. And some of the fellow members of parliament who are also free and that is their position, I do not think that they are in minority favour of the Croatian state, which is in its own form a bit unusual. Therefore... should also seek good neighbourly relations, respect all citizens, all neighbours and all people regardless of their ethnic, national, religious or political belongings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81597	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81598	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Mandić and your debate and certainly all the debates that will take place in the context of this law that we are passing under emergency procedure is such that a consensus should be reached in the Croatian Parliament on this. There is no reason for any of us to discuss politically, that on the back of the disaster and more force that hit Vukovar-Srijem County and all the end of the floods not only Croatia but our neighbours, there is no place for any policy. It doesn't even matter who went there first or who he was, who he wasn't, it's important how people live in temporary accommodation today, whether they are provided with all the minimum living conditions that at least feel at home as to where they are currently located. And the most important question is how to protect, the first human lives we managed to save, preserve health, prevent the disaster of the spread of the disease, and now we need to protect the property of the people it's your job, Mr. Minister, security in Gunja, and that's what flood-affected areas don't talk very much publicly, but I'm sure there are problems, such information comes from the field. And we in the Croatian Parliament need to respect Croatia's legal regulations, allow if it is necessary to change the budget, the rebalancing should do so and bring all the laws in line with the fact that this law is in an urgent process and that it is truly for the benefit of the people. And every other policy on the back of those who have suffered badly is inappropriate and the Croatian Parliament should return to the context of political debates. Sometimes it's better to keep quiet so as not to give consent to what's being said than to say something that has nothing to do with common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81599	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81600	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So at the end of my debate, I said I would invite all my colleagues and all the political parties in the Croatian Parliament to a consensus because this was a disaster that hit one part of Croatia and which deserves such behaviour and behavior. I haven't touched and gone into politicizing for a moment. And the best example of how we should behave in the Croatian Parliament has been shown by citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this disaster. We do not need to look for other examples from world politics, just to see how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are from Konaval, Umag, Čakovec, to any part of the Republic of Croatia, as we have done. Because we are essentially the result of the vote of our citizens so let's not disappoint them, let's not conduct discussions that are not going to help these people. What I stand for, as well as you, is that we are the first ones to adhere rigorously, to implement and enforce the laws we have passed. So from these rates and I ask that the Proposer or the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, after these discussions, should respect all of these, all those remarks that lead primarily to the transparency of behaviour and implementation and the application of all the laws that we bring here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81601	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81602	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Mandic, I fully agree with you that we should do everything possible to bring this law into line, that this may be a consequence, so the adoption of the law of the general consensus is because it really needs to help people who have suffered incredibly badly. But to do so, we must do absolutely everything to ensure that this law is primarily in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because the Constitution in the '90s says that the budget is passed in the Croatian Parliament by majority of the votes of the MPs and that each legislative proposal must, of course, clearly indicate where the budgets come from. I am saying this because I think Article 4 of this law is unfortunately not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it foresees the possibility of doing so if we adopt this law precedent. So that only through one law, the redistribution can be made greater than the one provided for by the Budget Law. And that's why it's important because if something becomes a precedent, so many others can call on it. Let's say in the Law of Turning to write that there will be a redistribution greater than what is possible through the Budget Law. And I can call on that fact many others. So that's why I think it's very important, unusually important that we bring every detail of this law into line with the laws and the Constitution. Because I think it is difficult for this law to derivate, for example, the provisions of the Budget Act or the Budget Law. That would be a precedent, I repeat for the future. So that's why we need to talk openly about what we think are open issues and try to change them by the end of the debate. We can still do that to the amendments. However, as regards the Budget Law No, you should go to his... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81603	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81604	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Kosor, I am not to be made any precedent. Therefore, I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and will adapt this law to that way. What I would especially like to appeal to is that we must take care and keep time here because time is passing quickly. Every day now is very important because summer will pass quickly, autumn will pass, winter will come, what will we do with these people? Therefore, I think that here we must have understanding of this law that it is really made by acquiring circumstances under a hasty procedure and that the role of all of us, all political parties, is to make this law such that we respect all the fundamental values that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81605	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81606	Thank you very much. Comrade Mandic, I said on Friday that the HDZ Club is about this law being passed by consensus and bringing it in as soon as possible. So that's something that's undeniable. But what I've reported for the replica, I'm asking you from Mrs. Secretary Anki Mrak-Taritash 200 million kuna. Well, don't keep it in your pocket, she doesn't keep it in the register. So the problem is that money, you say money from legalization. Well, she doesn't have the money in the ministry's cash, they're part of the total income. For some incomes only you have that are strictly determined and therefore I have told you and the other colleagues of the Kukuriku coalition, change the Law on budget implementation if you will not go to budget rebalancing. And the other thing, how blind are you from every minister every day walking and promising there, so look at the Croatian Parliament brought the Croatian Roads Financial Plan and Minister Hajdas-Doncic left yesterday and said I will give 100 million. He cannot give 100 million until most hands are collected here to change the Croatian Roads' Finance Plan. And no MP will raise his hand against that plan, he'll raise his hand for it, but the minister can't do it, and that's what I've been trying to warn you all along. But no, here you still insist on some things. Ministers walk every day and promise what they can't do. I can't. My colleagues and colleagues, you are all using a computer, go, take the Budget Act Article 46, and that is the only way you can share funds. The 2014 budget law does not provide you with any practical possibility of such major redistributions. So you saw during the rebalance of the government's budget the problem was to reduce 500 000 kunas to a position, and now it should be reduced by 500 million kuna positions to re-use the damage. Well, it would have been fairer if we'd gone into budget rebalancing and increased the deficit by 500 million kuna and said that's the means to help the flooded. That would be fairest, most concrete and wisest. It wouldn't be politically hypocritical what we experience every day. But I'm saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81607	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81608	Just one sentence, please. No minister can say that he has money for it because he doesn't have any.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81609	Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81610	Thanks a lot, buddy. Well, first of all, I cannot accept your finding that the ministers are not pilgrims and that they are not going to be pilgrims. I think it's an obligation by the executive to have a catastrophic area affected by the flood, to have ministers tour and normally give these people hope of how to help. Why do you think the prime ministers of individual states in any disaster, any tragedy goes to that place? ... Well, that's right, for those very reasons, people have said how they're going to help. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you think 100 million kunas should not be invested in this area? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81611	If you're gonna talk like that, I'm paying for coffee, go down to the coffee shop. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81612	Therefore, I am sure that ministers do not pilgrimage, ministers do their job on the ground and give people faith in return because both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and all MPs are aiming to get all 11 500 people evacuated back to their homes, and they can return to their homes if they have normal living conditions. If we compete here and fight who's right, then make sure they go back five years, and then no one comes back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81613	Thank you very much. ... Please, colleagues, you can discuss who is right, only in a parliamentary way, so one by one, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81614	Thank you very much. My colleague Mandic, you've had quite a debate, but some of the things you said and when you spoke about pride, especially the citizens of Croatia have shown from day one a high degree of solidarity with those who have experienced cataclysm in the area of Cvelferija and all the villages of Cvelferija, that I do not now list them. After some time this acute threat of floods has passed, there are indeed rumors from the people on the ground of problems with the security of citizens and property in the Gunja area and some other villages, then that instead of taking animal carcasses to the burner, they are burying thousands of metres from the centre of Posavina Rats and that pit in which animal carcasses are buried there is no one right to access, no citizens or journalists, that it was preserved by the MUP of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is also a matter of order or order of actions on the ground, and there is a certain problem. We watched flowers plant around the Drenovci Municipality, and in Gunja the houses are still unscheduled, not cleaned and there is no preparation, slow running and preparation for restoration and return to those houses. Here we have seen in the Drenovs on TV how these workers who are employed through the state plant flowers around Drenovci Municipality. So he's got problems, and he needs to deal with them. I am in favour of this law and we are all consensual for this law to be passed, but some things have to be said, no matter what news from that field is commendable, etc., a bit like... and problems exist on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81615	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81616	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, we were witnesses when the Ministry of the Interior made a decision to ban entry into certain settlements. Well, that decision wasn't about the whim of the police or anyone seeing their house. Just for the sake of security and in that first time Croatian police and crisis headquarters played their part. What you're saying is happening now, so clearly that certain individuals who are prone to such activities as you're talking about, these are optimal conditions for them. And that is why it is even greater responsibility for the Croatian police to keep the area special. And normally, those measures that weren't popular brought their results. Measures on the safety of the burial of dead animals can bring in competent inspections of the service in which such matters can be taken care of, with certain measures of disinfection and all other matters in view of costs and all other matters. Generally, I would also support your observation that the Ministry of Interior, the Croatian police must pay special attention to these excesses that would happen in terms of alienation, anything, because I say these people are particularly sensitive who have run out of anything. Now that he's got a little bit of that, it must be a bigger tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81617	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Mandic, you have on several occasions expressed great satisfaction with the government's reactions by making decisions on the ground. And you also said that Croatian citizens were self-organizing and this is exactly what this disaster showed, that the government was unprepared and that it reacted with delay and that the citizens were self-organizing. But that's not why I answered. I called to say that it's probably our goal, too, to make the law good. It would have been even better if we had already brought it, we could have already brought it, but to be able to implement what many have already warned about here. And it's not clear to me when a law like this is passed why we don't have right here already finished tables, rules on how the damage, by which criteria they'll settle, why it's not in the attachment, why it wasn't done to make everyone know. These people don't have any more, just don't let anyone have more heart to these people prepare another possible disappointment. Because when this law is passed people will think the matter is settled, they will, everything will be solved. He won't get rid of it. There'll be problems. And that's why it might be better if next week the Parliament didn't go on vacation than to still discuss this law until in detail and when it's brought that then people down know exactly what's waiting for them. I'm also not clear in this part you were saying about agriculture why there's no Brod-Posavia County in here. There was a problem here, too. There's no damage to war cultures. Why don't we mention them? 55 million kuna is reportedly damage only in Vukovar-Srijemska, in those areas according to local self-government data that you haven't talked about. And it was these people who were down in the field when the government took a nap.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81619	Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81620	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, you are the leader of the local self-government unit, you know how rescue protection works. We have a municipal, city or county headquarters. We're talking about the government's fault. Did anyone mention community headquarters? Did anyone mention the county headquarters? And I don't think it's time to look for the guilty now. Now it's time to look for the culprit, now it's time to look for ways to help these people. You well know which are, which is part-round work of the Centre for the Rescue of Municipal, City, County. The state intervened the moment she felt it was necessary and declared a disaster. And I think it's well done and well done, that it could have been better. Probably with the experiences we have and from this disaster for another disaster, we'll be better, better quality, and we'll react sooner. But let's not ask that someone else is always guilty. Let's start somehow by thinking maybe we're guilty ourselves sometime. Do you agree with that? I've been talking about agricultural damage, I know what it is, and I said two years have been lost, and in terms of livestock production for years. In addition to this law that has a width of 15 chapters that can be any law separately, certain programmes will go to the central authorities and units of local and regional self-government. The government will accept that. The other way to be quick can't be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81621	Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague I wouldn't agree with your presentations, and I'd say there are problems before the trouble of saying so, before these floods are born. But you said one word, he said he would ask for the government and for the help of the European Union. So how will he ask when our prime minister said when the journalists asked him at the beginning of the flood, but I'm going to ask for that order, as it were, and there's nothing. Not to say he said when he came to Vukovar-Srijem County, he said you had a nice village and such statements. Well, that's a country president's nebulosis. And you know where my colleague's biggest problems are? I come from Požeško-Slavonska County and my village, the town of Pleternica and the town of Gradac which belongs to Pleternica was first flooded in the Republic of Croatia. 385 houses were flooded, 70 million kunas were damaged, on agricultural surfaces, on residential buildings. No one from the Government of the Republic of Croatia has visited us, no one has asked us about the damage or the problems. And you know what the problems are? 40 days ago, almost 60 days ago, I as a representative at the Croatian Parliament and my mayor are looking for a meeting with Croatian Waters Director General Plisic. To this day, it wasn't just a meeting to be arranged. And what do we really want? What we're trying to do is tell him to provide us with the funds, make projects to build a major dam project that's about to protect this area from these floods. You know how much this project costs not only designing but building? 15 million kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, these are the problems. So today, we need to solve the problem essentially so that in a year, two, three, there are no such problems. He will neither receive me nor my mayor. So how do we build a system to defend ourselves from the flood? These are the problems, Mr. President of the Parliament. And I ask you to with your intercession
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81623	Your time is up first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81624	I know, but let me. Please, secure that meeting to ensure the citizens of this facility and protect them. And not to complain after 70 million is damage. Here, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81625	First you must respect the Rules of Procedure, fellow MPs and everything else will be written down, recorded and given an insight into everyone concerned. You know that on the Web pages of the Parliament are all your discussions. Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81626	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucic and I would have started, the problems didn't just begin with this flood. Republic of Croatia since 1990. The year has its own independence and could have dealt with it in a good way with its policies. What I agree with you is that we certainly need to solve preventive problems. Here I can announce a thematic session of the Committee of Spatial Planning and Construction where we will try to see with the help of the profession how the Republic of Croatia can best defend against floods. But that's preventive. So what we're talking about is supposed to be subdued by the profession. You are talking about the EU here, so normally the EU is a community of countries where you need to come up with cost arguments. You can't tell us we have the cost of 500 million, give us that much. And listen first, you have to see how much damage they really are and on the basis of whether or not we meet the criteria. If we don't meet the criteria, it's unsuccessful. Because Europe is ruling in certain laws and certain measures in which something can be done. You said here that no one visited you from the Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think someone should have come, but my colleague Shucker would probably have said they've come to pay homage. That's why it's not good, too, it's my opinion that the ministers in all the catastrophes, in all these ugly events, should show their presence and that human compassion by coming. I think that's the order, and that's the way we should set up in Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81627	Thank you very much. We have completed the replicas and answers to the replicas of the respected representative Ivica Mandic. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Now there are Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81628	Dear Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I want to believe that all of Croatia after this disaster, the flood, will learn some lessons. I believe that it will finally be understood in Croatia that the defence against the flood is not led by the construction of the embankment along the riverbed, and someone mentioned that they would like to hear the truth about the shooting of the embankment, why the rash broke. We'll find out sooner and we'll know, we'll have, and we'll take away the damage than we'll ever know why the rash broke. The second experience that I hope has been gained is the need for faster coordination of local and state authorities in terms of decision making when the State Crisis Centre must take over the affairs it has taken because, apparently, by my court, it is still 2, 3 days late to intervene in the formation of the State Crisis Headquarters because they could not deal with the local problems. The proposal for this law and this disaster and the third experience we would need... What we lack in existing laws is that we have to discuss and pass a special law today, and that these days the Government has had to intervene with its regulations or decisions, and now these interventions are incorporated into the law with retroactive application in order to cover their validity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have now discovered that in the Budget Law we do not have a provision on the possibility of redistributing funds within the budget in the event of a disaster. There are no such provisions in the Budget Act. And I think you should be. Now it's a flood disaster, it can be God's earthquake, it can be a fire somewhere else, and then we'll have to outsmart ourselves again whether it's an older budget law or this law. We do not have a provision in the Public Procurement Act that the procedure for public procurement in order to eliminate the consequences of the disaster is an extremely urgent procedure, and we could have such a provision in the law. We don't because when these laws were written, it was obviously never taken into account that there could be a state of emergency other than war in the country. Now we've run another, third experience as far as the law is concerned. That we are a state that collects VAT on donations when a natural or legal person sends food to the flooded. The other day we learned that we charge in donations when someone wants to help demining Croatia and wants to pay two million dollars or euros but it has to pass by taxing VAT. This proposal for a law in Articles 11 and 38 mentions the release of VAT payments, I believe Article 11 is in the health portfolio and Article 38 is in the entrepreneurship sector. And therefore immediately a concrete proposal from the Minister, all donations relating to the removal of the consequences of the disaster, whether in money, food, disinfection, disinfection, deratiation, construction material, equipment of machinery and mineral raw materials, must be exempt from value added tax. Is there any logic that people, not just citizens, but also a large number of businesses, have been involved in helping, and that we do not systematically have a solution to the question that there is simply no value added tax on such interventions as it would finally be necessary to download VAT on demining donations and donations of social transfers, for example when a company or citizen donates a soup kitchen, and here is mentioned also school cuisines, free meals, when a company donates school cuisine with food would have to pay VAT. ... Read the law and you'll see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The donations of humanitarian character were not released to value added tax, and this proves that the government had freed the VAT with its decision and responded to that phone call by teleoperator and thus covered that the VAT had not gone. The government gives itself great authority with this law, and I stress this because of a public who must not remain convinced that by adopting this law, all rules on the elimination of the consequences of the flood will be resolved. The key to the word programs, programs is brought by government or various state resources, and only on these programs will you see what the victims in this flood are interested in. So, the government has asked and apparently, and we will support this law, too, to gain great authority. This law provides frameworks and opportunities, and the key word is programmes in areas or zones, if I am not mistaken, the law defines programmes in areas and, if necessary, areas within a given area. Article 19 provides that the state will take the money to rebuild buildings from that money obtained by legalising illegal buildings. Our second proposal by the Minister, this is an ideal opportunity to finally resolve the issue of how the State will benefit from the property taken away by the decision of the competent judicial authority in criminal proceedings of illegally acquired property. Wouldn't it make sense for the state to now reroute everything that it took away in the proceedings of confiscation of illegally acquired assets to reroute the damage. From money, movables, real estate, anything available to be given into that function. All other countries that have an institution to take away property often gave it for social purposes. This is an ideal opportunity for us to reroute the entire property taken from criminals in Croatia to the resolution of the consequences of the flood. The fourth chapter, which is our problem, is the supervision of the application of this law. It says that the supervision is carried out by the central authorities of the state administration each in its own district. I hope no one attacks me, but I'll be honest. And in this tragedy there are, and there will be, and there will be those who will be rich, who will steal, who will abuse or abuse the law, the procedure, the consequence, and the worst that they will abuse and the fact that there will be no sufficient control. The first such information, I saw yesterday from the Red Cross, which had already begun to warn that food and other aid had already been distributed and used in certain territories. Imagine when buildings, buildings, houses, business spaces, workshops, factories, public buildings take place. Such a defined point of control over the implementation of this law means that everyone and no one are under surveillance. If there will be no second paragraph here in the supervisory point of supervision of the lawfulness of the conduct of the State Authority, because the authorities of the State do not control, which are authorised to enforce this law, will be the body in charge, the bodies we already have in Croatia, then I rightly question that the authorities deliberately wish to avoid supervision. The state of central government cannot control itself. And of course when we talk about abuses, thefts and wealth, I don't think those end-users are going to do it, it's going to be a new point of corruption risk as it is now obviously beginning in the chain of all. Who handles car waste and agricultural... in that area, who got that job? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state pays him this, they bring it up later on, and they sell it, they make double profits. Whoever received an exclusive on the disposal of their waste until now, i.e. someone mentioned the burial of the corpse, I think counterpart Grubisic, don't be surprised that for the corpses that were buried, the invoices came in that they were burned. That's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm warning you about. And if we're not gonna be aware of that now, if only 20% of the money the state is going to single out ends up in gray channels and black funds, in corruption, and bribery and theft, then we haven't done a good thing. And I end up with this one, are we creating a new inequality in Croatia? Namely, we are passing a special law on the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, there is a status of disaster, I understand, but the floods were also in the area of Brod-Posavina and Požeko-Slavon County. That's where the houses were also killed, the farms, crops, cattle. Not in that likely extent and value. Last year or before last, the flood was in Međimurje. That's where the houses were killed, the entire property of the flooded people. Cars, machines, two factories, two farms. However, no one passed a special law and said they had the right to exempt from the executive procedure,... to pay off loans, free food at school, special status of students from that area, state aid in rebuilding houses, workshops, factories, agricultural farms, subsequent damage to dead cattle. It's left to the local community. Shouldn't Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Croatia have a permanent, regular law that regulates the rehabilitation, protection and recovery of the disaster-fed area? Whether it's a flood or an earthquake or a fire. Is the difference, whether the flood has affected and flooded 2.5 thousand houses or 200, if these 200 damages to their owners and the inability to live, agriculture or other production is exactly the same as in the area we are now discussing. And I believe that only by the existence of such a law that will have the same rights and rules in the process of compensation for damages, allowing for the return, recovery, recovery and continuation of normal life as soon as possible. I think that this disaster and this situation would have to be exploited, that after this special law, which applies only to the area of one county, the Government of the Parliament would propose a law of lasting value that would allow for the same rights in the case of smaller, larger or large disasters, all who survive it. And we must not set ourselves on the principle that disaster only if a large number of houses, villages, settlements or areas are covered, because for the fate of people, the amount of damage and their tragedy is equal to whether 200, 2,000 or 12 thousand houses are flooded, these others have never been in Croatia until now, in accordance with these rules that this law provides, they have been assisted by a wider state community for the removal and recovery of damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81629	Comrade Lesar, you have more replicas than your colleague Ivica Mandic. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Damir Rimac, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81630	Dear colleague Lesar, more replicas. First thing, I can agree on your finding that unfortunately someone will take this opportunity to get rich. Yes, the fact is that field work shows that there are human beasts that steal humanitarian aid and humanitarian aid does not come to whoever it belongs to. Yeah, you're right about that. But you're wrong to say, not to use another, rougher word, when you mention the situation in Međimurje County, Brod-Posavia County because there's no disaster there. So I have to warn you because probably as a Međimuran from northwestern Croatia I don't know if you've ever been to Gunja. Gunja is a settlement in Vukovar-Srijem County with 1200 households, so 5,000 people, the population has been evicted, displaced, taken care of outside their homes and practically one settlement has been wiped off the face of the country. Almost 80% of the housing has to be rebuilt. For your information in the making is the new Law on elemental disasters because no government of the Republic of Croatia has ever approached the level of that law, the law is old, it's derutant from '97. A year. A few words about your finding that we cannot redistribute the budget, and that, I quote, Budget Law, Article 46, paragraph 1, budgetary resources cannot be redistributed, except under conditions and in a way, exceptionally, so item 2, redistribution of funds in budgetary items by the budgetary users of the state budget or between budgetary users and non-financial beneficiaries of the state budget can be carried out up to 5% of the expenditure and expenditure on the budget item adopted by the Croatian Parliament if the minister so permits. So, my colleague Shuker, I'm replicating my colleague Lesar, you'll have a chance at me after I've been exposed on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81631	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81632	My friend, I'm surprised at you. You keep causing conflict even when we support you. Something clicked on you and you're giving the wrong quotes. When it comes to redistributing the budget... I didn't say that we couldn't, but that there was no such provision in the Budget Act, but that it might be, I suggest we introduce it. That's what I said, you have to listen when I'm talking and don't automatically attack everything we say and even when we support you, do damage to your party. Secondly, I know what the government said and that it declared a state of disaster and I was in Gunya. You were obviously never in Međimurje because it was over Drava and you don't even know where it was, I was speaking and comparing the condition of the individual who died in the flood when the disaster was declared and the disaster was not declared. Is the result of the loss of the house, the stop, the agricultural machinery and all the property in the house for each other the same? Yes, and suggested that we have a permanent law that will regulate in the same way that they both have the same right to get state aid in removing damage, that's what I'm talking about. And if you think it's not fair, then to those who get hurt, and when the government doesn't declare a disaster, you say simply choose to do it yourself. And in Međimurje, he gave in and broke, and there was a flood because of the shooting of the embankment. Fortunately, 12 thousand houses were not submerged, but those whose houses were lost are nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81633	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81634	Thank you very much. A colleague named Lesar, when you look at Article 38, who says "The grant funds will be provided with in the state budget or through donations and other sources, the donations referred to in paragraph 1 of this article have been exempt from paying value added tax". This provision is legally inconclusive because how, who and in what way but to install this provision into the Budget Implementation Act and if it would be clearly defined if a donation, if you buy it as a citizen, give it to that and that family and follow it all with certain papers, you have the right not to pay the VAT, and that company that sells that refrigerator will show it in one special position that it is freed from that and that. If done in such a way, Article 38 is applicable. And if you go into the Value Added Tax Act to change it, then you're going to make that mess you said was a war, but it's a war and a brother. So this accident, if it happens, will unfortunately be that, and the government if it thinks it will solve it by amending the Value Added Tax Act when we adopt that law. And that's why I did say it and even that it's true that what SDP representatives say is that they can redistribute the funds, so why didn't they do it and why they didn't refer us to this law if that's possible. However, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, it was sometimes said that funds could be redistributed exactly in what way and that the Government had to inform the Parliament within 15 days. But when that provision stood in the House then, on the other hand, the Parliament came under a lot of attacks as to why it was in the Budgetary Act. And that's the provision that I said should be put into the budget law just like for this VAT and some other things, and then this law would be applicable. This is how I responsibly claim that article 38 is inconclusive, so let him speak whatever anyone wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81635	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81636	A fellow Shucker, a similar provision is in Article 11 of the Law, and unlike you, I stand at the view that any donation that goes to the purpose of removing damage from disaster must be exempt from value added tax, that is my personal position and I believe that it should be intervened in the Law on Value Added Tax. You're more professional than me, I admit it to you in that part, so let's try to find a solution together but incomprehensible that the state is charging VAT at the moment when citizens, businesses and foreigners want to help the state. Is this the State Budget Act? Great. Let us go with the 4th proposal of the Government, please propose to amend the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, the Budget Law and address the issue of the unfortunate VAT on donations. How can a state take a tax when someone gives someone a gift to do away with the damage they have suffered?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81637	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81638	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you said a few things here, one of them was that after this disaster, we'd probably learn some lessons. I'm afraid not, that something will surprise us again. You were also talking about VAT and I agree absolutely with you that even in madness you shouldn't charge VAT on donations for humanitarian purposes, I'll say still for sportingly diverse other amateurs. But it'll probably come to that. So watch the VAT on food, let's say it's been required for two years to cut the VAT rate, and now we're saying it might still decrease. But what's important and why I came to the most, you also said that the government is giving itself too much authority by this law. This law is a law of hope for those who have been killed. And that's where you've well-recorded the matter and I agree with you absolutely that without programs and regulations how exactly this law is going to be implemented so that this could become a law of disappointment and there's a problem. And what my colleague Shuker has been saying since Friday here, I really don't see the reasons, I don't know if you agree with it to really prepare until the beginning of the second week to change the decision to execute the budget and to remove any doubts that next week we declare it and that this law really is a law that is enforceable and will be a law of hope, not a law of disappointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81639	The answer to the replica? Nothing. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81640	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you have rightly opened a series of questions that are generally related to the regulation of Croatian legislation regarding such disasters, such cataclysms that have welcomed us, and I think this is the right moment and I support your idea that we use this moment to make a catalogue of laws that we should change so that if God did not give up in the future cataclysm could happen without any problem. Because I strongly support your thinking regarding the possibility of abuse. Unfortunately, Croatian laws are being abused. And those who want to avoid legal obligations, or those who want to abuse for their own benefit, of Croatian laws, are incredibly inventive. And that's why there's danger here too. And to that end, I remind all of our colleagues and colleagues that at the most difficult times when people were saving only a living head with nothing, without a single bag that the robbers showed up, that those who had the courage, incredible madness and incredible corruption had come to rob other people's property. Therefore, it is said here that each area, for each area, will be programmed within 7 days and then 7 days. It would be good if we had these programs along with this law, if we had a clear, so the key to what I'm saying is in these programs, the key will be in these programs, how detailed they will be, how they will actually be directed and directed to those who need it. So we have to and I think that these remarks are quite well-intentioned to rule out any possibility, unfortunately again, that people will abuse the provisions of this law that I absolutely support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81641	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81642	Yes, colleagues, Kosor, unfortunately after every tragedy, there are robbers of the blackburgers who make fun of you. But what is more dangerous in these situations is that without great control, these blackburgers are being watched and those who make decisions and assign some of the jobs to them. I can't and can't make an explicit claim right now because I haven't been able to verify that information, but in this business, the state hired a company that had a situation about a month ago, two days ago when it was due to carry out an inventory of money obtained from the state for the car wrecks taken care of by two large warehouses, two, three days before the state commission arrived, the fire broke out. And they're supposed to be again, that same firm taking care of it and getting.../The speaker doesn't understand./... at that job. When I connect that kind of thing, you see that kind of surveillance I'm talking about. They're blackburgers to me, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81643	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81644	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you have expressed your desire to support such a law but also a desire for a better and enforceable law. You have set several examples that are negative and must be removed if such a law is to be implemented. The situation of disasters is such as this one requires an urgent reaction and haste laws but does not allow us to pass bad laws, non-implementable laws and that derivate other laws. This law changes seven other laws. And the Law on the State Budget and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, the Law on Municipal Activity, the Law on VAT, the Law on Public Procurement, the financial plans of the Croatian highways and everything... That's inadmissible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Regardless of the urgency, it is possible to make a law that is enforceable and that will avoid any inconvenience and those of which you have indicated. It would be unacceptable for anyone to abuse this tragedy of a part of the Croatian people. And it is not foreseen if the procurement procedure is avoided. And the public procurement process provides for who cannot participate in public procurement. It may occur that they are just participating in these those who would be prohibited from participating in the public procurement process. That's what this law should have made impossible. You have rightly warned of the disposal of the corpses, but we do not neglect that the vultures appear here. And it's not just vultures who rob, vultures and those who abuse such a position. Maybe vultures are the ones who sell at higher prices... material if it sells or does not go with a minimum price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because in a situation like this, you can't do that. Maybe the Public Procurement Act will be abused. You asked...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81645	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81646	A colleague, Maric, is just about the public procurement process I am most thinking about preparing a debate on this law. And I understand that it must be intervened with an extremely urgent procedure, because the regular procedure of public procurement in such cases device we all agree is not appropriate. And when I mentioned the lack of good control provisions, I was also making sure that this procedure of assignments will now enable those who do not meet any of the conditions to participate in the procurement process because there is no such clause in this law. So, yes, it's not the public procurement process, it's the decision-making process, but the process excludes those who don't meet the conditions of the procurement process because we ruled them out because they've already done something that they didn't have those conditions. But time is always limited, so I can't explain every proposal for a pay phone much. But it is now evidence, you see, that the existence of a permanent law with a full regulation would remove the first needs of an emergency intervention of the Parliament because the government would already have such powers and the other would have time for all these problems that are now being considered, to be well solved and to reduce the space of corpses, vultures and thefts that unfortunately always come after disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81647	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81648	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar, you quoted me twice, so you mentioned my name when I was talking about this pit in Posavski Podgajac where the corpses are buried and where there is no access to the population, and the media, even though we said it would go to the burner for Zagreb, Ivanić City, where there is a casserole. But what you encouraged me to do in the replica is that the damage to the one who suffered in Croatia's Kostanica or in the Brod-Posavina County, whose crops were completely destroyed due to coastal waters and will have nothing to do with it, so it has to sow again, and there is no special measure for the distribution of seeds, fertilisers, etc., did not cover it but exclusively applies. Of course I am in favour of emergency intervention and the application of this law perfectly correct, as I believe the government's position is therefore to urgently assist this area. Well, then we have the Pleternica and Gradac, and then in Sisak-Moslavina County the floods of 3-4 months ago that were catastrophic and where the prime minister said that you don't live here wouldn't be much damage. I mean, those statements are a disaster. But if we were to further propose your debate, cover the scales and damages of all these floods, only the name of the floods in all these regions and in Požega-Slavonska and Brod-Posavina, mainly Vukovar-Srijem, Sisak-Moslavina and Zagreb County, then I believe we would meet those over the mouth of the hardly said 0.88% of the EU GDP conditions and we could certainly seek help. And if Serbia is not already a member of the European Union but has received a billion euros, on what basis, based on what? 0,68 based on what? And we may be looking for order. Since the flood this year, I am convinced although I am not yet in all data, we have damages greater than 0.88%, floods in all parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81649	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81650	Comrade Grubisic, that's exactly what this is about. If the farmer suffered damage to his crops and lost one or two seasons because of it, he must have the same right to compensate for the damage regardless of whether the flood was at 100,000 hectares, 10,000 hectares or millions of hectares. We must give him the same status because it is the same damage, the same cause and the state must treat him in the area of Sisak-Moslavina, Požeko-slavonian, Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81651	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81652	Thank you. You've actually opened two interesting topics. One you didn't call that, that's the issue of the mafia in Croatia. The mafia in Croatia as well as in all other developed countries of Europe and the world entered a whole series of legal affairs, so it entered Croatia, and the minister knows it very well and better than you and me, and there are no big doubts about it, we had exact information about it or not. And of course the state is fighting and will have to fight even more against this organised crime outside of politics, so the mafia that invests money at illegal sources is turning it into legal affairs and that is present in Croatia. And the other thing is the issue of inequality, so the question is whether we actually act unequally when we help each other, and we didn't recognize the problems of others, so these floods that occurred in the areas you and Mr Grubisic spoke of, which were smaller proportions but also occurred in Požega-Slavon County. But would it help anyone by not passing this law? No, you wouldn't. So what I'm saying is that it's better to help with this law than not to help anyone and do better than to do nothing. Hence, we can always find a section of why we don’t do something else. In every censorship, we can ask ourselves what happens to those who are 5 kuna behind that censorship and have not entered that category and this way of thinking can be applied suddenly. So what I'm saying is that it's really better to do something or what the Chinese say save one soul, you saved the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81653	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81654	Comrade Djurovic, we will support the law, and our proposal was that there was a permanent law to avoid just helping one, not the other. And you're right, I didn't mention the mob. The mafia is an expression of Italian language that marks the gang and, therefore, instead of the mafia, I say Croatia has gangs, not mafias.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81655	Thank you very much in Croatian. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81656	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lesar, it's really good that your club supports this bill, but I don't see why so much skepticism in your debate. In fact, you pointed out that this law would be nothing until the government brought in recovery programs. So you've repeated several times that the key word in this law is the program. Well, of course the key word is the program and the recovery of this disaster will be done by the programs, and in order to do otherwise, the verse. And now you're actually asking the question of the possibility of corruption. Therefore, the government will indeed work on the resolution of this disaster under the programmes for the resolution of the consequences and reconstruction of administrative areas on the proposal of the state administration body, but in cooperation, this is important, in cooperation with local and regional self-government units, so also with companies with public authority, so on Croatian roads, Croatian waters, etc. So this is a really good combination of state and local participants that will ensure that the resolution is implemented in the best possible way by respecting those priorities that the state administration has identified along with local environments as priority. And yes, the flood-related resolution will be carried out beyond the prescribed public procurement procedure because public procurement really does not have room in this catastrophic situation, it does not make sense. However, the renewal, i.e. the resolution of the consequences, will be carried out with respect to all the principles set out in the EU's founding contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81657	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81658	Dear colleagues, Jelash, I have not expressed my skepticism. I said the government asked for this law, and they'll get great powers. All right, that's all I warned you about. I wasn't skeptical at all. I suggested we have a law like this all the time. I suppose you'll agree that it would be good, not that we need to intervene. However, that there are problems and disagreements on the ground not only because we are now passing different criteria. Here's an example that came in. An 80-year-old woman placed, 88 temporarily taken care of in a temporary home for elderly helpless people. She lived in Gunja with a disabled son who had children, a house to tear down. And the state put her in a private home, took care of her temporarily, okay? I don't know where her son is disabled with children. But what did the private home do? He found another son of that mother who lives in St. Weeks and asked the owner of a private home where the state put this old lady to pay a monthly fee of 3,000 kuna. Now, we're warning. Such things, you see that have already begun to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81659	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81660	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with co-worker, co-worker and fellow MPs. So, a month of 17.5, a rash broke out in the village of Rajev and Racinovci. A month has passed since the great cataclysm or as the Government of the Republic of Croatia declared disasters in Vukovar-Srijem County in 20.5. Since then, many things have been done in those months, although perhaps the unhappy locals of the municipality of Gunja, the municipality of Drenovci may not have looked that way. I therefore ask them from this place for patience and ask them for understanding because the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the most relevant body is doing its job responsibly. On the other hand, the human actions of each of us distinguish us from the others, so I will take advantage of the opportunity to express my condolences from this place to families who have lost their loved ones in recent floods in the municipality of Drenovci and the municipality of Gunja. I think it's both human and moral, but it's also a political obligation. So, when we talk about agricultural production, there were a lot of debates, but here's a miracle there's no one else in the assembly who referred to agricultural production, so I'm obliged to say that the producers from Gunja were on an official visit to the President of the Republic of Dr. Ivo Josipovic, where he was introduced to the problem and that I am personally in daily contact with them and as an agronomist, but also as president of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters because these people need to be talked to, these people need to be heard. Some times listening is better than a nice word that may not be real. Of course, each of us as a state official, a parliamentary representative or a member of the government must be in a disposition to every man on that field because they don't know who to turn to. Indeed, there is a certain cacophony and a certain confusion in the field, but it is resolved. The biggest problem is, I have to remind you from this place was when a certain number of old households wouldn't leave their houses, their hearths, and he said he'd stay there. Then came the problem for the Ministry of Interior, but also for the Croatian army that had to evacuate these people too late. So, with the scope, intensity, unpredictability and unexpectedness, the health and life of a larger number of people and property are at risk, that we are not talking about the environment, and that we are not talking about, after the floods in Racinovci and Rajev Selo. I have to say that I was luckier than brains, because on the 17.5th, together with the head of the Croatian Forests Administration in Vinkovci, I went to the field and we were on a cliff in the Rachinovci, and when we got off it half an hour later, the rash was broken. So the situation was extremely serious at that moment and for all this time that was happening behind it. So, although the government made a 20.5th decision to declare a disaster for the Vukovar-Srijem County area and then made a series of measures that my predecessors said a lot about, I will refer only to a decision on the measure of assistance of the population affected by the flood in relation to the issue of personal documents. Then the decision to grant the goods and supplies for the supply and care of the population, as well as the decision to write down part of the rent fee for the long-term lease, fees for the fish stocks and concession fees for agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Yes, the government made a decision on the release of these leases and recommended that regional and local self-government units make the same decisions. Unfortunately, Vukovar-Srijem County hasn't made that decision yet, I hope so. And despite all these measures, it wasn't enough to normalize the situation on the ground. And for this reason, it is going to the urgent adoption of a special law because in fact all necessary measures and actions have been shown to do so. Why? To establish a normal life and perform economic, educational and all those measures and actions that actually make one life normal. He was in the northeastern part of Croatia, northwestern part of Croatia or somewhere else. The normalisation of life is expected to take place within a year. God forbid it's like that because the situation in the field is extremely difficult. I'm looking here at a fellow mayor from the parish who was on the field as well as I was, he'll probably confirm these words, the one who wasn't on the ground I don't think has the moral right to discuss for this speaker or from his constituency benches, critically refer to this law. Aphimatively, yes, but critically not. Gentlemen, you should have worn your boots, gone to the mud and seen how these people live. Why emergency procedure? Because immediately after the adoption of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a Programme for the Reconstruction and Resolution of the Consequences in each part of the Republic of Croatia which is damaged by the proposal as previously stated by the Central Authority of the State Administration of the Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government Unit. Now a few words about special measures or provisions within the law because I have not heard that the predecessors referred to that part. So, protection of human health, this measure also allows for a colleague, Lesar, to give more authority to the government, the Minister of Health for Faster Action. Why? Because of possible and possible epidemics that may occur due to high and high external temperatures. I personally participated in the donation of the World Health Organization and UNICEF of rehydration whales for children and adults and expressed hope that they would never have to be used. Because if used, there will be a state of epidemic which will not be good for anyone in Vukovar-Srijem County because it will sharpen biosecurity, was a security criterion and of course it does not lead to the normalisation of everyday life, but rather makes it worse. The renovation of buildings is also defined by this law for buildings of public use and for commercial buildings and for residential buildings, noting that the reconstruction will also follow for illegal objects damaged or destroyed in the flood, for which the application is submitted within the time limit. I believe that this is a clear definition and that this is a clear measure that can help people on the ground. A provision concerning the measures of temporary accommodation of victims during renovations in residential buildings through the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth according to the available capacities, as stated in the draft law, I believe it is very important, I will also say for what reasons. So I personally participated in the talks and negotiations that the hostel owned by Borov as a state-owned company would be filled, i.e. to remove the victims. You know why? In Cerna, specifically in the sports hall where exiles are located, let's call them so, the people affected by the flood, very humanely uncivilized to lie on the floor of older people 70 and over. They should have provided an adequate accommodation with adequate hygiene needs. So, they have their own room and their own bed and also a sanitary knot to use. Of course, it has also caused certain turbulences in the Fairial Alliance, which intended to be the owner of the hostel, but in this case, the list of priorities said that the civilization process must be taken care of by those people. It is very important to stress that the removal of damaged buildings, the rehabilitation of the terrain, the construction of new buildings should be done by domestic domestic companies, mainly from Vukovar-Srijem County, as this will result in the strengthening of the economy in the area. Of course that should be a priority. The restoration of roads, public and unclassified, is envisaged by law to be done by Croatian highways, i.e. Croatian road pardon and to be implemented through operational and technical elements of the procedure in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, which will be adopted and adopted after the adoption of this law. No one in their debate mentioned the deposit of mud and globular waste under the supervision of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection and the State Administration for State Property Management provides sites for the deposit of such mud. It is noted that since 3.06, so much about the ineffectiveness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since 3.06, a waste management system has been established in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County in areas that are flooded and it is operational. The recycling courtyards in Rajjev Sel, Gunja, Drenovci and Vrbanja have been established so far that about 2700 trucks from 36 cubic metres of different waste have been delivered and 50 million kunas have been provided in the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund for the recovery of the terrain from therefore accumulated bulk waste, electronic, electrical and metal waste. Everything that's been flooded. Do not forget that in some houses there was water more than three metres. Thus, all these measures and actions serve to restore to the original state all that can be restored and to ensure a normal life. With regard to agriculture as an essential element of this law, of course more powers are given to the Minister of Agriculture in this part of it, because in the case of occurrences, so what we were talking about, the larger findings of the dead domestic animals that the Minister of Agriculture can act spotlessly. The measures of deratiation, disinfection and disinfection carried out on the ground are carried out, but I keep it on the expert side that it will be ineffective if such measures and actions are uncommunicated and uncoordinated with colleagues from Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the air dusting in the County will not be enough, either in Vinkovci or in the Island if, as the mosquito can electrocute the wind, the rose of the wind will fly 50km. So that action should be coordinated. So what we were meeting in the field talks with people, it's a question of radiating agricultural surfaces, the answer is, my personal from the professional aspect was not to work in favour of their damage because the subological analysis of the soil has not yet been done. So here I primarily don't mean an increase in the amount of microorganisms in the soil that will definitely exist, but the potential for heavy metals because there was a waste dump in Gunja. I hold an extremely important item relating to Croatian defenders that Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War and members of the family of the deceased Croatian Military invalid will be allowed to postpone the payment of housing credit by 31.12.2015, incurred costs towards the business bank in relation to the regulation of certain banking obligations borne by the Ministry of Defence. Also, a very important provision of the law is that associations of Croatian defenders and members of their families are allowed to resuscitate the funds they received up to 50% for recovery, i.e. to solve the living space. Also, provisions concerning science, education, so students in primary schools have free meals or that students have the right to enroll in the autumn period. The SDP Club has also proposed a number of amendments, therefore relating to the restoration of water structures because this law did not provide for this, primarily to provisions relating to the Construction Act, the Nature Protection Act and the Environmental Protection Act. And perhaps at the very end, because I see that time is slowly running out, I should point out, my colleague Shucker and I have been leading the conditional controversy through the bench, that these funds that we've been talking about will not be just the funds of the state budget. So this is also about outside budget users such as Croatian roads, Croatian waters, donations, European funds etc. as well as, of course, certain exemptions from payment of commitments. My colleague Cain had a good initiative on fund formation and the accumulation of funding up to 500 million kuna, which should be considered. And my colleague Schuker, in the end, I must say, my mayor, I see you've been throwing me your vice president, and if someone was painting himself, it was him in Slavonic shoes and in the department, while I was in muddy boots walking the field, so he's your vice president of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81661	Thank you. Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81662	So the president of the party who very skillfully used prohadezian local television and thus built his own career on the expense of these poor people. Yeah, you're right, I wasn't on TV because I didn't want to take pictures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81663	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81664	In the end, the SDP Representatives' Club will, of course, support this law because we believe that it is in the interest of both the Croatian public and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are affected by the floods in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81665	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81666	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Roman, among other things you mentioned here in your debate and this period of one year, so which is the deadline within which the provisions of this law will actually apply. I think we should think more about that deadline, another possibility. In fact, I'm not sure about the size of the job, the huge problems that will be faced by all those who will eventually go out on the ground, etc. that all work will be possible within a year, since, of course, after the summer comes autumn and then winter, one part of the work will certainly not be able to be done during that period. And the spirit of the law actually states that it ceases to apply when all the consequences are resolved. So perhaps we could consider putting the law to life, that the law will be valid until the end of the disaster resolution and the longest, and the longest, two years. Because it seems quite real to me, because of course it is coming, and it's realistic to ask what if it expires a year and the jobs aren't done, then we can extend the law, etc. But I think you should take care of the urgency of the procedure, of the urgency of law enforcement, because all the people you've talked about want just one thing, which is to go back home and continue a normal life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81667	Damir Rimac responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81668	My colleague Kosor, the fact is that in my report, I looked back on the year of the law, but I also said that the law, by its provisions, will allow Croatian wartime people with disabilities and defenders to extend the deadline by 31.12.2015. Of course, therefore, if you listened carefully, I have noted where happiness we will be very pleased if in really a year all this is done, but in some normal frameworks it is always good to set a clear, clear deadline that is 31.12.2014. In case of need, of course, he's going to go for long, of course he's going to go for it. But let's, let's let go, see for ourselves that we can't control the weather until two days ago temperature 35 degrees, we have again, what we need to come up with as one conclusion. That's what I said on several occasions. The climate's changing. We have to revise my ways of thinking and more attention to prevention, and less curative because all we do is curative method. So, we're acting... My colleague Lucic was talking about the rashes. Yeah, but it was supposed to be solved 10 or 15 years ago, not now. It's a curative method again. So, I support your debate in the sense that if the restoration of the terrain and the restoration of objects is not made by a scheduled deadline, that we go on amending and supplementing the law to set, the time period of course extends for some reasonable period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81669	Comrade Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81670	Thank you very much. My fellow Roman, you have said that no one has the moral right to discuss this law that has not put on boots and trampled in flooded areas. I think you're a little out of line. I'm in favor of the law, but now you're asking me, you're taking away my right to talk about the law and giving suggestions that this law will be better. You don't let this statement of yours say the law can be better. For example, not to discuss at all whether the deadline is better for a year or whether the law lasts until 31.12.2015. That's not to be debated. I think it's better by 31.12.2015, but I'm taking other arguments. Is it better that the law does not stand at all how much funds are provided or that there is an estimate? I think it would be better if there was an estimate of the funds, and in this law there is no. But you're asking me to call my conscience and not talk about it at all because I wasn't in my boots, but no matter what I appreciate, anyone who was in boots and helped in any way, for a quality law, it's more important for a good law to include the brain than wearing boots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81671	Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81672	Comrade Maric, I think you have hearing problems. I didn't say you didn't have the right to debate, but I said that everyone who wasn't on the ground shouldn't be critical about the bill, finished reading. On the other hand, in your discussion, you mentioned the abuse of the individual and so did I. Look, fellow Maric, HDZ abused citizens' trust and stole the state, so I don't think you're exactly... to moralize me or the government about what's good and what's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81673	My colleagues, please. We are discussing a serious law and correction, that is, helping people who have suffered, let’s not bring it in this way. Col. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81674	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My fellow Roman, after your debate, I'm thinking precisely about giving up on the replica because I think all of us should be ashamed after such debates with the people who have been killed. If you think, if someone suggests that some things should be fixed that it would be more operational and that we talk about it, that it should not be done, you unfortunately politicized this... with all due respect for being on the ground all the time, that's the logical thing. But when there was a flood in Velika Gorica, I didn't see you, there were some others on that ground. So, I think it's irrelevant and your bidding me, me, me, I'm not good. It's just not good because those people who got hurt don't deserve that kind of debate. We have to show... respect for them. Let's let go of the political bickering, there'll be space and time for political crackdowns and charges, but let's pass a law that will be applicable, let's pass a law that will allow virtually all the baggers and all the others who need to work can already be at the gym on Wednesday afternoon. So that's the meaning of this debate and the meaning of some kind of intervention. You quoted me as Article 46. The Budget Act, however, you have one law that defines how this budget is implemented, which is the Law on the implementation of the State budget and you do not have the possibility of redistributing inside, which was until the end of 2011, in 2012 it was removed from the budget because according to your logic in the Law on Budget Implementation should not be either debt nor anything because it was defined by law. But the Bill of Budgets defines many things, and my interventions went exclusively because we eliminate all those mufflers and others who, on the tragedy of these poor people in Slavonia, want to earn something and nothing else. And it's just not good to politicize things like this. So come on, let's show at least a little spirit that has shown the Croatian people in these... moments, so let's give it up and we politicians rise above it and let's be at least a little bit on the... level, I beg you nicely. With all due respect for being out in the field...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81675	Thank you. Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81676	Comrade Shuker, it is always a pleasure to discuss both formally and informally with you. Of course, this kind of thing doesn't need to be politicized, and there's a political debate on any part of it. So, I don't remember any predecessor expressing empathy with these people, expressing understanding, asking for patience, let alone expressing compassion on the human side as someone did for this speaker. So, I support you in this, let's not politicize, discuss it argued and try to simulate what might happen in the future. So look at the difficult change in climate events in this region, so I appeal both as a politician and as an expert and as a man, in the end, both to my colleagues from HDZ and to our colleagues in the position to build ranks and try to give our knowledge and experience as much quality as possible, a better contribution to the development of any law. So, your remarks, I'm not a financier, you are, your observations that something is possible and that something is not possible, so in the Budget Law, Article 46 is, and the Budget Implementation Act is not. So it's a collation that needs to be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81677	On behalf of Jadranka Kosor and HGS, colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81678	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. A law that truly has a lot of good intentions, an important law that is before us and I think that at the end of the debate there will be no one who will not support it, but I appeal that all the remarks that are truly well-intentioned that the law that is necessary and at this point would not only experience criticism in the public but might not fall in some provisions and perhaps even in the Constitutional Court if someone dares to apply for the assessment of the constitutionality of certain parts of this law. Therefore, it is essential that we discuss here fully openly and support all those who have so far participated in the recovery of damages or in helping people. The most important thing was to help people, the most important thing was to give them refuge and hope, and certainly, that there was an unprecedented horror, that the people most of whom suffered terribly in the Homeland War, were now completely destroyed by the flood or disaster, many of whom were completely killed, lost absolutely everything. The other day I saw a gentleman on one of our TVs who said something that touched me specifically, which is that he lost his family too that they lost memories. So all they had were all the memories of births, birthdays, weddings, the whole history of the family and all the memories were absolute and total destruction, carried away by cloudy and dirty water. And that's why I think it's okay when we remind you that this debate has to be primarily dignified, probably a lot of these people are watching. It's logical that they don't trust anyone, and it's often heard these days, so they don't trust the government, they don't trust the state, they don't trust us, they don't trust anyone at all, they don't believe that it's possible to rebuild, they don't believe that they're coming back, and that's something that's normal in all situations where people are under enormous stress. And that's why I understand my colleagues in the government, and I think I'm qualified for this debate because I've often been Vice President and Prime Minister and Prime Minister and I've put on my boots and gone on water-threatening areas from Međimurje, Velika Gorica here to Slavonia and I know and often personally experienced insults and contempt, which is logical and what's normal. People who lost everything don't trust anyone. And so we have to show in this debate that we want to help, it must be constructive absolutely without any politics and the law should be implemented quickly, effectively, the law must have consequences, and the main consequence must be to return home. It's the only thing people care about. I think the government responded well to what she organised and held a session in County, which was organized by headquarters. I think it's a good idea for ministers to go around the area, at least in a word of comfort, to guarantee that everything that the state has to provide will indeed be provided. And the government, of course, is in an unfavourable situation, whatever she does will come along and it's always been so and it's still today, she'll come across criticism. However, since the government has made a decision, which I think is very good, to a special law that needs to be dealt with by vulnerable citizens, then we must do everything to make it a law that will stand on firm and stable legs and answer the question that many colleagues have asked today. What's the law? The law addresses citizens and citizens, the law is done and built for specific living people. Of course, the question is also justified in this debate, so it's about living people who have suffered badly in Vukovar-Srijem County. What about the others? And that is a legitimate and legitimate question that will certainly be asked as representatives by all those who have lost property in floods both in Brod-Posavia and in other counties. But I support this to be, so we have to open it, we have to deal with it on other occasions and through other laws. But I support this to be the law for those who are at this moment in the most unbreakable situation. It would be a good thing, too, to remind myself that in the law, the funds that will be at least be in some framework form that will be needed to implement the law, so not only for the damage to be resolved but for the law that has really been implemented before us. Because the implementation of this law will actually go through at least two budgets, so this current 2014 and the 2015 budget. About the deadlines, I mentioned it earlier in a replica, so the law will live for a year, but in some provisions of the law it has already been mentioned about the support I absolutely welcome, the Croatian defenders were set a deadline by the end of December 2015, so in this sense we have a certain imbalance. Often referred to in Article 4, I will repeat once again, that the problem of this article remains, of course, in the fact that the Budget Law provides for this redistribution up to 5%, it is said here that more is possible. I continue to argue that I would like to hear the opinion of the Committee on Legislatives, or the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives. I believe it has passed and I suggest Mr. Deputy Prime Minister to inform us of the position of the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which must give an opinion on any law that the Government accepts. It's an extremely well-intentioned, well-intentioned remark, it's a kind of precedent. I repeat, and it would not be good for a law that builds on so many good intentions and so many good wishes and so many good suggestions that it has implementation problems because it is incompatible with other laws and ultimately with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The constitution here in Article 91 says: "The Croatian Parliament brings the state budget to the majority of the votes of all MPs. And in a law whose application requires financial resources must be provided for by their elections.". This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says. Because of course they are opening up and I won't repeat it, I will try not to repeat what the predecessors have already raised open issues related to public procurement, the release from VAT. So a few laws that actually refer to this law and which it logically leans on. Now what I would particularly point out because I don't think that this has been the case so far is the feedback of some articles of these laws, meaning 40, 46, 50, 51, 52 and 53 related to Article 90. A constitution that says: "For particularly justified reasons only certain provisions of the law can have a return effect.". Therefore, it is in accordance with the Constitution because it is really special reasons or conditions. However, from the article to the article, the different formulas in which the period is valid, or for which a provision or feedback is applicable. For example, in Article 40 to the end of the implementation of the measures, it refers to non-going interest. Then, in Article 41, no compensation for water will be charged after the completion of the recovery. Then again 52nd, no interest, etc. So, I'm comparing the article to the Croatian defenders. Just a moment to look for that article, to say exactly what article it's about. The page 20, therefore, concerns Article 60, so "Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons is delayed until 31 December 2015 to pay off housing loans and principals and interest.". So there's a clear and precise definition of the deadline. I suggest that, by the end of the debate, we find out by a truly common force what we should do here and in what way to make these misunderstandings that we are talking about documents because this must be a crystal clear law that will be clearly and precisely without delay. If we pass a law that isn't enforceable in all parts, then unfortunately we won't do anything again. Of course it should and logically, in this debate and we point out that we need to find out as soon as possible before the reasons for the shooting of the dikes, it is something that is necessary to go along with this debate in order to prevent you from imagining everything that will be done and all of this that will be restored by the enormous resources of the state budget, so the taxpayers once again do not suffer the same way. That would be absolutely more than a disaster. And I agree equally with the views we have already heard about Article 38 he is, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues inconclusive because he is talking about the release of value added tax for grants to be provided in the state budget or through donations and other sources. So, with all these remarks that I've been trying to fly, I don't want to repeat too much what's been said so far, I think we should certainly step up the provisions of the surveillance law. So surveillance is articulated in fact only one item, it is essential that we strengthen that surveillance. And of course, a law that will quickly enter into force will follow all the programs and follow up to a second within the deadlines provided for in the law. It also means proposals in the Government, as well as implementation or implementation of the implementation on the ground. Mr. Vice-President of the Government is here with a desire to continue at the same pace and to truly accept all these remarks that I think more than well-intentioned so far in this debate I want everyone who has suffered in this disaster not to leave them with hope, to believe in the provisions of the laws that we will make but to return as soon as possible and to keep their health away from their homes. And to all who have lost and have been such, unfortunately, and loved ones in this disaster, I express my deepest condolences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81679	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81680	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Kosor, I express my real agreement with everything you've said but some sentences and some thoughts I'm going to replicate. In fact, we received a promise from the Prime Minister when he visited almost at the beginning of this disaster a flooded area that we would also find out the reasons for the shooting of a new dikes in Rajjev Sel still have no reports or reports of Croatian waters which, or inspections that would be whether it would be only Croatian waters from their budget do or will part out of it, we do not know that. But what you really emotionally said was that people lost memories and that statement we made on television also offered me to say that I was watching at the beginning of that disaster a child who was stationed in Cerna at the school gym who said I could hardly wait to return to my home and hug my Bear. So we really have no reason to have a heated debate today, mostly party-stricken, but precisely the basis of those two statements that you have said and which I have now made. This law for which the HDSSB club will be, with those observations, also needs to be amended in general with regard to such disasters as may happen and beyond, that we are not talking about earthquakes etc. which can lead to major disasters. So to support such a legislative proposal and to include it later in the legislation that will solve other natural disasters, or disasters that God does not give to happen in Croatia. The supervision of these funds that will be achieved by this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81681	Thanks, buddy. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81682	Indeed, strict implementation should be carried out, as is the European Union's supervision of projects financed in Croatia. So the exact same degree of surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81683	Thank you. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81684	I agree with you, colleague Grubisic. I think I also realized that the main message that you're trying to say, which I was directly or indirectly talking about, is that from this disaster, from this horror that happened, which I think many of them are not even aware of, that we have to learn some lessons. If that happens, it will be good, so we would have to pass some regulation so united that it could immediately begin to function in the moments of cataclysm that we are discussing today. And I agree, and that's my point of view, as soon as I can find out the causes of the crash shooting. As we have been informed about this one commission, I find it very professional. It's important not only to know who's guilty, if someone's guilty individually and who's going to answer if someone has to answer, but because something like that doesn't happen again. We can restore the rash and build a new one and imagine that something similar happens again. So now this restoration that's about to start and it's all gonna go away, it's got to be forever. So we need to make sure it's forever. And as for the hall, you mentioned one in the Cerna it seems to me, probably all these scenes from the hall, people who are absolutely without anything, I repeat often and without any bag, which failed to save even the documents, reminded you of war times, of the most terrible times of war in '91, '92. the years when, unfortunately, the exiles who had to flee from their hearths were taken care of both in halls and in hotels. So Croatia has shown that it can react, not only with the heart but also with the organization, but now it is looking for something more, and that is what we decide in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81685	A colleague, Josip Salapic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81686	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, our discussions today are more or less in the same direction, which is that this law begins to act as soon as possible on the disaster of affected areas, and that the Croatian Parliament is ahead of us, it is our duty to put the content in legal form, which is to bring it into line with the Constitution and any well-intentioned criticism in this bill today should be understood just as well-meaningly, that finally, given that it is a higher force, a disaster that has set people neither guilty nor due, there are even more critical points in Croatia. Unfortunately, and I agree with you that we should do everything possible to assess the future which are the crisis points and key in Croatia so that it does not happen again because the accident is an accident. Unfortunately, it is an accident of the Croatian people and there is no doubt that it should act as soon as possible. I advocate that our debates be such that every one who has made his contribution to help doesn't matter if someone went out there from the heart and was there directly and the one who called on the phone, perhaps from Dubrovnik, gave what swear as many people as they could and all the unity of the people at a difficult time. This should be respected, those who don't even know where Gunja is, where Rajo Selo is, who have a heart for that people, that's what people helped, and that's all to be respected. And we need to find the money, and we don't have the money. I'm betting we're going to rebalance the budget, if we need a deficit of 500 million kuna, but to help the injured Croatian people directly. These are images we can't, unfortunately, understand. It is best understood by those who have been affected, as well as wounds since the Homeland War, as well as wounds from family tragedies. Only one who finds it difficult can understand that, and we are tasked with putting this form into content and helping as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81687	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81688	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Salapic, I don't even think that all of these remarks that are being made so that they can be classified in the category of criticism but they are indeed remarks well-intentioned and from the experience of each of us who have so far spoken has some experience either in passing laws or in law enforcement. I think it's an experience, and this law should actually be viewed as a rash, so it has to be so firm that it can't get through or through. So the law should not break anything in its implementation and in its realization because it is logical that this debate is followed by the people to whom the law applies, and that I am sure, unfortunately, as I have listened together with you all these days of statements by many people who have been seriously injured, indeed, left out of nothing, who do not believe us. So they don't believe it's possible and that the state will really do it all. It is therefore important that it be a law that will allow a country that has good intentions, the government has a good intention of really doing it to the end, to the last letter and to realize it, which will mean to the last brick, to the last house, to the last road, to the last hole, and of course to the far end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81689	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81690	Dear Croatian Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with associates, distinguished MPs and MPs. Before the very transition to the presentation of the Rehabilitation Act, the consequences of the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, I would like to present some statistics on the county of Posavina. The areas of Posavina County, in particular the villages and municipalities of eastern Posavina County, have already been threatened in an elementary accident with a lower birth rate, economic crisis, high unemployment, the emigration of young people and other problems that are present throughout Croatia. So according to the 2001 census, Gunja had 5033 residents, 2011. 3752 inhabitants. Drenevci 3049 2001, 2011. 1946 residents. Posavski Podgaci in 2001 1568 inhabitants, 2011. 1255. In 2001, workers had 982 inhabitants, 2011. 700 inhabitants. In 2001, Rajo Selo had 1407 inhabitants to have 987 inhabitants in 2011. Not to mention the rest of the places that are partially flooded. It is evident that between 2001 and 2011, 20% of the population in the area was reduced by exceptional floods. Now these trends, these decreases in the eastern part of the Posavina county will continue further. 50% of the population is over 40 years old. About 2 and a half thousand households, 3 and a half thousand households are directly threatened by floods. This primarily refers to Gunj, Racinovce, Rajo Selo, part of Posavina Podgajac, part of Đurić and part of Strošinac. The 2684 houses were under the operation of water and some 900 economic-help facilities. There were also 7854 acres of land under the water. Some 100,000 cc's of waste from flooded houses and buildings are expected to be taken care of. So far, about one third has been taken care of. The above data give the weight and need to pass such a law. The law itself, in principle, will support HDZ, because there are good legal proposals and the shortcomings I will try to point out. Although the time of the disaster is somehow behind us and has already been approached by the recovery of the damages that have taken place, I must say that for a few of the proposals set out in the law, the time has passed. The situation in flooded areas is much better every day, although we are far from good. The road infrastructure itself is not so damaged, and as far as road reconstruction is concerned, I think the law provides for good solutions. Also, Article 32 of the temporary housing of victims during the renovation of residential buildings provides for a good solution, but I think that with more up-to-date management of state property it would be better applied. Article 33 is replaced by the The Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection has been acting spotlessly and a really big job has been done in the management of waste and land recovery. There are also these legal solutions that are well applicable in these crisis situations. However, there are several legal solutions for which the legislator did not foresee good solutions. For example, in Article 37 of the entrepreneurship and crafts, the competent ministry may grant grants to small-scale operators in accordance with the programme referred to in Article 2 of this Act. I do not think that it should open up the possibility for the ministry to do something, because there is a possibility of subjective grant of grants and I believe that this article has a good intention but it would be necessary to delete the word "can." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Ministry of Agriculture responsible for the tasks that the law requires it to carry out are largely done - the restoration of the terrain, the rescue of animals, the care of pets, the care of dead animals. However, in Article 41(1) of the foreseeable disinfection of mosquitoes, this part becomes very bad and unskilled, and this way I appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health to make every effort to address this very big problem. In addition to the damage caused by water, this is free to say another elemental disaster that threatens the survival of humans, animals, and gamers in forests. I suggest that disinsectation be put into the law by airhandling mosquitoes, because it is the only successful measure, that is, a way to contain mosquitoes. There were stories here that it was not treated in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia's mosquitoes. In Bosnia, it's safe, I've seen it, and in Serbia I don't know. Article 47 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December I propose that the Ministry of Labour and Pensions provide for the possibility of hiring as many unemployed persons as possible from the district of Posavina, not just from flooded areas, because we are all indirectly affected by floods. The government declared the area of Vukovar-Srijem County a disaster. Part of the county was declared an elemental disaster just before the disaster due to heavy rain. The biggest consequences of the disaster were flooded areas, then partially flooded areas and finally other areas. The areas directly based on the Sava River were able to defend themselves with the help of some institutions and thank them, and most of all with their own strength, they quickly organized themselves using everything to defend and preserve lives and property. Without taking the above and waiting today, the area would be flooded, the property destroyed, and the population displaced. At the same time, because of the defence itself, we suffered damage on public and private surfaces, the facilities needed to defend against the flood. We believe that this damage should be tackled with the measure of enabling public works with the financing of the Croatian Employment Service in full, not co-financing 50% as in all Croatia, which is not affected by disaster. We consider this measure to be necessary for these units of local self-government. I suggest that it be included in the law. The recruitment of most people would have been pre-recovered, and people would have been able to return to their homes sooner. In principle, the law has such shortcomings in rebuilding residential buildings and can be interpreted as allowing for non-renewable, i.e.... damages, i.e. non-payment of cash compensation instead of repairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why certain categories of citizens who are affected by a disaster are placed in an unequal situation, i.e. they themselves will have to suffer the consequences of floods and disasters in repairing or building their residential buildings. Since these citizens have not by their actions or by their actions caused floods and the disaster must not be caused by constitutional, legal and moral principles of society, nor must they suffer the consequences of restoring or building housing at their own expense. In the proposal for a law, the definition of a residential building is explained in Article 12(4) of the Law proposal. The apartment building includes a building in which at the time of the disaster referred to in the Article of this Act, its owner or relative of the owner or the owner or relative of the owner had a registered residence and residence. The concept of residential buildings also understand the auxiliary and economic buildings that function in the residential building. This concept is extremely important because it determines the overall scope of the reconstruction measures of residential buildings that have been damaged or destroyed by the flood. If that definition of the bill is accepted, it should be explained to all citizens from the flooded areas that that bill does not include, or that it will not be corrected under the proposal of the law, it will not pay for the funds instead of repairs or will not restore buildings that are not safe to stay and, instead, build new buildings at the same time, in the following cases: Under 1st apartment buildings where no one lives or where the owner has no registered residence and residence. This is mostly about inherited property that is occasionally visited and maintained. For this property, all obligations are paid as are paid by other locals who live in these places and have registered residence and residence. Under the 2nd residential building in which tenants live and the owners of that building have no residence and residence reported. These buildings are also subject to obligations. In this way, these property owners are placed in an unequal position compared to other property owners, and thus directly injured constitutional provisions on the equality of citizens. The fact of life in a particular building or the fact of a registered residence or residence cannot be stronger than the right to choose places of life and work and guarantees on property. And under 3. we have one case equally illegally built building for public purposes, economic buildings and housing buildings for which no application has been filed within the time-limit of a special prescribed law and will not be renewed under this law. Some citizens, and they are not few in this area, because of the inability of any employment and general indifference, did not have money or applied for the law of the residential building they live in. Under the general rules on compensation for damages, there is no difference whether the building is legal or illegal and that no application for its legislation has been submitted within the time limit of the prescribed specific law. General rules on compensation must be the basis of both this law and a clear message that Croatia is trying to be a legal state. This bill did not send this message. Furthermore, Article 18 of the Law proposes that the renovation of buildings be carried out with the consent of their owners, i.e. owners if the owner is not available or cannot be established. In addition to removing buildings, construction of new buildings allowed only with the consent of the owner. That bill allows consent to be given to a legal or even illegal owner which cannot be allowed or cannot be allowed to decide the owner instead of the owner, which is also constitutionally unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that the owner may decide to pay the money instead of repairs without knowing or not to agree to it. I would also suggest that a proposal be included in the law to continue the cost of taking the preparation and rescue and resolution activities of the damages caused by floods be replaced or funds are provided for to address financial problems or commitments incurred because municipalities, cities, counties do not have those resources. Also, given the limited validity and application of the law, I would suggest that an article be inserted where, after the completion of the works and the resolution of the damage or the termination of the application of the law, the report on the done would come to the Croatian Parliament. I would also convey a message to the people on the ground that we simply do not forget them, and I would suggest that we do everything in our power so that people in the flood area who have been affected and displaced can return to their homes as soon as possible and continue their regular activities, and in some ways I would suggest that some instructions be made to provide them with information in order to reach their rights, the possibility of using funds. Because these people are displaced, they might come to their facilities once a day, and they just don't have time to read the laws, and we're still here to help them and just don't forget them. And I think these suggestions should at least be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81691	Thank you. Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81692	Comrade Milicevic, you have touched mosquitoes again. So, just a little clarification. So I'm aware that in Bosnia it's treated but not at the same time as in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is extremely important that treatment is made for optimal results in both Serbia and Bosnia and Croatia at the same time-out. Regarding your referencing to public works, I must say that a total of over 1,000 unemployed people will be employed through public works in Vukovar-Srijem County. Another problem arises on the ground whether these people have good intentions to work or just use the welfare of the state and immediately go to sick leave because such cases also occur. And regarding your quote here, we must do everything in our power to give people who have given specific instructions on the use of certain funds, etc., we must make it clear and loud that the damage will not be so much that the EU Solidarity Fund funds can be used. So it will be significantly smaller than 255m euros, which is good in this case. But I would take advantage of the possibility and stress that it can be done, i.e. the possibility of applying under the regional disaster criteria, and we can use this option if the damage is greater than 0.5% of the regional GDP, so the damage will be more likely than half of the GDP of Vukovar-Srijem County, but we can also use the possibility of applying according to the neighbouring country's criteria primarily in cooperation with the Republic of Serbia, and as far as I know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on that part. It is also very important for the objective information of the public to say that there are also funds from the Structural Funds where financial supplies are much larger than in the Solidarity Fund, but that it is possible to use the European Investment Bank's credit line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81693	Thank you. Davor Milicevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81694	Well, Your Honor, as you said we were from the field, and I come from the field, really mosquitoes are one big monster and we just don't have the opportunity to solve that problem ourselves. There were attempts that simply didn't end well. This is a purely my appeal, a request, a proposal to try to find the means to get rid of mosquitoes, not only in the County, and in some ways in areas that have not experienced a flood, and in them it is even more pronounced, and it slows them back to their homes. As far as public works are concerned, also a good measure that we all expected in this area where chronic unemployment is in Croatia, we know that, but realistically we expected to get public works, and we were really ready to go to flooded areas and help these people move into their homes as soon as possible. With this number now present, I think it's going to be very difficult. The proposal went towards it, and let it be done, the public works are on, that's a certain number of people first income after the flood, and that's a good thing. The proposal went only to get us involved in helping in some way, and we're dealing with two good things, and indirectly, areas that aren't flooded have some damage, so we wanted to get rid of it through public works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81695	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81696	Thank you very much. Kolega Miličević, Drenovci and Gunj according to the list of municipalities, according to the index of underdevelopment or development however you like, fall within the 15 municipalities they have, so the first 15 municipalities or the lowest at the rate of development in the Republic of Croatia, the development index in the Republic of Croatia. So the Drenevs and Gunja are among 15, Kistaning is number one, so we know. And we saw that list. So, these two municipalities, and the Vukovar-Srijem County, according to its fiscal capacity, GDP and everything else, do not have enough resources or opportunities to face even the monster of the mosquitoes or mosquitoes. So also the Brod-Posavina County, and Slavonski Brod City, and the municipalities in Brod-Posavina County have there, let me say that mosquito monster of which you can neither work nor live. We saw both the footage and everything else from the neighborhood, from Drenovac, from Gunja and talked about that, you say that 1,000 unemployed will be employed in the work of rebuilding, rescheduling the terrain, etc. I also remember a statement from the minister who also came to Drenovce and Gunj, and I will not speak the name of the minister that I do not raise the carca here, that he will be employed between 4 and 5 thousand people. Because really, more people will do more and it'll be faster to rebuild, and faster people will come home and that's why I'm also advocating you. So, as for these 5% of GDP percentages of Vukovar-Srijem County or 0.88% of the state GDP, I don't think I know what way the European Union has given Serbia a billion euros in aid, on which basis, which is the regulation and what fund it was, the solidarity fund or I don't know what and that Croatia can't count on a single euro of that aid. although he is a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81697	Thank you very much. Replication response. Davor Milicevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81698	Well, you've detected everything well, and you've said it all well. It's not just a mosquito problem expressed in Vukovar-Srijem County, he's leaning, but we can say along with the entire Sava and I think we should ask the government for help, because if the state doesn't help, because the fiscal capacities of the municipalities, cities of Slavonia, to say the whole are not able to solve this problem, which is really big. I can talk about it, but it needs to be experienced. Also, you said well that Gunja, the Drenovs were probably among the first 15 ugly to say, they took up the table their place. And I'm just going to say one example, and that's why I asked as many people as possible to get involved in public works. The largest number of social assistance users are in the municipality, next to Gunja there belongs to the municipality of Rajo Selo, Racinovci. So there's most social aid users and often people think about why I would go to public work if I had social assistance. They went out of their seats, if they'd come back that's the question now. For this reason, on the promise of ministers who promised a large number of jobs in public works, and this means a lot to us, for these reasons, I have made a proposal to try to find the opportunity to include as many and now as possible this number of people and even more people in public works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81699	On behalf of the Club, representative of HDSSB colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81700	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, this is one law we unfortunately have to talk about today in the Croatian Parliament. No one could prevent the influence of nature, more force, but God's will is what can happen to any of us today, what can happen tomorrow, and what will be in the future. This is a human tragedy which, as such, should be understood and, above all, personally in front of my club and party, I express my condolences to those who have lost their loved ones in this great tragedy and I also give full support to people to return to their homes as soon as possible, to their homes. Because unfortunately, as much as there is a great heart and good will, we will never be able to bring back the condition exactly as it was, human memories, to families and lives, and to some corners of their houses that have been lost in this terrible flood, unfortunately we will not be able to bring back, but we can bring back what is great unity and the Croatian heart that should be at all times with all the people in Croatia who unfortunately experience this. Mayor Županje, as well as Mr. Romec, who you directly there and fellow MPs in the Parliament have been, have given your best of work, give my sincere thanks and thank you, as well as for expecting people who live there, but who act as high-ranking state officials to contribute to helping their people and their citizens, families and all those who have died in this great disaster. What's most important, and that's to make sure that life starts to flow... now the moment can say normal. We suspect that it will be enough for a year, God forbid it is, but it is already time to foresee the possibility that it will last for more than a year and it should be the law to put into shape that unfortunately the renewal will not be done so quickly given all the problems you've been talking about, Mayor, and given the situation and the state to be recorded. We advocate that the damage assessment is carried out as soon as possible and that the law should be approximately, we have enough experts, enough opportunities to carry out an assessment in view of the area in question. What we advocate at the HDSSB Club to bring these constructive discussions, the good intentions that are expressed about this law that has noble intent, which is to bring it into line with other laws as soon as possible, with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that if we need to go into rebalancing when it comes to this law and this problem that we can start tomorrow in accordance with the law to help people. What they expect from us, we can't go on here today, and the important thing is that people don't forget and that the sooner Parliament and government take what's promised. That will be enough for now, it is important to assess what is happening to people today given the conditions in which they live, and they are displaced from their areas. It's important, Mr. Minister, that the state of security, the state of property of people who find it difficult to reach their homes, be at the highest level of security. We have enough and resources and... in the police, we also have in the Croatian Army, must not be allowed to, given the regime of entry into Gunje and other flooded areas, anyone dealing with criminal activities to the detriment of those already hit by this huge disaster. We today, respected colleagues and colleagues, and all those who follow the Croatian Parliament, do not need to talk as politicians about who was there or was not, is to expect the Prime Minister, that ministers, that representatives of the Parliament, that people who are local officials, mayors, mayors are on the front line to help their people, and from all of us, from the officials of the Republic who each in their territory can and should contribute, it is our duty and our duty to comply with the powers of the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible to take steps to help people. And I'm going to repeat what's most important in this, not to forget, today is the condition it is, tomorrow it's going to be different, but it's always going to be hard in that area. We advocate to carry out an assessment of the state, surveillance and security, as there has been at all the shooting of this distillery and that in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia and the endangered areas which can be assessed by the maximum assessment devices and show that this never happens again. Also, since houses will be built that will be different from those that have been so far because it's obvious, I'll repeat what I said at the beginning, we won't be able to put the situation back exactly the way it was, unfortunately. We need to do everything we can to ensure that an assessment of the state of security in the construction of new houses does not pose a question that God does not let such a disaster happen again. And about today's debates and the politicisation of certain problems, I think... the time in Croatia, given that what happened in Gunja, the Paradise village and other areas and counties, could not be estimated. To show reason and unity once, to realize that each one of our duties should behave honestly and that the people who went there were meant to go from the heart to the duties they do. It is also important to appreciate anyone who has given at least one kuna in his poverty in life to help flooded areas. That's something to be appreciated. And the Croatian Parliament gave as much as it could and we MPs separated from our salaries as we could, if necessary, we will do more because unfortunately whatever you do is not enough because the depth of the wounds and disasters that hit our people is great and no one today can understand exactly what happens in Gunja when night falls, which will be these days that are ahead of us. What we can do, colleagues and colleagues, is pass a law that will comply with all the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia and that will allow for the restoration of affected areas tomorrow and what is most important, and we remember Vukovar and the late President Tudjman when the disaster of Vukovar was after the war of reconstruction, when on the train of peace and freedom in Vukovar, she asked all the counties to restore each of them to some important, vital, infrastructure facility in Vukovar, I don't know if everything, every county of its commitment, which the late president made, but I say, let's never forget the Croatian people, let's do our best and remember history, in history we learn, and in the future to prevent. We are the surface of a small country, we have enough capacity, I hope that we will get out of the crisis, that we will enable the prevention of such accidents and that the Croatian people will realize that we are not only together today but that we should always be. And I say once again, I'm sorry, we offer our condolences to all those who have been killed, and we call on the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament, to put this content of the law in shape as soon as possible to help people and to give them our hand, not in this year how long this law will last, but as long as it takes for them to live as long as they can get back to normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81701	Thanks, buddy. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81702	Thank you very much. Dear Salapic, yes, this law, exactly, has good, as you have said, and noble intentions and therefore we don't need much either, maybe, come on, I can't say no to anyone, but clearly that already from these discussions it's proportionate that we are all here, regardless of the clubs of the opposition or the club of opposition, we are all for this law in order to help the citizens of Cvelferia, the citizens of Gunja, Račinovac, Rajev village, Rats, Đurić, Drenovac, Vrbanje, Strošinac as soon as possible. But what I still have to point out is that here, you mentioned two names here that were going around, there were more, I'm not going to say which ones here, but for example. When he was here, the Prime Minister was coming to the Rats or to the County that crisis headquarters. We didn't see that there was no unity but one assembly that Mr. Mayor showed up with him. So that unity should have been proven sooner, but let's fix the mistakes, adopt the law, and get these people who died in this cataclysm or disaster back to their homes and rebuild and actually their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81703	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81704	Thank you, Vice President. I mentioned Mayor Miličević and fellow Roman because we discussed in this context, people were on the ground directly, there were others, but what is more important to me is not this form of formal eating the prime minister at some point immediately came to me, as it is said, the content is important to me. Will this law tomorrow when we declare it immediately apply and whether people who have been killed in a major disaster will return to their homes as soon as possible. If there is enough resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia to immediately place them there, do we have to rebalance the state budget, do we have to go into deficits and bring people back to life? Is collective depression already present before this great disaster, but it's hard for us already, but people are unemployed, there's no investment, there's no money people have to live hard, and it's unfortunately what happened. And whatever it is you're saying, wherever you're going, it might be better if the fewer politicians went there, the better if someone helped out as much as they could, 100, 200, 500 from here or from their houses because given what was before the disaster, people had a hard time living. It's worse now, now they're waiting to get home as soon as possible, and when they get home, they see it's all destroyed. There should be easy help if you need to separate how many years it takes, so each of us who works in Croatia will feel sorry for those people who need to start breathing with their lungs and live for their children and their families, we will give as much as we need, if there is no state budget we will continue to collect as much as we need. That's what I most important word or sentence doesn't fall into oblivion. In Vukovar today, it's hard not to have jobs, and in a few moments he fell into oblivion except 18.11. when everyone went there and then there was a politicization of the case. There are other places in Croatia that have died when they always return to our politics who is in power, whose head is who is mayor. You mentioned the mayor so to me it's embarrassing, everyone should be together regardless of whether it's SDP or HDZ or HDSSB all you need to be together and people don't care what party it is but who's honest, and who's unfair is the most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81705	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81706	Thank you very much. My friend Salapiæ, you look a little idealistically at this fellowship. If we're together about making this law we should have it then we should have it today in the Parliament, I think they are today. It is one of the specific laws, should be all MPs here in the Croatian Parliament 151's representative was supposed to today, not all have to speak but it is also real support. You've been talking about the money that we're going to give as advocates, but actually these money is meaningless but it's important message, they're insignificant in terms of needs. And you mentioned other laws or the harmonisation of this law to other laws, of course, but it was meant to be at the same time. So I think that we should have gotten on the bench of this draft law in the emergency procedure but the amendment and addition of a few more laws that we warn of from the Budget Law, the implementation of the budget and the water economy, etc., so that's something that should have been parallelized and then we could be sure that a really big renewal is going. And as far as Vukovar is concerned, you mentioned President Tudjman's speech in Vukovar after the Peace Train arrived, unfortunately not all those who have committed themselves, and then in that sacred place fulfilled their obligation as it is. And that's why it's good to warn through this law, when the train door closed and when they went back, many of them forgot, and that's the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81707	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81708	I agree with you, dear representative Kosor. So more than ever in Croatia, we need togetherness. This idealism that I may have talked optimisticly about, I'm just saying it because of those who believe something has to change because given the environment and what's going on. This is unfortunately a human tragedy, but the fate of those people before the tragedy was already difficult. There are many other parts of Croatia that are in grave danger. Em don't have people jobs, em hard to live on and every move and step that comes from politics if it's gonna come to light today that's how it started some started back in Yugoslavia, some were talking about themselves, some were talking about me, me, and just me, someone gave less, someone gave more. It doesn't matter how much someone gave it, I think every kuna is important so that drop when someone has nothing to give it. We were on those phones together, so we heard where people were calling and what they were saying. So quite from the opposite corners of Croatia where they have no idea, they do not know where Gunja is, where Rajo Selo is what is happening and cannot assess the level of this tragedy. I heard the story there that there was just a crisis in the village when people were running away from the crisis, with priests and children from the tables leaving their houses that were flooded for a few moments, which is a tragedy. And if in politics, we had no high-level state policy at this point in time, then that's community. We didn't even have it in Vukovar last year, we don't have it today on key issues, and even here, we won't have it tomorrow when we bring budget rebalances because someone always thinks it's more important. If people are talking to me here, and not us, if we don't have what we're talking about today, just present in football, it would be good to have it everywhere, we'd be much better. Of these lamentations of stupidity, of people who only love themselves, look only at their chance for a future term that is already enough for everyone and everyone to suffer. It's who does what, who's professional, capable, well-intentioned. When we can bring humanity back to politics, when we put emotion into what we do, it'll be much more honest. Whatever you say makes you look stupid because everyone listens to you and behind your back tells you to make a fool of yourself, to apologize, and that's not fair. I stand for idealism and honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81709	On behalf of the SDSS representative club, counterpart Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81710	Good afternoon, dear vice president, dear deputy minister, colleague and colleague. Let me express my deepest sympathy with the victims in this disaster that struck the people of Vukovar-Srijem County and thank all those who helped in the first row the citizens of the Republic of Croatia whether they wore boots or not. I know that many have given what they have, and what they have perhaps too little but in their desire to help others. I also want to thank the representatives of my community, the Serbs, because they did not watch whether some people died, that they did not suffer because different nationalities were only because this natural disaster affected all people. The SDSS Club will support this bill even though here, as we know, 17.5th, this natural disaster occurred, when I say natural means that nature has made great disasters. And here's 30 days after that, nature has removed the greatest threat i.e. Water. Water that has returned to its troughs and has largely disappeared from the surface. What we'd like at the SDSS club is two things. The first thing as well as the club that used to tell us that they support this law is that when we passed this law, we were all supposed to be a position. So that at this point we do not need opposition, that we should all participate in this text of the bill, perhaps in a way that gave the clubs an opinion before the debate and by committees, and that they would make their proposals so that this law would be complete or maybe some things would not be left out and it would be one of the perfect examples of joint parliamentism, representatives of Croatian citizens in the highest House, in the Croatian Parliament. The other thing that we also regret is that this law should have been as our Constitution says so they should all be covered. Unfortunately, I'm afraid, and I hope they won't be like that, that they'll all be covered. A lot of the people who spoke to us said it wasn't what they said on TV. We're back and we've got to get out of our own houses, out of our homes, bring out rotten stuff, pieces of furniture and all the other stuff that's left behind. Yes, public roads, other public facilities were cleaned up, but these people were not helped, they needed help because there are a lot of old people who can't take out everything that the water left behind. I also want to tell them to be persistent on this occasion, and unfortunately to remove what they have to remove and leave at the roadside, and then these services will take it all away. This law is worth a year. We think it should be different. We think it should be or until the need to restore everything that has been destroyed or possibly to the 2015 budget. Not to last a year but to predict one way or another, or perhaps a third if someone has a better solution, and we agree with that. When I was talking about the same possibilities, this flood affected everything as we know it, but unfortunately here we have to find that in one part where the measures for the restoration of buildings relating to the restoration of existing residential buildings and ultimately not to quote further apply to all illegally built buildings for whose legal requirements are filed within the time limit of the special law. But we ask ourselves, and what about other objects, what about other objects for which citizens may not have submitted their demands, but they have also been affected and flooded, and they are people and they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia? And they need help, maybe there's not many of them, maybe there's no one but they should be left to us and that possibility. Unfortunately, I'd say, I'd like to, because today it's been said that there was supposed to be someone from the Ministry of Finance, I'd like to have Chief Gunja with us today. I know it may be too much, but I wish he was here today, too. This is where Vukovar is mentioned today. From the practice we had in Vukovar, we know what it was and what it was like to rebuild in Vukovar. Unfortunately, many are dissatisfied. Sadly, many restorations have not allowed them to return to Vukovar today. This is about building type houses, so where the commissions find that houses have to be built new, or residential buildings, but what we're going to do is, are people going to accept if they had 200 square meters of houses, so now they're going to get, like, a 120 square type house. Will they accept that someone or the Supervisory Board accepts a reconstruction that is not well - designed, or that is, not built properly. It might not be a bad idea to think directly, as it says here in one section, that money will be paid off. Why didn't they consider paying everyone's money, so it would probably be people themselves, like those houses that they did, the way they think it's best for them, the way they think it's done in that finished phase of quality, and not, and I'm afraid of it being like in Vukovar, to get what they're not happy with or where they're likely to file a complaint afterwards. I would like for sure that this other situation is as we think, and today many of our colleagues have called here to be robbed and there will be money in a blurry, that someone especially because of these procedures without public procurement, that many will come only to earn money. We're afraid of it, and this is our desire to meet these people, if that's possible. In Article 32, and a colleague spoke of this, for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Croatia referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the national authorities, public institutions, predominantly state-owned companies and agencies shall, upon request, make available the spatial and human capacities and equipment to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Is that so? Unfortunately not. I know that many who may have been obliged to implement these measures won't mention things, but I think we have a duty to mention here because some are true, let's say as the truths spoken in half. When it comes to what we used to call a single hotel in Vukovar and you're right, but I wonder where those people feed. Do you know where these people feed? They eat in the gym, in the lobby of the sports hall. With this decision we humiliated Vukovar, we humiliated the workers of Borovo standard who has a restaurant capacity of 350 to 400 seats with a professional kitchen next to which these victims pass every day because they have to eat in the gym. Well, that's a shame. And why is it that I'm not going to talk here and it's neither the place nor the order, but it shouldn't have happened that way. I won't be long. I'll just say one more thing about the students. It's about a diet. I wonder what's wrong with the textbooks. If we're going to provide the students with that in school, not to be hungry to say so, although I think their parents will take care of that, why don't we provide them with textbooks that are new and certainly one of the most expensive and difficult items in their next school years. These are the attitudes of the SDSS club. As I said and as expected, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81711	Thank you. Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81712	Thank you. Dear Montenegrin, you've opened a few big things here, and we've analyzed this law then we consult experiences and professions and the State Department for Reconstruction and Housing and they've said three things that should be fixed by this law, and that's like you said the limited duration of this law for a year, and that we don't have an estimate of neither the value of the damage done nor the dynamics of the job or the cost. What about those whose houses don't rebuild beyond that deadline, whose things don't come back beyond that deadline? So isn't it more rational to set that deadline differently than tie it up. A strange deadline for a year, a rare law we make with limited duration. The other thing, the guys' houses are gonna be everybody's, we talked about that thing on the board yesterday, the renovated type houses, maybe it's simpler, but is that more correct? It should bring back the houses as they were, and that's what the profession said in the end. It is also important to respect landscape, landscape characteristics, city authenticity, space, etc., which may be one of the higher spheres of all this. However, the profession is exclusive and says we do not need to work type houses, and we have a bad recovery experience. The renovation was generally typical of type houses, people are not satisfied with the quality of buildings and life in typical houses. Just the fact that something is typical, you've already put it socially differently compared to what you came out of. And the third thing, what about illegal objects that aren't in the legalization phase. The owners are often old. They didn't have the money to apply for legalization. They should be included, they're large numbers, but we can't segregate them. So to restore these facilities and automatically give them the status of legal objects. Now's the chance to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81713	Dragan Montenegrin, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81714	Since we have the same attitudes, I'm just going to be my colleagues, actually, I'm going to complete myself and tell me a lot of times around here we're talking about deadlines. However, those living in those parts do not have deadlines. They want to return to their homes as soon as possible to their normal lives. I hope that all these objections will come into the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81715	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81716	Thank you very much. Dear Montenegrin, you spoke about the article, first of all Article 12, as well as Mr. Milicevic, who spoke about the lack of restoration of those houses that were not registered for legalisation as Mr. Horvat said. Then those who may live in Zagreb or elsewhere, who inherited from their fathers, grandfather's house in Drenovci, Podgajci or Rachinovci, Gunja, Rajev, it doesn't matter where, therefore, in this flooded area. Therefore, they will not actually be made by this legislative proposal, Article 12(1), covered by the renewal. Are they flooded? They did. Did they have any damage to those houses, objects that they really own? They did. Now, we're going to get to one in these application of this law to one discriminatory relationship. And I would like to know how many such houses are in this area, such objects that will not be covered by this bill. That's what Mr. and you and Mr. Milicevic were talking about. Maybe he's after... Maybe he knows the number of such objects that are actually going to stay in the form they are in, because he's not going to get this bill that shouldn't happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They should all be covered, whether they have applied for legalisation or not, and for which reasons they have not applied for legalisation. So here I am, we agree in that sense that in this case we should not distinguish between the owners of these objects. So we need to rebuild everything. And as for the type objects and the malfeasances that occurred, I talked about it a hundred times, and I should think about it, and about paying the textbook, I'm sorry about how to pay the money and how to do it, how to control the spending of these cash amounts, and that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81717	Thank you very much. Replication response, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81718	I don't know what the number of such objects is. I don't know if there are any, but I think it would be a good idea for us to predict the possibility of rebuilding and such objects if there were. What I was saying, and now I'm glad to hear from the assembly and the vice president of the government is that we would be glad that today at the beginning of the debate, we were kind of approached by the state of the month after what was on the ground, what was removed, how many houses were cleaned, how much more to clean. So let's see what that is in these thirty days maybe specifically done. Because like I just said, a lot of people showed up and said they had to get out of their own houses, out of their own living rooms, even other economics, so all those things that the water left behind. I think today, too, should have been brought closer and presented to us in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81719	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC and Independent Representatives of fellow Members Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's not there, the club's losing the right to debate on this wheel. We're moving on to an individual debate. Vice President Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81720	I thank the esteemed vice president. So Croatia hit a disaster. Millennium waters have come, waters that don't come once in a hundred years or once in five hundred years, but once in a thousand years. Nasips are always built for some conjecture as to what kind of water stops they might be. This time the water stops were a meter higher than ever the most recorded water stops. Such a disaster is impossible to predict or prevent. But we can fight her when she comes and we can do what we do now to undo her consequences. What was Croatia's reaction? Well we can proudly all point out, the Croatian Government, Croatian Waters, the military, police, firefighters, the Mountain Rescue Service all reacted quickly, responsibly, in quality. They suffered themselves at the outset partially because they refused evacuation, insisted on staying in their homes, did not believe that the water would come. That's understandable. The man reluctantly leaves his own property that is understandable, but that is, if they had listened to the government's calls, the Home Office could have saved some of the property, some of the animals, and would not have put themselves at risk as they were exposed. It must be a reminder to all of us that we have more trust in the institutions of the system, that the Ministry of the Interior is giving some kind of warning that he knows what he's saying. How did the rest of Croatia react? How did the citizens react? Well, I'd say fantastic, incredibly fantastic. There was no person who didn't include food, water, clothing, shoes, hygiene supplies, money, anything, anything that was necessary. It wasn't even organized. People reacted spontaneously. Croatia has not seen such unity since the war. The water is as strong as it came with itself and all the differences between us and united us in order to help as much as anyone can and can. Never that kind of unity. I heard only one dissonant tone, the mayor of the Vukovar-Srijem god Galic. He complained that when the government came to visit the affected area, it did not visit him. Imagine, she didn't visit him. She visited the victims and didn't visit him. He's more important than them, in his own eyes. I'm particularly antipathetic when someone else's accident is trying to make political extra profits. And that's exactly what Mayor Galic was trying to do when he was angry with the government. He yelled at the government the way he yelled at me yesterday at my colleague Schucker to lie. Why? Just because I said he was a minister in the government of a high-level traitor at a time when that government was making high treason decisions. But Mayor Galic also had an additional reason to yell at the government and draw attention from an important topic. In fact, Mr Galić was a member of the Governing Council of Croatian Waters and was overseeing the Administration of Croatian Waters, and at the time the Croatian Water Administration concluded with the Vinkovac water industry work in the construction of the embankment, I think the price was 22 million kuna. And that's exactly the rash that broke. And right in that company, the county in which the mayor Galic is mayor has 20% shares. So now to draw attention to that fact, he blamed the Croatian government and the current Croatian Water Administration, which has neither worked nor had anything to do with it that broke. They say that's where the people were stolen and the gravel was right there. Now he's been stealing, not stealing, it'll establish an investigation. That might not matter now. Now you need to help. Well, how is it supposed to help? Fast and efficient. It is the purpose of this law to provide quick and effective assistance. Not to conduct public procurements where the one who failed to complain will then go to some commission and the whole thing will be settled in three years. We must give this trust to those who will run the business, that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that this work will be done with honor and honesty. Because if we make it harder for help, it'll be too late, and we won't make it. He shouldn't be envious of the government for doing her job well, as high as possible, throwing clips at her feet, and even with this law, looking for hair in her egg. I think we should back him up. If someone thinks they can fix it with an amendment, let's fix it. I personally suggested three amendments. But to nag about Article 4 or Article 37 now, I don't think it makes any sense. There is no time, the summer is at the door, until autumn, until winter most of the work must be done. The prime minister said the government is taking responsibility. And this is a test for the government. There's talk of people having to throw these things out on their own, and that's good, I think it's good to be involved in this business and cleaning and reparation. I think it's a great idea to put containers there and that these people can be there and participate in rebuilding houses, to be present, to watch it done, to give any suggestions of their own. I think that's good. That these victims themselves should be included. Those who can't help themselves if they're old and they're powerless, but those who can do it themselves need to organize and allow them to do it. There's money, money just has to be for it, money still collects. Yesterday I was just at a play at ITD Brljić Theatre "I hate the truth" and all the revenue from the tickets from that show, and it was full of going to rebuild the victims. Great show, who hasn't seen her so far I recommend that she look at her, especially those who earn it in the Assembly when the debate is being held as if we're at a football game I recommend that they go to the theater, maybe it enlarges them a little bit, maybe change them a little. If they don't throw actors in there. I hope that this law will be unanimously adopted and that it will win the success that it was written for, that we will succeed in helping people in Slavonia who have died. We have shown as a nation, as citizens, we have shown this unity. Let's show it to the end, support the government in its efforts, and here as a legislative authority, let's help make this law as good as possible and help Slavonia through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81721	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81722	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We said that today we should not look for what these diverse political or calling names say, but I am not a lawyer to anyone, so anyone who has a role or fingers in what was around the dikes in Rajev Selo would not want to comment. I guess the investigation will also show what caused the shooting of the embankment in Raj's Village. But what you said was that institutions, institutions, should be trusted and listened to, I was in the Rats 7 days after, about 23.24 May, so the citizens of the Rats told me that they had had a major conflict almost physically with employees of Croatian Waters who had not given them the channel towards Spačva, they did not give it to them because they didn't need it and they were there on their own, and the police helped them, even the employees of the Ministry of Interior to break that channel. And that is when the flood began, and Racinovac, and Rajev Sela, although Gunja was slightly smaller, when the water originated with that channel that was established by the operation, so the work of the local population rather than the Croatian Waters institutions towards Spačva. So, so much for finding some institutions in those moments where people themselves, villagers, knew where there was a former old stream called Drenovac or Drenovec, which the water swelled towards the Spačvan forest. Now, about the institutions so much and I'm talking about this dilapidation and that, at that moment, it's common to me when the prime minister came, and the ministers to put it on the spot, that there in the Rats, as long as it could have come or to Rajo Selo to be with the prime minister and mayor, so that's what I think is normal. In this situation of tragedy, we should all be together, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81723	Thank you. Replication response. Take advantage of each replica for a few seconds more, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81724	There, thank you very much. I'm not giving any more replicas from here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81725	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81726	I really don't know why the mayor didn't come, I also think he should have come. He was head of the county's crisis headquarters and the county crisis headquarters warned citizens not to go outside despite a police call. That crisis center of his told the citizens don't leave your homes needing us to do that. It was the actions of Mayor Galic. Well then perhaps because of that shame, he did not appear out of shame when the official delegation came because he knew that his headquarters had done absolutely nothing. And it's very good, I think the government reacted to a time when it declared a disaster, because when it declared disaster, all the responsibility was taken over by the government and it pulled all the strings. If it were waiting any further, I'm afraid that according to the operations of the county headquarters and the god of Galic the disaster would be 10 times larger.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81727	We'll hear another speaker, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81728	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honoring ministers with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I can say that I agree with the vice president of the house who spoke before me in greater matters, which is certainly that May 2014 will be particularly remembered in Eastern Slavonia, but not only in Eastern Slavonia but also in all of Croatia because it may have brought us these catastrophic floods. We witnessed an unremembered disaster, terrible human stories, people lost everything, some unfortunately lost their lives. It was a terrible tragedy. It never happened again. I hope we can learn some lessons from these floods. We talked a lot about the government's reactions, and there I would agree with the estimates that the reaction was timely and good, so competent services were hired, police were hired, an army was hired to protect property, human lives and ensure the evacuation of the population when it was quite clear that the dikes would yield. A whole series of decisions have been made, the Government's aid and flood rescue affected the area, I think there are eight. So one of the speakers said the tenth, I'll stick to that number. However, the assessment was that a quality and rapid recovery of floods also requires a special law that is before us today and that we are discussing today. But what unfortunately we politicians have failed to show so much, which is consensus and unity, our citizens have shown. And I think they sent us a very good message here. The vice president of the home said that Croatia and Croatian citizens have not been this unique since the Homeland War. Yes, here I agree absolutely, all those who have survived the Homeland War know what this means, especially by the war affected areas and the level of unity here was truly envious and indeed commendable. Help is being collected, people have been leaving, taking their time, some have even taken vacations to go and defend the dikes, graduates from the parish organized themselves and defended their city instead of drinking in the streets and wildling out how graduates often do it. Just to illustrate, this is the data from 28 May of this year, 1682 employees and volunteers of the Croatian Red Cross who participated in the provision and collection of aid for the flood affected areas were hired. 7116 persons were registered at that time with the Croatian Red Cross located in the constituencies or in families that received people with floods of affected areas. 5150 warm meals and 3740 dry meals were distributed daily, and 52,278 859,71 kunas were collected on that day, which was paid to the jury’s Red Cross account, which, therefore, was collected on the phone almost all the time since the floods began. These are impressive figures and these are figures that deserve congratulations and great gratitude to all volunteers, all who have given their time, who have given their work, to all those who have given their money. Someone mentioned before that a lot of people donated, even those who don't have, but it's not the same when someone gives 100 kunas who doesn't have, who lives on welfare and when someone gives 100 kunas who has a big salary. And that's something that really needs to be evaluated and commended that the whole nation has been solidarity, homogenized and helped by those who have been killed. This law, i.e. this legislative proposal, regulates the way and procedure for the adoption of programmes and resolution measures following these catastrophic floods in Vukovar-Srijem County. After the adoption of the laws, the Government will immediately adopt a programme of restoration and resolution of the consequences of the disaster, and the ultimate goal, as countless times has been said here, is to create conditions for the establishment of normal life and the continuation of economic, educational, cultural and all other activities in floods affected. I think these are more than good reasons to support this bill. And as some speakers have said, any constructive remark, the proposal, each amendment should be accepted, should be heard in order to ultimately make a more quality legislative proposal that will help those who need help most effectively and quickly. Unfortunately, we were also witnessing that again... some spirits of the past who absolutely had nothing to do with this debate and that is what saddens me, as I am, here before was mentioned, the relationship of some local leaders to the government, towards legally elected authorities in the Republic of Croatia who have indeed, I think, acted more correctly and well in these conditions. But what I would like to point out, and with that I will finish my discussion, there are other areas that are also affected by the flood. These are the ends of Sisak-Moslavina County, that is the Naški end, so the town of Nasice, the Municipality of Podgorica, and I am sure that the government will also forget them, that these people will be helped, and above all, that they will be working on a system of water and flood defenses so that they will never again witness catastrophes of these proportions. So once again, I call upon you by consensus to pass this law because citizens have shown us how we should behave in these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81729	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81730	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, here's a short one. Of course this should be a consensus, and any excessive political debate today has been over. What is important to stress once again is that unity should be permanent until we give people hope for a better life in the flooded area, both in Gunja and in the village of Raj. Imagine a new renovated house, big and small, so that there's a golden door, and when you bring them back home, there's no one in that house. Imagine a family with two, three kids studying, going to high school, who until before this disaster, unfortunately big, didn't even have a job, were social cases, lived badly. I think our common consensus, so-called. The unity that we often do not have in Croatia, should be that it is, yesterday was difficult, today is a flood and it is even harder, and tomorrow must be better. This law will only allow for the renewal to take place and the state to find funds if it is able, and must be, to move towards reconstruction. In one day in that humanitarian action, we raised 3.5 million kuna, and it takes half a billion. So this unity should be at all times and even our efforts to try and make sure that these people have faith and hope in life in their new homes after this. Then we did a lot, and then we won't deal with it, not you and me, but there are ghosts of the past that will sit in the Parliament for a while, unfortunately, we will deal with the future of Croatia. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81731	Domagoj Hajdukovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81732	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, I couldn't agree more. We are too small a people to be divided. We can have different views, we can constructively debate, but at the end of the day we need to be unique. And those parts, I agree with you, should be helped because these are the ends that were affected by the Homeland War. So once they've been faced with extraordinary hardships, some of them have lost everything once, now they've lost again. And I really need to help them, and I agree with you, and I believe that the government will, but we need each and every one of us to work to help those who need us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81733	We'll continue the debate at 3:00. First of all, she'll be a colleague of Mirela Holly's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81734	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81735	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, more colleagues than colleagues. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I will support the final draft law on the resolution of the consequences of the Vukovar-Srijem County disaster because I hope that this law will help the injured population in the flooded areas, which is the main obligation of us MPs and MPs to pass laws that will facilitate and improve life and living conditions. But I can't help but stress on this occasion that we're passing this law because the system isn't working. If we lived in an orderly country where in the event of natural disasters like this there are well-developed intervention plans, the readiness of all services, the quality of adaptation strategy, then the consequences of these floods would be far less. But we live in the system we live in, and unfortunately we have to pass laws like this. As regards the wording of the opening argument itself, I cannot mention that it is necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget for the implementation of the proposed law, but without any explanation of how much the assessment of these funds is and from which source, or from which items of the budget, these resources will be provided. The text of the bill itself is not much more informative, and this is rather unusual because it is not small amounts, and you are not small amounts will have to be found but from now very tense and tense and insufficient budget. The intentions are good, but also the best idea, the best project or policy means nothing unless we have precisely defined financial instruments for the real implementation of these ideas and intentions. It would be extremely bad for this document to remain a dead letter on paper, the government and parliament's declarative support to the victims of the population, and that will happen if in such an easy way they cross over what is the most important part of each recovery, and that is money. It is wonderful that Croatian citizens and citizens have shown their great heart and have largely joined the collection of funds and humanitarian aid to the affected areas. However, it also says that the system in Croatia is not working because the system would not require donations from citizens and donations in water. I must admit that I was startled when I heard of the expression of such needs by the competent institutions of the country which is 5th in the EU by the wealth of water resources. In Croatia, in all cities and municipalities, water from taps of good health quality, the question is whether it is only normal to ask citizens for donations in bottles of expensive purchasing water, or whether it is a manifestation... of the disorganization and creaminess of the authorities. I hope it's about creaminess, not a desire to please some producers whose profits are on the water and without it astronomical. Namely, these water concession companies pay around 20 million kuna a year, and their annual income is 2 billion kuna, which is a good ratio for an even better profit that should not be further helped in cases of this kind of human accident. Was it so complicated to provide water for the population with truck tanks, or drinking water tanks? How much would that cost the state, and how much did it cost to supply water from the bottle? I think the public needs to get insight and information that suggests that we are not acting as a state in a serious economic crisis but as a state of drunken oil shakes. When we talk about this subject, we must also bear in mind that wise states and wise authorities of crisis situations can turn into an opportunity. I would like to think that the Government will use this extremely difficult and tragic situation and crisis as an opportunity to put wind in the back of the fallen industrial sector in Croatia because the recovery of flooded areas will require not only large amounts of construction material, the engagement of construction companies that have been feeling this economic crisis for 6 years. HGK and HUP warn that the production volume of construction materials and equipment is lower by approximately 60% compared to the last year before the crisis, which was in 2007. It is indisputable that the recovery of infrastructure, road and municipal, as well as facilities in private and public ownership will be extremely financially invasive for the state budget, but as I just pointed out to the Government if it wants to turn this crisis into an opportunity for partial recovery of the Croatian economy, and thus for the state budget. This means, of course, that the recovery of flooded areas is carried out in the direction of Croatian companies and the use of Croatian products, construction materials, products and equipment used in the construction and equipment of buildings such as concrete iron, cement, bricks, bricks, pipes, ceramics, sanitarys, technical textiles, radiators, parquets, fences, ovens, electric cables, furniture, container and modular objects, etc. In a letter to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Resort Ministers appealed to the necessary employment of domestic resources in the recovery of the consequences of this natural disaster and the execution of public works, and to the designers of the contractors of construction works, as well as the manufacturers of equipment and materials for construction, and proposes that, in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stock Reserve Act, the supply of goods intended for the recovery be carried out through the supply of goods. I think that this is a proposal that the government needs to consider and find a way to hire domestic companies in the recovery of flooded areas and thus turn this terrible accident into an opportunity to recover certain segments of the economy and also new employment of people. At the very end of the presentation, I will look back on what we should never ignore when speaking about this subject, and this is the necessity of adopting a quality adaptation strategy because these floods are just like previous floods, but the manifestation of climate change is the greatest global threat of today that will deteriorate and escalate in years, and therefore we must have an effective response to this threat. Every year, apart from the flood, we are threatened with droughts, and unless we do something urgent to adapt to climate change, our economy will completely disappear and collapse. The self-sustainability of each country is seen in three key sectors – food production, water management and energy supply. All these three sectors are intertwined with each other, and Croatia is desperately poor and is not self-sufficient in food production, which is a disgrace of enormous proportions in water management and energy production. Our agriculture depends today in mid-2014 on the state of the sky, and that is the responsibility of both these and all previous governments. The adaptation strategy must provide for better quality management of the embankment and channel freight network, system improvement informed because it is absolutely unacceptable that today with all technological progress, measuring devices, satellite images we are unable to predict flood scenarios in precisely defined areas. Croatian waters must modernise their flood defence system using moving barriers or mounts that have been highly successful for years and have been used by Swiss, German and Austrians. Mounting dikes are yet another great opportunity to open the so-called. green jobs in Croatia, for the engagement of domestic metal industries, for Croatian needs, but also for exports, because the need for installable dams will have all countries rich in rivers, including our neighbours Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, which are also hit hard with recent floods. This project is also an excellent example of that sustainable development is not an ambition to return people to the cave but a logical and rational use of the mind to develop new technologies, innovative solutions and to protect public goods, which certainly includes the general security of citizens and space. In the flood areas of Croatia, we should also consider the variants of so-called floating houses as part of adaptation to climate change, because the situation will not improve – on the contrary. Although these floods have devastated Slavonia, we must understand and accept the fact that we are not the masters of nature, that floods are a natural phenomenon that also plays a positive role in the eco system because the application of mud raises the quality of agricultural land. We need to learn to live with floods, adapt to them, leave room for natural spread of rivers in retention areas, and effectively protect the property and lives of people in urban, urban and rural areas by quality maintenance of the embankment and network of canals, montages, foresting especially of mountainous areas through which rivers flow. And lastly, I would advise the Government to consider the option of phyto-mediating contaminated soils in flooded areas by planting industrial hemp. How much industrial hemp is a high-quality contaminated soil cleaner best tells us that Japan plans to resuscitate the contaminated area around Fukushima by planting this exceptional culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81736	Thank you. There is a Boro Grubisic on this line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81737	Thank you very much. Comrade Holly, in your debate, you have turned to all possible ways of preventing the flood, so modern solutions, starting with these, to say the moving embankments of metals, etc. where we have a projecting industry that could in this region, so to our region, and in the environment of the countries that we have, which are rich in these rivers, could serve to produce exactly that kind of embankment. That's one thing. And the second thing I wanted to say about the renovation, so the domestic industry that would, that is, the construction industry. You know it's in the restoration that I've submitted several times and written enquiries, which are why materials imported from abroad are used, so from other countries, for example, I'm not going to name now, but I can. Here was the rebuilding chip coming from Kikinda, gravel and sand imported from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia. And so on, so on. hollow bricks also from neighbouring countries etc. We had the opportunity to renovate all these domestic resources and capabilities, but those who worked on the renovation used some other methods to get cheaper products and produce these objects, typical objects in one way that borders crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81738	The replica matches Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81739	Well, yeah, that's why I was just saying that for wise countries, any crisis is possible and an opportunity to rebuild for a little different development. What is sad is the fact that in Croatia, we have 16% of the construction waste in total, which is an extremely large quantity, far greater than we produce municipal waste, and that the construction waste ends in a very large proportion on illegal waste dumps instead of collecting on the intended recycling yards of construction waste and that there can be taken over for free and then produced technical stone, gravel and sand that would be extremely good here and now for the restoration of these devastated floods of the area. Of course, the Croatian industry has the potential to work on restoring not only the infrastructure, but also the private and public-owned houses. I believe that the government should find ways in which the reconstruction of these areas will include the Croatian industry, the construction sector, equipment and materials manufacturers, as this can ultimately have a positive impact on our GDP and the overall economic situation in the country. So this is a very big crisis, but it may also be an opportunity to partially rebuild our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81740	Thank you. The opportunity to present its debate for 10 minutes now is now being given to a respected representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I think that today, except for one or two debates, all colleagues have expressed their desire to pass this law as soon as possible and to help people who have been killed. And it's just good when these topics are discussed without any political remarks, but what's the function of this House of Commons and what's our basic task is to warn in such legislative proposals that if we consider that some things are not good or that they will be difficult to implement on the ground for the simple reason that we do not stop all the good intentions that exist definitely in this country. So I would go first of all, I don't understand why the act of the law for a year when it takes definitely two financial years, and then it would be logical for it to be 31.12.2015, because so on the 2015 Budget, it will have to provide for the funds so that this Article 4, which I will only talk about later, is only the 2014 Budget. So that would be something that makes sense. However, I simply have to start from this point 3 of the budget's reasoning and these are the evaluations of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law. In order to implement the proposed law, additional resources should be provided in the state budget. What is the meaning of the additional funding in the state budget? The budget cannot be increased. So, in the basic gauges if you plan to go as proposed by law. But at least we're told that the estimated or estimated damages are 100, 200, 300, 500, 600, 700 million doesn't matter how much but in principle it takes so much to secure because more or less the government probably already has data at this point which and how they need funds. But it's just proof of how much he's held up to this high house. But as of Friday, I am still talking about this article 4 and I am still saying that if he remains like this, those who are going to implement this law are in a lot of legal trouble. Therefore, if you look at what is provided for in Article 4 of this Article, it states, among other things, that for the purpose of providing funds for the resolution of the consequences of the disaster declared in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County affected by the flood, the redistribution of funds in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia on budgetary items in the case of budgetary users between budgetary users and non-financial users may be carried out in the amount greater than prescribed in the Budget Act. It's a provision that simply cannot be changed. One of these laws cannot derivate and is not stronger than the Budget Law. The budget law is a roof law, and you can't change it with any of these laws. The second thing, when such a provision is to be given, then the Budgetary Act must define it. Why? Because the budget law clearly states how budgets are used and it simply needs to be installed inside. However, the Government says by redistributing the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, the Croatian Parliament reports in half-yearly and annual reports. It's a disaster. The government should report all redistributions no later than 15 days before the Croatian Parliament. Because look, we only have a budget report for last year at this point. Therefore, this is a provision that is simply a disaster. Article 5 on public procurement, etc., that's when someone in their backyard sees that everything is beautiful and beautiful, and across the neighbor's board sees that everything is a disaster. That’s how someone who thinks about implementing this article 5 is probably thinking about having it. Article 19, reconstruction of buildings is carried out by means of a state budget collected from compensation for the retention of illegally built buildings. Did you notice in the Law on Legalization that all funds are paid into a particular account and that they are intended for that and that? If there is no such thing, then no one can say that these funds are used for something because it simply does not exist. You don't know in 108 or 110 billion or 120 because it doesn't say they're legal. But if she were to make a single payment, then someone might say she'd... a purely political decision in an article that has nothing to do with common sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the Ministry of Spatial Planning puts a $200 million expense into its position and cuts its expenditures by 200 million, then that's okay. But saying that the revenue from it will be 200 million rescheduled is just ridiculous. But I'm saying, there's a lot of things in this law, including that. This choice of performers based on a public call should only be commented. The financial means for the recovery of damage will be provided by Croatian road companies at the height of which the government decides. They can't provide anything more than they have, they can only ensure that the financial plan adopted by this High House is amended. So every other story is against the law. And then you have a series of articles that are repeated over and over again, saying that the ministries or extra budget users will provide funds in the budget. Where will he secure them if they're not here? If we're talking about redistribution, then we don't need to talk about this. And now we come to chapter 8, rights and obligations in debt tax. The debt tax doesn't exist. There is a tax obligation for someone to pay something on the basis of something, but the tax debt relationship does not exist in Croatia we at least do not have it in our financial terminology. And another thing, if it was intended to do so, then the Government was by some decision calling for a provision of income tax, profit tax, compulsory health and pension tax, to make a decision that these people had some sort of moratorium payment or something, and that no interest on their obligations or debts was charged on that day. However, since time is leaking to me, Article 38 of the grant of grants will be provided in the state budget, i.e. through donations and other sources. Look, colleagues and colleagues here, we're talking about funds that the government will secure from the state budget. And there cannot be any donations and other sources because they will not be paid into the Croatian budget. However, what is the worst and most dangerous donations referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article have been exempt from paying value added tax. This law cannot define it. You can change the Law on Value Added Tax, but I keep saying that these things are one-timely resolved by the State Budget Act where Janko Jankovic is precisely defined to buy a refrigerator to stop him and thus, bring confirmation that he handed over the refrigerator. Based on that confirmation, the one who sold him the refrigerator was released practically does not have to pay VAT into the state budget. Otherwise, you have room for manifesto and that's something we can't say that there wasn't, that you weren't and that you weren't, but if you leave such a provision that doesn't comply with any law because you say that something will be released from paying value added tax, and you didn't put it in the Value Added Tax Act, you didn't put it in the State Budget Act, it defines how income and expenditures of the state budget is something that's simply not sustainable. And that's why I said this morning that this law ad hoc was made. Because things like this can't be defined in this way. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council and of the European Parliament and of the Council. This is not provided in the state budget, because they have nowhere to be provided. They can be secured at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture exclusively by redistribution, and in order to redistribute, you must pass a law, amending the Law on the implementation of the state budget. You can't do it any other way. And you'll see, if this law stays like this, you'll see that next year will be the find of a state audit. Because it's not the first time things like this have happened in Croatia. However, colleagues and colleagues have something else, since 1.1.2012, the budget has been expelled, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget has executed the possibility of redistribution to prove as necessary to this Government. And now, out of some pride, it is not to be admitted that it is simply something that must exist in the State Budget Act and does not want to go with such a provision. In addition, funds for the supply of equipment and means of veterinary medicinal products shall be provided by means of a state budget, from which positions, from which the user, from where, from. And you have a series of provisions, which is why I did warn you on Friday on behalf of the club, and even today several times that this law is unfortunately inadmissible because if it is applied in this way, then those who are, who are implementing it, are in a pretty awkward situation that they can be responsible for something that simply has nothing to do with anything tomorrow. But this law of a colleague and a colleague, I don't see why the government's stubbornness, why it doesn't change the law on the implementation of the state budget, clearly defines how the funds will be provided, clearly provided. just please one more sentence, clearly provide tax treatment and then in 7, 8 articles define what the ministry needs to do. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81742	Thank you. Individual debate, respected Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna turn my debate a little differently. As for buildings, buildings, courtyards, halls, tractors, cars will be restored, there were worse things throughout the history of the Croatian people. It will be renewed, but I think we all here and Parliament and the government need to ask one basic question, which, and how, next, what if it happens again, what if it happens again? To that end, I used and asked people who did the job and asked them how it happened, how he could break through, etc. And what would be the solution so that this would no longer occur in the future, to the effects that caused the floods. They agreed that it would be a digging of the Danube-Sava canal in the length of how it was designed, 68 km, a width of 110 m and that this and such canal could receive the complete flow of Una and Vraba water immediately and now. And that the Danube River, when it comes to altitudes of 5m, is lower than the Sava River River, and that the Danube-Sava channel would operate under the law of the connected vessels, and that the Danube maximum, means water in the course of the Danube, which from Germany all the way to Croatia buy water from their territory during their time. As far as the Danube max is concerned, he always comes from the maximum of Sava. They also told me that our rivers are usually poured out, up to the 50s, it was usually two times a year, but that defending from the flood does not only seem to be a rash, but it is done, it is probably also known to you, and retentions, large retentions where in our retentions along the Sava says the waist can fit the amount of the normal flow of the Sava River, it can fit into the retentions that are made for that purpose. And for coastal waters, of course, to pump water with big pumps. The second thing I wanted to say here, I think one of the solutions is to clean up the Sava Riverbed, and not only Save but also other rivers of our own, and in that case, to avoid such catastrophic consequences. It was excavated 11 km, I don't know if you knew your colleagues and colleagues, 11 km of that canal was dug in Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County, 11 km and that those 11 km received all coastal waters of Gundinci, Babina beam, and saved Shamac and Krusevic from catastrophic floods. So it's one of the arguments that when these damages are all summed up, when the house is restored, when life is restored in these areas, I don't know if it's possible to calculate how much it's going to cost, I think it's impossible, but only then will we be able to see that we're supposed to invest in such an infrastructure facility as Kanal Danube-Sawa, that I'm not talking about its comparative advantages for the economy, for irrigation for the entire Slavonia area and the part that it can go through. And of course, the end of all those infrastructure facilities along the Sava River, for example. The INA terminal is being shut down in Slavonski Brod, and I don't know if you knew it, and I think it's time to finally port in Slavonski Brod and finish it because it's run by the Republic of Croatia. So, to conclude, colleagues and colleagues, I think that, I don't think, but the profession says, people I'm just a teacher, the profession says that by digging up Kanal Dunav-Sava for centuries these events would have been avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81744	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81745	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. So, fellow Djurdjevic, the replica, you're on your way to exposure, what if it happens again? In fact, you said it didn't happen, which should be done, to dig up the canals so that that water could be taken away like that. But if it does happen again, God forbid, we should have a regulated advance on what to do in cases like this, a bill that should regulate all of that, and not then the law to bring in ad hoc, which fellow Shucker says, and then how it turns out. Anyway, this should be our school to work on such a system law that should be prepared in case of such catastrophic situations, that it can only be applied neatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81746	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Goran Maric. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this agenda item. The last one for discussion came from a respected colleague, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81747	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As the people say in their sayings, and there's a lot of wisdom in those sayings, one evil never comes alone. So these floods, as said a fellow in the same county, Shimo Djurdjevic, can easily happen in such climate change and in times like this and in situations like this when we do not know how climate factors will react and what they react to, how the floods occur, will happen again. You've said well that every evil for any good, and that's what the people say. So, from this, from this disaster, we can learn a lot of lessons from this cataclysm in this debate, but even if there is a smart strategy of the government of the Republic of Croatia that longs to invest. Just in this segment of Cvelferija's restoration, so to speak, the cities and everything else, learn to continue to build 62 kilometers of Kanal Dunav-Sava more intensively, except for those 11 kilometers that have been built, and then build on the Danube port of Vukovar, on Savi Shamac and Slavonski Brod with an entrepreneurial zone that already exists or is to be opened in Slavonski Brod. So one investment would draw immediately and another which would be of great benefit to the Republic of Croatia crying out, yearning for investment. And so, we have Kanal Dunav-Sava, that he was in the form in which the project was planned, quite certainly, given the difference in the height of the Danube and the Sava, all the water could be released northward, towards the Danube and to such a disaster and such, or the cataclysm of these proportions would not come with all the retentions of the lateral channels that exist, which have already been made, but very few are not clean properly and not maintained properly. Well, even those dikes you were talking about, you were on your own, and I was on the lattice in Slavonski Brod and in Jarugami, New City,..., not to speak any further, the Shamcu, where your dikes are completely grassed up, it's hard to spot them, if the water passes through the grass and notice where that water broke out under the embankment, at the root of the embankment. As far as this law is concerned, it is good and noble intentions, so to the citizens who live in Cvelferia, Gunja, Rachinovci, Rajev village, Rats,..., Đurići, Strošinci is also the law of hope, hope for survival in this area and first return, and then survival in that area. When I mentioned these Strošincas, then we need to know how the water came to Strošinci at all. By saving in the autonomous province of Vojvodina,... there was water released from the Sava that came to Strošince to the Spachvan forest. It wasn't the water from Gunja and Rachinovci that came to Strošinci, but it came back from another country. So the flooded Strošins were sacrificed somewhat for other objects in the other area. That it is necessary to equalise the victims in their rights, regardless of whether they were killed in the cvelferia or in Croatia Kostanica or in the Sisak-Moslavina County, villages in the Sisak Posavina which were flooded in February and March and which also visited the Government and ministers of the Republic of Zagreb as well as in Zagreb County. In any case, the flood victim is the flood victim in any area, because the damage that was done to him and that damaged his housing facility and the economic building is a damage that someone has to calm down. He has to fix it, he has to invest additional funds. He lost everything that could have been lost. I've got this law here so-called. Shucker's doubts, is that what I would call it, and in connection with other laws concerning this law, in order to bring into line and the budget resources that would be in line with this legislative proposal. I would not go into the very core and the essence of this problem of harmonising these laws, I think that today, regardless of our debates, we have all shown here that good will and good intentions are to help these legal proposals to those people who have found whatever disaster, flood, cataclysm or whatever name you use. What is really here I will not say shyly but in one sentence said that the tax on donations will not be charged, that I have long been saying here in this Croatian Assembly for both demining and others. So just look at the humanitarian aid calls on HTV. Then you see it written by calling you donate 5.5 kuna plus VAT. We pay VAT for every charity action. Well, that's exactly what it takes, I know the state cares about filling the state budget, but just to help kids with leukemia, say, humanitarian or any other humanitarian aid, and that's what phone calls are about. So this time it seems to me that on that number 060 90 11 there is no VAT which is missing from God that for the first time, I was happy and of course I called that number to help, but this time it seems that exactly this VAT was left out as I say is good. So, this year we had floods first in February and March in Sisak-Moslavina and part of Zagreb County, and then the flood broke out here in Slavonia, in the river Orljava on the left at the Pleternica River and in Brodo-Posavia County villages along the Oraljav Ciglenik, Bečic, Lužani, Malino etc. And then this big area of the cvelferia. And if we were to add up the damage to all the floods in the plural I speak in the Republic of 2013, I believe that we would reach those famous 0.88% of GDP in order to get help from the EU Solidarity Fund. Unfortunately, it seems rather unthinkable to me, so it is said that I will no longer quote and repeat it, it is said that we may seek help for the sake of order, so it is a disheartening statement by those who are in charge of demand for natural disasters and such disasters, or cataclysms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81748	We've got two lines reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81749	I won't do it again when the replicas are reported, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81750	We've got two lines reported. First dear Damir the Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81751	Dear fellow Grubisic, a few denials, so you mentioned now in your discussion of the floods that were in 2013 and this now, so to sum it up cumulatively, it is impossible to do this because you have 12 weeks to report it to the European Commission since the announcement of the elemental accident, so the the thesis simply does not stand. So in short, you and I have met on the highway many times when I entered Slavonski Brod and visited the dikes, but what I really wanted to replicate to you you mentioned Kanal Dunav-Sava, I think it is more important than that part to stress that Croatia is part of the EU Strategy for the Danube region, and that one of the priorities of this Danube region is actually protection from floods. In that part, I think we should all work together on clear and healthy planning that, let's call it strategic planning, just to protect against floods. So I have already pointed out several times today that other than the Solidarity Fund, there are structural funds in which there is a much greater amount of money. So it is very important how to use in Croatia flood protection both in the Danube area and in the Sava area in the future because we have witnessed it seems to me that fellow Shime has been talking about it, therefore it is changing, and it is very likely that we will have such or similar floods in this year, but it is safe for the year. So when looking at the flood frequency in the Republic of Croatia for ten years back, floods are taken with droughts the largest share in total damage in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81752	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81753	Thank you very much. My colleague, I think we're on the same line in the debate, but God forbid you're psychic Milan, then I'd be very scared that this flood, the millennium as Mr. Vice President of the Parliament said, so that it could happen again this year or next, that would be really very, very disastrous. Well, then, if that's what you're thinking, then it's not just structural, I would ask you which funds Serbia has received a billion euros from. The state itself without involvement in cross-border cooperation of flood protection with Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Structural funds are one but there is also a European Union Solidarity Fund. Thus, structural funds and structural funds projects fall into what the Republic of Croatia regularly pulls from structural funds. So, in terms of cohesion and structural funds. And these are extraordinary funds, I'm not talking about what the Republic of Croatia gets with a 600m-euro application in the European Union as the Minister of Agriculture says, so we're going to make a cattle fund out of these funds. Well, it's actually automatically reducing others or reducing funds for some other projects. If we're going to use those funds from the structural funds to flood now. And let's invest in the end of the Danube initiative, and we have the Sava initiative whether, let's invest in the Danube-Sava channel. Why your government has never encouraged and given greater importance to the Danube-Sava Canal. As a matter of fact, she wasn't the one before the government either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81754	Second replica of the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81755	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your debate, as well as everything else, is going towards the adoption of this law in as high quality as possible in order to help the areas that are threatened by this catastrophic flood. A colleague, Djurdjevic, also talked about ways to avoid it in the future. And I'd like to touch on a segment that's talking about maybe it's high time to think about introducing a quality civil protection law. I think it is necessary and that this disaster, unfortunately, once again shows how much one organised form of activity, is therefore a segment that should be the bearer of all the activities that solve such disasters whether natural or not God causes even worse causes. So we should have done it a long time ago, and I'm interested in your opinion, but I think it's high time we got into Parliament one quality law that we're all going to support or we might wait for God's new disaster and reaction to come back too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81756	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81757	Thank you very much. I spoke to my colleague, Milas, about the Danube-Sava channel, the retentions, what your colleague Djurdjevic was saying, about prevention, so to prevent and because of the climate change that Mr. Roman used to say and... So preventing such new events, God forbid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as long as you are, and civil protection works in case you don't give up on God again. And it's good to have both. And I agree with you that after 20 years of Croatia and more than Croatia's independence we should finally get that institution because look what happened when the flood broke out, it was not known who was doing, who and what was in charge. Is this the Vukovar-Srijem Crisis Station, is it the State Administration of Protection and Management, the Fire department, the police, the military, all landed but the damage was as it was and was not possible at that time to do something better. However, if there is a civil protection system that exists in almost all countries, then why did Croatia leave it out. We may not have a lot of answers to that ourselves, but in any case, we should have a serious debate in this House, and that would be my opinion, so my opinion is affirmative, so yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81758	The final five minutes on behalf of the HDS Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go. I'm sorry, HDZ, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: HDZ]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81759	I know, Mr. Vice President, that you'd be happy not to have to say more HDZ, but unfortunately, you'll have to put up with it for a long time. My colleagues and colleagues really apologize for taking up your time, but I would like to warn you of something that I did not arrive at in my individual debate, which is Article 34. Because I do not understand the provision of this article and the basis of which law it will be able to implement, which unfortunately characterizes many of the provisions in this law. So he says that if a recovery field is to be set up for exploitation, in fact an exploitation field for rehabilitation and construction of how the construction and reconstruction of roads State Administration Office of State Property will establish the right of service without compensation for the benefit of companies. If I'm not mistaken, this is the jurisdiction that Mr. Vice President at the Ministry of Economy has usually given such permits regarding exploitation and everything the state's office manages the property. However, I would like to warn you that this provision cannot be defined so easily that half the sentence in one article is something that is very dangerous. If you give someone an exploitation field, then you just have to define the quantities and everything else that's going to happen with that exploitation field. But I say as many articles are unfortunately undefined. And colleagues and colleagues must be aware of us if we pass a law like this we have practically given various ministries to sorting out all the rules of the game that will take place far from this High House. I would now return to Article 13 and paragraph 2 and that is the donations referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article have been exempt from value added tax. There is no exemption under the Directives of the European Union. That is why I have said, Mr Vice President, that this should be incorporated into the Law on the implementation of the state budget where it can be precisely defined how this donation goes and from the moment when the donor has acquired it and gives it to whoever will ultimately donate it and what kind of confirmation the state will regulate that there is no obligation to pay value added tax. Just to be clear, remember that we had to abolish the zero rate for bread and milk because the zero rate doesn't exist, so this Article 38 simply can't survive as it is and I'm sorry that the government hasn't taken a little effort to make things right in this period of Friday to this day. We, as Col. Milicevic said, will support this bill on behalf of the club and it is in our interest to bring it forward as soon as possible, but many of the provisions of this law are simply inconclusive because those who implement it will have a lot of problems to operate it all together. It might be good to go with some conclusion tomorrow, that many of the provisions of this, at least this financial part of the government will define the provisions of the State Budget Act, given that certain payments will not take place in the next 10 days, so that the law can be practically found at the beginning of the 7th month and in such a way, in the name of the HDZ Club and in some experience we want to help the government be more operational and deal with operational affairs, and not to invent ways to solve certain administrative problems, and that is, in principle, the worst because ultimately, this law tells us that all together, not only this government but also governments before that, they simply didn't foresee certain things, some things cannot be settled by legal provisions today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81760	Thank you. The final word of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mr Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. For a long time we've talked about this, I'm going to try certain answers during this debate that were given, I hope it's a good thing that you have that information, too. First of all, I have to say that there's not one country ready for disaster, that's something that can't be true. Namely, waiting for disaster or for us to pass a law that would predict some kind of disaster, with which amount of money and so on, we'll be able to react, that's something that's impossible. But that's why the response to the disaster and the resolution of the consequences amongst other things is, there's one part in front of you after these months have passed and where the state has made a series of decisions and everything you'll see in the report. I would remind you that within 30 days, the Government must receive a State Headquarters report based on a decision to declare a disaster in accordance with the Law on Protection and Rescue, which, of course, goes to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia from which it will be clearly visible what all moves are made from the period of declaration of disaster until the day that this headquarters actually did its part of the job. As for the data on discrimination, yes, the answer is true. There is a difference between the areas that were first affected by the flood, Pleternica, Požeško-Slavonska, Sisak-Moslavina, part of Brod-Posavina. I said it publicly, thanks to the implementation of plans to protect and rescue that specifically the Brod-Posavina County has done the greatest service it could in areas that are flooded. Also, about the assessment of the damages, they are not completed, that is why we cannot talk at this time about the amounts and if you have carefully read all about this law that is adopted under the urgent procedure, its foothold is located right in consultation with the Office of Legislatives in the Constitutional Provisions. Appreciating this House as the main legislative body to make decisions and respecting the fact that it is an extraordinary situation, the consequences that have never occurred since the war in the Republic of Croatia and that the damage that has taken place, it is also necessary to have a reaction to this House of Commons. Also, I must say that the elemental disasters, what has been prescribed by law, and what the mayors have declared to be elemental disasters, from where the flooded areas in those in which no disaster has been declared, cannot be compared to what happened in Gunja, Rajev village, not to list further, Strošinci, Podgaci, etc. About the budget, yes, it is true, what you were saying, which is that the legal provisions are what they are, so I and... to accept this part of the Constitutional Provisions and this part that you have suggested, and also to consult with the Assistant Minister of Finance, as I did. It is true that this law is for special needs, that it is called to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that it goes beyond what is otherwise provided for in other legal solutions, otherwise there would be no need to bring it. The reason why the government decided to do this, precisely so that, as soon as possible, it would skip all those barriers, not changing all those laws that would need to be changed to resuscitate and normalise life in these areas. I have to take this opportunity to say that when we talk about normalising life in that area, then I have to immediately rule out all these ideas, which is that it might happen to some illegal object or that an object that isn't even registered for legalization, this country is being rehabilitated. I'll be very specific and open about it. Let's go after the fact that there are normal conditions for those who live and who have to go back, not to get the situation so that as few people as there were in that area for this flood and the damage goes away from there. For this reason, all the activities were directed to avoid turning these people into exiles, to place them in facilities that this country has at its disposal and to end up with a story that after a few years they and their children are actually residents of other cities throughout the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, information that was on the ground itself, especially about the security of citizens and property, this High House can proudly report that none of the thefts on the territory that was flooded were there. During their period since the break-in in Rajev Sela occurred and to this day, thanks to the activities of the Croatian police, 6 people who tried to take advantage of the occasion, which was that they had opened the waterway by boat to reach the Gunja area were prevented in that intention. Although they had to flee, the police failed to catch them, but the fact is one, that they were stopped in an obvious intention to take advantage of the occasion. I would now not be telling you the data from my colleagues from the Republic of Serbia or BiH, I would rather not tell you, but what we have said, which is a guarantee of the security of citizens and property has been fully implemented from the first to the last day with two police stations involved on the ground, as the Vrbanja Police Station has been moved to complete the management of the territory plus the border crossing of Gunja-Brcko, which has made it possible to strictly control itself with the most modern technique any attempt to enter the BiH side. About the very organization of citizens and how the state needed it, I think there will be an opportunity to hear it through the report. I just have to say one thing, and that's that long before the rash broke in Raj's Village, members of the dedicated armed forces were based on the decision of the State Administration to protect and rescue on the ground, that at no point was there anyone without the police, the military and the like, but it's true that the same logic as the county headquarters had to take over from local headquarters, that such a variant of the state that was on the ground was very quickly seen that complete management and coordination had to be taken over and the situation is today such that, in fact, after 20 days of action on the territory for the first time in history and the first time in the way it worked out that the job had been done. Just by avoiding any political connotations, I have to say that one of the greatest successes that happened there is that just the cooperation of local, county, all the rush services that were on the ground, volunteers with quality coordination led to today's fact that we can deny those sentences that were heard here, which is that someone is difficult to get to their houses which is not true. We had two victims on the first day and no one else. An epidemic has been stopped and any cases that could have happened afterwards. So no one was napping, people were in the field, and they were very careful to prevent any cases that could naturally be new casualties. As far as the line is concerned, I regret that there are no representatives of Bora Grubisic and his incorrect information that Serbia has received a billion euros for these floods, which is of course not true. It is only a text that says Serbia will have a billion euros available from pre-accession projects by 2020. What is true, which is that a donor conference will be organised at which Croatia as a member of the European Union cannot participate, and the damages in BiH are significantly greater than in the Republic of Croatia. Also when we talk about those 280m euros and when we talk about funds that could be intended solely for damage to infrastructure, I repeat on infrastructure. That's that famous percentage of GDP. Let me remind you, the Solidarity Fund, which was founded in 2002 in the European Union right now for the purpose of flooding, is precisely for the victims in the regulated European Union countries. But let me just say one Frisce example, which is that at the time we applied together with Slovenia for the assistance of the European Union for the damages that have been going on with us means somewhere at 15m euros, in Slovenia 39m euros, we received one part of that aid. It amounted to cca 260 000 euros, Slovenia received about 3 million and Austria another part. Therefore, it should be known that in these moments, the Republic of Croatia must rely primarily on its own strength in its part of the commitment. Of course we won't miss any opportunities to ask for funds that are possible to be obtained, but to expect or to display certain events with damages that would not help, I repeat, directly to what is in this law and written. Because when we talk about helping you see that it is primarily directed at people, individuals, citizens, and only one small part at the infrastructure. I would also like to say that the issue of supervision that must be regular, I absolutely agree that any occasion that any of this situation, even with the decision-making position, can be used for a speedy procedure and that it could be the basis for any ruse, I must say that the intention of this law is not only the law of good intentions, but it is definitely given priority, or priority to speed up the procedure to normalise the situation on the ground and in any case control not only through the ministries and through the obligation to report to the Government but also through all regular bodies that have to control the conduct of all these same ministries. That means, first of all, I'm thinking about State Audit. I know that the sentence that they don't trust the government, don't trust the state, don't trust the politicians, but I think today's opportunity is for the parliamentary deputies to come to the support of this law to make this a commitment for the government to realize everything that has been started and I assure you that in the field of 17 last month, what I could hear from the citizens is not today 17 this month, because they saw that there are moves, that there is work, that this country is not only solidarity of its citizens through humanitarian aid but also through the activities of the institutions did take steps that not only give hope but they are saying that it's a willingness to realise this law absolutely. As for the shooting of the dikes, I will not comment, of course, but I know the State's Attorney's Office immediately ordered criminal research to be conducted and they will report to the public what stage they reached. But I'm saying this for another reason, which is if it wasn't for shooting the embankment in Raj's Village, then neither would I stand here today in front of you, nor would we talk about these damages, nor would what happened happen. So I wouldn't have predicted disasters so easily. I must say that some of the things that happened especially to our neighbours about digging sand in Sava actually created a retention that saved our area among other things, so the water was floating on the other side, that it was actually situations of what we went through last year if you remember the Danube that had died in all countries on the same path from beginning to heaven except Croatia. Of course there's plenty of room to advance, that's one big school. This is what I will discuss at the time when we come up with a proposal to amend the Protection and Rescue Act which can further make serious reactions as well as in the use of the goods reserves that the Republic of Croatia has and which have been fully used all these days and that is why certain things are retroactively sought through this legal solution. What I want to remind you of is that the intensity was to help the victims to normalize life as soon as possible. I therefore urge you to understand the special need of this special decision of this very House of Commons to support in order to address the consequences that have occurred in part of our fellow citizens. At no point did I say that there is no willingness to accept the improvement of this law, I agree with that. But I'm asking you to take care of the weather. It seems that it is much easier to build a rash than to pass a law that would build that rash. So in all the plans and all the things you're going to be, and I believe there's been a lot of support, actually the intensity to help. It's a restricted area, one county, it's about a space with a circus of 11 and a half thousand people who had to leave their homes and I'm sure for that reason you have an understanding of that sentence that says additional funds will be provided in the budget. Just using this constitutional provision, and even one precedent which, given this consequence that happened, is true, is not listed inside and is not left to the ministries to do so but are already due within 7 days when this House adopts, the day after the announcement is obliged to submit all plans and programmes for the Government of the Republic of Croatia through monthly reporting to have information on what was done in that area. So I'm going to consult, of course, with my colleagues about all these proposals that have been made, which have been given and I believe that this support that we've had through the conversation, that in this year too, I'm going to say again why a year. One reason, of course, is that anyone who goes into these kind of work should, of course, be most interested in having what longer time to make them. I think you just need to lift this scale exactly the way that it has to be realized in a year. I agree with the fact that there's a space where it's in two budget years, but I hope it won't have to come to a situation that we're looking for a extension of deadlines for one reason, and that's then there wouldn't be a need to pass a special law. Because if we'd gone with the regular law, then we could probably be alone in two or three years using everything that was there, knowing how the contests were going, how it all happened together. I think it's good for him to stay this way, that it's an obligation to finish that story in that time. Because otherwise, I claim that there will be a problem, and that is that many will find life elsewhere thanks, among other things, to the intended assistance that is also for temporary accommodation. And I am afraid that extending deadlines as usual in the Republic of Croatia would make a temporary solution a permanent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81762	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81763	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, with all possible interventions and persuasions, it seems I failed with the Government, but I would warn you, Mr. Vice President, of the provision of Article 46(1). The budget law which states that the appropriations cannot be redistributed except under the conditions and in the manner set out in this law. And in the law that you represent in the name of the Government, one part, budget or between budgetary users and non-financial users, can be executed in excess of the prescribed Budget Act. I don't see what kind of law enforcement is and what kind of lawyer can say that if this is roof law. That is why I have suggested that this problem be solved by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget because it can only be solved in such a way. And secondly, it is highly unacceptable for MPs in this House next year to receive information in the fifth month as to what position the funding for 2014 has been redistributed from, and for the first half of 2015 somewhere in the 9th month of 2015, and for the whole 2015 in the 5th month 2016. I don't think I see any reason for this House of the High within 15 days for the government to decide on the redistribution of funds not to send a report that these funds have been redistributed. However, I say there is obviously no good wish, but all this debate is about making it easier for you ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia, but you've obviously decided on a trip like this, so good luck to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81764	The replica is addressed by Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just by respecting this High House, he has been asked to make such a decision. I don't think there's a stronger body, which is why I repeated Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which respects this situation, can apply the variant and that is why. As far as everything else is concerned, I said that I would absolutely discuss all the remarks that were given to consult with my colleagues and that I would report on it. I hope that's the part you accept that I'm going to pass it on to them and talk to those same people to see what are the possible solutions. And what I believe is that in the end you heard and my message is not to make it easier for ministers, this law is being passed in order to do it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81766	I'm closing the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81767	Final proposal of the Rehabilitation Act after the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 674. The debate, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81768	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since the government has not sought to correct this law until this decision on this law has been made to its amendments I ask you to take a break on behalf of the club to agree on how we will vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81769	Maybe you've already agreed on the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81770	Thank you so much for speeding me up, we have an appointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81771	Yes, you do. Well, then, please state the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81772	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, simply on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, I am obliged to warn myself of certain matters since the government has neither implemented the procedure for the adoption of this law within itself. Because I'm sure no matter who was in the Ministry of Finance and who was headed by the Ministry of Finance that he couldn't sign a positive opinion on a bill like this that was in violation of the basic laws that the ministry passed and implemented. Therefore, above all, Article 4 which gives this law an opportunity to redistribute more than what is provided for by the State Budget Act. This law cannot be above the roof law. But those coworkers and colleagues, I'm not going to go into any details and I'm not going to bother you because I talked about it yesterday all day. The most controversial, which is legally, technically inconclusive, is Article 38, which is very short, and I will quote it "the grant funds will be provided in the state budget, i.e. through donations and other sources." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a provision that is not enforceable, it is not enforceable because of the law in the Republic of Croatia, but it is not enforceable because of the EU directive. For these two articles yesterday during the entire debate and in person and on behalf of the club, I suggested that this could be resolved by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for the simple reason that we have had something similar in recent years, especially this Article 38, where, in particular, you must specify how this release technique will be implemented, and since it is the revenues of the state budget, given that it is the conditions which the EU directive says cannot be so, then it can only be settled by the Law on the implementation of the state budget. The law that this House adopts always when voting the budget, a law that defines how budgets will be spent and how the state will be in charge of its own needs. By passing this law, we bring, in fact, the government only puts itself in a position not to know how this is going to go. And one more thing I want to warn about in this law, it cannot stand in this law that the legalisation funds will be used for this because neither is the legalisation law nor the state budget defined that these funds are intended. These funds are in the amount of 120 billion or what the revenues of the state budget are, in fact, already. They spend themselves like that. Will tomorrow's redistribution of funds be in place... Protection, construction, that position that so many and so many million go for it, that's another pair of shoes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't want to, like I said five, six days ago, politicize this agenda point. We will vote for this law, but as a serious party, we are simply obliged to warn the Government that a law that has not been passed under procedures, because for such a law every ministry must give its opinion, but I say no matter who is headed by the Ministry of Finance, no matter which policy options because of the profession and everything it cannot sign a positive opinion on such a law. So these are three things that you just have to warn yourself about. There are still a number of things that will create extremely technical problems for the government when implementing this law. But colleagues and colleagues I sincerely hope in the depths of my soul that all of us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, as the Croatian people have shown, is in the interest of helping people who have been killed. And that's why I really don't understand that the government doesn't want to do it, and I recommend to the government once again that until the next session, which is 2.7, it proposes amendments to the State Budget Act to fix what's practically irreparable here and that those people who have been killed are simply left without anything can help. Because if that doesn't happen, unfortunately, we open up all kinds of black holes for all kinds of marriquettes to those who don't belong where people need help. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81773	Thank you, too, dear colleague counsel Shucker. Given your legitimate, both business and legal warning to the government, we're in the middle of a bit of a schizophrenic situation, including your club. Now I'll tell you why. So, you're going to vote for the proposed law, so you announced, wait just to tell you, so you're just confirming your own justification for law-making, okay. So, you're self-confirming the justification of lawmaking, and of course in that variant that you're proposing can be harmonised by any other law, although it will be a post, post ok, and I'm stressing just what happened, I'm stressing just what happened. I'm going first in accordance with Article 193. I am giving the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion, for the feedback of Articles 40, 46, 50, 52 and 53 of this Law, there are also 53, 51, 52 and 53, there are particularly valid reasons for the return to action. I'd like to make a statement on these legitimate reasons. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 98 votes in favour and 18 abstentions have reached a conclusion on the feedback of those articles. Amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the special table has been allocated to MPs, please the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Zeljko Uhlir, Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning to show about the proposed amendments. Amendment number 1 of the respected representative Ivana Simunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81775	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81776	Explanation, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81777	For reasons that it is not acceptable because of the quality of viewing and reporting over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81778	Thank you very much. There are no applicants of the amendment. We will vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. Please plead. Who is the number 1 amendment of the respected representative, Ivan Simunovic, who is not accepted by the government? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81779	Amendment number 2 of MPs Ivan Šimunovic is also not accepted by reason because the importance of passing this law is precisely in the exceptions to regular procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81780	Thank you very much. There's no esteemed representative. Please, who is the number two amendment of MP Ivan Simunovic whom the government does not accept? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority, thank you very much. Amendment number 3 of the Croatian Parliament's HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81781	Amendment number three of the HNS Clubs is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81782	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 4 of the respected representative Ivana Simunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81783	Amendment No 4 Amendment number 4 of MPs by Ivan Šimunovic is not accepted because the law protects double charges by damage. [[Break the president: Increase your voice.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81784	Thank you very much. There are no applicants of the amendment. We need to make a statement. Who is the number four amendment of MP Ivana Simunovic whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the Croatian Parliament's HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81785	Amendment number 5 of the HNS Representatives Clubs is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81786	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 6 of MPs Ivana Simunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81787	Amendment number 6 of MPs to Šimunovic is not accepted because the reconstruction will be carried out in parallel, and with the addition of water structures, such distribution would be neglected because it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81788	Thank you very much. We must declare the amendment of the respected representative Ivana Simunovic, number 6 which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81789	The amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81790	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 8 of Honored Representative Nenad Stazic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81791	Amendment number 8 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81792	Thank you very much. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81793	Because the proposed change leaves out the concepts, owners and landowners, which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81794	Thank you very much. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: I withdraw the amendment.]] The amendment is withdrawn. Thank you very much. Amendment number 9 of Honored Representative Nenad Stazic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81795	Amendment 9 not accepted Because the replacement expression is correct, i.e. The proposed replacement was correct in the bill itself and does not need to be amended [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[Intruder Stazic: I withdraw the amendment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81796	The amendment is withdrawing. Thank you very much. Amendment number 10 of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81797	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81798	Is that okay? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Uhlir: Yes.]] It becomes an integral part of the final bill. So we exhausted the amendment list on the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 109 votes in favour and 1 abstentions, have been passed by the Law on the resolution of the consequences of the Vukovar-Srijem County disaster in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81799	Today we will discuss another item on the agenda, that is - Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency in 2013; Reporter is the Croatian Small Economy Agency based on Article 15. A law to encourage the development of a small economy. You've received the material. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you are, the esteemed president of the HAMAG administration, the esteemed Darko Liovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81800	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the report on the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment for 2013. If, therefore, several sentences should describe the work of the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency in 2013 would definitely be the following: strengthening the role of the agency, thus further strengthening the role of the agency in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, the start of cooperation with the International Financial Institutions and Associations where the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency has concluded joint projects and pandas with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and, in particular, what is important for us to the European Investment Fund. Furthermore, this is also a step in transparency in the work of the agency as well as the openness of the agency where all guarantees and all support therefore granted through the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency programme are transparently published on the website of HAMAG INVESTA, and are also presented in reports that are found or report that is in front of you. It was also the year 2013 of new innovative products and tools that we offered to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises. I will only mention the start of a pilot microcredit project for beginner entrepreneurs as well as the introduction of a new guarantee programme, so up to 18 million kuna to encourage the processing industry and tourism. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament therefore allow me only briefly to refer to these most important activities of HAMAG INVESTA in a few sentences and to brief you on the results achieved in 2013. The most important of course is the issue of guarantees and what I must therefore conclude in 2013 was the number of approved projects of 410, which means an increase of almost 70% compared to 2012 when HAMAG INVEST followed 243 projects in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector. As regards the value of guarantees issued in 2013, a total of 450, slightly more than 450 million kuna guarantees were granted, which is an increase of 315 million kuna from 2012. As regards the investments that accompanied the guarantees, this enabled over a billion and 400 million kuna investments in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, i.e. in 2013. Which is an increase of 920 million kuna in 2012. Our expected effects and monitoring of the impact of these measures through the guarantees issued is that in 2013, we supported the creation of new 1146 jobs. As regards therefore the most approved guarantees according to the profile of the guarantees themselves, what is particularly pleased is that the most guarantees and projects are granted in the category of new entrepreneurs, i.e. those companies or new companies that have just moved to the market, and therefore these companies are precisely and most in need of State aid when they enter the market. As for the growth programme, therefore, there was an increase in the guarantees issued. Thus, 105 projects were supported in 2013 and no guarantees issued under the liquidity programme, where 93 projects were approved. As regards banks, therefore, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of course as a development bank, is ahead of the number of guarantees issued. A total of 136 million kuna guarantees were granted for 101 projects, followed by Zagrebačka Banka, so 75 projects with 80 million kunas issued and Erste banka so with 56 million kunas issued guarantees, i.e. 53 supported projects. As far as bail is concerned, I must therefore conclude because of the crisis still on the Croatian market, especially in this sector that is reflected in both the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. I must therefore say that in 2013 we paid a little less than 23 million kuna from the Croatian budget on behalf of activated guarantees, which is therefore an increase of about 5 million kunas, so 17.3 million kuna was paid in 2012. According to the structure of banks, therefore the most paid to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is slightly less than 9 million kuna, followed by payment to the Croatian postal bank somewhere 3.9 million kuna and the Partner bank 2.4 million kuna. Otherwise, as regards the portfolio analysis itself, so on 31.12.2013 the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments is exposed to open guarantees somewhere, slightly more than €1 130 million, with the predecessors, the front of the guarantees issued in the City of Zagreb, some 153 million kuna, Osijek-Baranja County 115 million kuna and Split-Dalmatia County 84 million kuna. I believe that you will also be interested in the profile of the sector in which guarantees are issued. The most guarantees were issued for the agriculture sector, so 512 million kuna, followed by the processing industry 334 million kuna, the service sector 115 million kuna and tourism, so about 87 million kuna. It's about guarantees. So, as I have already mentioned, in 2014, a pilot project for microcredit of beginner entrepreneurs was launched where 2.1 million kuna was allocated from the budget last year. In total, 32 Start up projects were approved, with the conditions offered on the market, so far below those on the market, so we wanted to encourage beginners. The interest rate is 0.99%, with a payment deadline of 5 years and 6 months. As regards grants, i.e. support, the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment in 2013 implemented a programme of entrepreneurial impulses of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. So we were in charge of the B1 measure, with 72.2 million kuna being paid out of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. What I must say, therefore, is that the agreement of projects and the realisation of these projects, so 100%, and the entire amount foreseen in the budget is ultimately approved by entrepreneurs. In total, we received 416 requests for support through the business impulse and B1 measure, with 103 support of an average amount of 701 thousand kuna. The structure of the 72.2 million kuna sectors, therefore 91% was intended for the processing industry, and therefore, the metal industry, the production of machinery and the food industry, was three percent going towards the ET sector and 6% therefore for environmental protection. As for some of the expected effects of the support granted, we will be able to monitor it effectively from this year to next year, so in the coming years. But what the entrepreneurs reported, so through the notified projects and approved projects, is expected to open a new 1001 early place, increase income, total revenues, so all entrepreneurs by 14%, place new 83 products on the market, and increase exports have reported 82 entrepreneurs who received the grant support. There's also a project to co-finance consulting services. What we decided in 2013 is to focus on those consulting services that we consider to be a market deficit, i.e. there are deficit experts on the market that should therefore be encouraged to order entrepreneurs. So together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we implemented a project to encourage co-financing of consulting services in the field of energy efficiency and environmental protection. For this purpose from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, I was intended for 1.3 million kuna. So contracts and contracts paid off to entrepreneurs. The average level of support under the project was 54 thousand kuna. We also continued to control the dedicated spending of funds, so I have to say that we did field checks on the means of purpose and made returns on certain non-intentional identified expenditures. We've also been effective, we've been working on the efficiency of the collection at the activated guarantees. Here I must say that we have recorded some shifts in 2014 so where we have returned a total of 1.2 million kuna to the Republic of Croatia's budget on these two basiss, which is an increase compared to 2013 when it was returned to the budget of the Republic of Croatia slightly more than 770 thousand kuna. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these are, therefore, the short activities carried out by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. So, in 2014, as you know, I believe you know the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments has merged with the Business Innovation Agency of the Republic of Croatia, so BICRO. And I believe that this merger will enable us to monitor even better and more effectively the needs of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia in a way that we can offer state support programmes and projects for virtually all phases, the development phases of entrepreneurs and businesses, from that initial idea of research and development to practically restructuring. Just as I have pointed out, so we started with 1.1.2014 to implement a guarantee project to the beginners together in cooperation with the European Investment Fund. By signing cooperation with the European Investment Fund, we have made it easier to place funds to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as the European Investment Fund will counter-guarantee for the issued guarantees of the Croatian Small Economy and Investments Agency in 50%, which does not only mean that budget redundancies in the future on behalf of activated guarantees, potentially activated guarantees, but also means strengthening the reputation of the HAMAG INVEST guarantee and facilitating the placement of financial and credit resources to beginners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81801	Thank you. We have three replicas. First esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81802	Mr. Liovicu, I'm only interested in you after such a generous speech, do you know that HAMAG's 10th month guarantees... In 2010, they enter into an increase in the public debt of the Republic of Croatia, such as all funds that raise HBOR, such as all guarantees provided by the Republic of Croatia from the state budget and such as the Croatian highways and Croatian highways. So it is not at all disputed that entrepreneurs in the Republic should be helped, but you simply have to be aware, and in one part of the sentence you said it but unfortunately did not pay more attention to it, which is that each guaranteeing in such a crisis is a potential risk to the state budget. So I think it's purely out of the question that there's some kind of collegiate relationship with fellow Members of the Parliament that needs to be pointed out. It's nice to hear a billion and so much has been given to entrepreneurs, but in these times of crisis, when unfortunately more of them fail than it opens up and those who have received the guarantee and state aid unfortunately run into an obstacle and fall and cannot repay that credit are a potential danger to the state budget. So if we're talking about nice things we should also... HAMAG INVEST to work counter-states and counter-state budgets, however, you are one instrument of economic policy to fill the state budget tomorrow through those who will create new jobs. But that's why when you talk about these things then the report has to stand this finding because if this finding doesn't stand, then the whole story is incomplete. Because every risk as high as possible offers a greater risk of the state budget running out of one piece of money. So I've read this report of yours you've devoted very, very little attention to it, although some things are what they are, but I think it would be good if you mentioned this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81803	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Darko Liovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81804	I thank Mr. Shuker for this observation. So we're absolutely aware of that, but I think first of all the Ministry of Finance must be aware of this situation. So as you know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings the upper limit that the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments can be exposed. The limit is 2 billion kuna, so this is the maximum amount of guarantees the Croatian agency almost has to issue. We are currently at 1.1 billion kuna exposure, so until we reach that limit, and we do not consider it necessary to increase that limit, so there is no need to react to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the risk is concerned, of course, there's always what you said when you issue the guarantee there's always a risk that this guarantee will one day be activated and the claims won't be able to be charged, so it's a fact and it can't be helped. However, what is our urgency with one risk evaluation policy is to accept the risk that is acceptable, or in those situations where we estimate that the benefits for the Republic of Croatia's budget will be greater than the potential risk for the activation of the guarantee itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81805	Thank you. Second replica, the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81806	Thank you very much. Mr Liovicu, one such report should be based on financial terminology and economic categories. But if we take only one paragraph on the 40th page under point 8.1, we'll see that you don't use economic terminology or understand economic categories enough. Namely, on the basis of the guarantees paid in 2013 it was charged in total, guarantees cannot be paid. You write on the basis of paid, guarantees are protested, guarantees are given, but guarantees are not paid. You're saying that you're out of the total support paid that's been paid, the support paid can't be charged just can't be paid back. You don't need to nod, it's termology, but I'm allowing... the experience to be insufficiently familiar with economic terminology. When you talk about the list of entrepreneurs in the conclusion on page 48, which has been issued a guarantee where the head office is listed, the name of the company, the activity of the investor, the amount of the guarantee was to be added, and to whom the guarantee has been protested and for which guarantees have been charged, this is missing, the main information is missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81807	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Darko Liovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81808	I thank you for the replica. So I'm familiar with this termology, but the moment HAMAG INVEST pays off, or protestes the guarantee, there's a claim. So here we're talking about the collection of claims. I'd stay consistent with what's in this report. So the claims come and charge themselves, and the other thing is protesting. So what you said is one phase before what this report says, that's about it. As far as this section is concerned about the protested guarantees that have been paid, I must warn you that it's very nice to write just to find the site, so you have a list of all those guarantees from which the RS budget has been paid. You will find this list there, it is listed which entrepreneurs are concerned and what I must warn that all the guarantees paid for the guarantees issued are until 1.1.2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81809	Third and last replica, the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81810	Thank you. Mr. Liovicu, this report of yours is correct from the point of view of our club and we will support it. But what I'm saying is, I'd look back on just one part of your job, and that's the entrepreneurial impulse and politics to grant grants. We have certain experiences here that say that the whole procedure is too bureaucratic or that in some things we have strayed from the essence and that we are slaved to form. So, because someone didn't fill out a form in the way they should have, a pattern like it was supposed to, or because we didn't define what a free profession meant, we didn't publicly say what a free profession was and we didn't say in the invitation that free professions couldn't compete, we reject a good entrepreneurial idea that opens up two new jobs. And so that's the only reason. A similar situation is happening with support for new technologies, the truth does not go through HAMG INVEST but we need to know that the Ministry of Small Entrepreneurship has come into a situation that rejects large entrepreneurial ideas because five days before the competition... Changed the pattern. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And unless you signed a new form of a joint statement, the whole entrepreneurial idea of a few million kunas falls into the water. Foreign investor opening 10 jobs, dropping because we didn't sign the new form, but the old one. And the new form is otherwise completely empty because the statement about the joint, the joint statement is empty, the related statement. Therefore, experiences say that the European Union does not do so, it selects entrepreneurial ideas and then starts with entrepreneurial ideas towards administration. We do the opposite, we bring people into unnecessary costs because all of what they're doing in the preparation of the project is costing a lot of money and we reject them because of some kind of administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81811	In reply, the respected Darko Lijovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81812	Thank you, Mr. Horvat. So I assume that you refer to the implementation of the entrepreneurial impulse, so for 2014. I must therefore say that in the implementation of the entrepreneurial impulse in 2014 despite the fact that this is not the subject of the debate, HAMAG INVEST participates in the most important measures, so these are A1 and B1 measures. And I agree with you, therefore, that the percentage of the rejected projects in the administrative check is really too high. So he has reached almost 50% of all projects that have arrived. And what we must definitely do as the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments in the years to come, as well as the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, must therefore invest more in the education of entrepreneurs and not only entrepreneurs, so obviously there is a need to educate and consultants in a particular segment so that these applications are in some way met according to all those standards that are required. As for this part, therefore, in the matter of rejection of the administrative check, the public call was published for a month and a half, together with a checklist of all that the entrepreneur had to report, which documentation should therefore be collected. And we believe that there has been enough time, so a month and a half of days since the announcement of the tender, so until the end or the beginning of the collection of the application, so that all those entrepreneurs in the best possible way are actually preparing themselves and registering their projects. Since we left so much time simply because of the equality of treatment towards all entrepreneurs we had to go in this way so that all those who did not meet even these administrative conditions simply at that first stage... They will be rejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this does not mean that these entrepreneurs cannot apply for any other incentive measures, so we are not talking about grants there are both guarantees and microcredits, therefore, and some other measures where, of course, we will help the entrepreneur and in some way suggest what is needed to be complemented in the documentation and in which way he can round up his entire financial structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81813	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club will speak to the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81814	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, HAMAG Management President, Mr Lijovic and MPs and MPs. I would say as far as this report itself is concerned so that it is relatively correct, well drawn, relatively transparent, correctly written, perhaps in some elements, as regards the report itself, perhaps even a little more detailed, but the overall report actually reads a little bit about the work of HAMAG INVEST in 2013. At the very beginning of this, let's say the court of law on either the assessment or the assessment that HAMAG INVEST has supported 1.6 or 1.6 billion kuna programmes somewhere and thus allowed over 1600 new jobs to be opened. Such an assessment may need to be better supported at that time because this assessment is not quantified, at least not from these data which are visible in the report. Therefore, how did this assessment occur or perhaps only the value of the amount of investments in which HAMAG took part in one or more of those whether through guarantees or through support? In the case of approved guarantees, so these 410 guarantees totalling 450 million kuna, I would say, given that the county data is listed, given that the agency is working as well, I would mention that, and so similar to other programmes, there is no attempt by the Agency to support regional policy or regional development at all. So there is no attempt to, for example, be it in a way that so much towards the county goes in some proportions of support or programs in the county where I live, 10 million kunas of 450 million kuna guarantees are granted. Or, for example, when it comes to grants in the county where I live, they're 0, so none of them are approved. So an example of Požega-Slavon County. However, even when looking at the scales of other counties, the overall agency obviously did not take care of the regional element at all. So that element obviously doesn't represent you, or I guess at least it's not a criterion. A suggestion would be to try and think about it. Of course, there's nothing you can do that's uncompetitive just because it comes from a county. But it's also strange that in some programmes several counties do not have a single entrepreneurial initiative that can pass in some support, subsidies or guarantees, and we have such examples of several counties in different programmes. When it comes to these guarantees or, say, these few examples of the biggest guarantees allocated in 2013, we see the largest, one of the largest is AMIS Telekom 7.5 million kuna. Ten million kuna perfa was, I think it's manufacturing, laundry, egg production. You should see what the company's balance sheets are like, I hope they're good. Some of the indicators weren't so good. There's Bio-El, it's a biomass power plant. There's some hotel companies, some O.P.G. Anyway, there's a little bit of it. What's the effect, what happens next? I see even some specialist offices also with amounts of about a million kuna state subsidies. But why not if they're O.P.G.s. What are the effects of this, how much of it eventually comes out, how much of it comes back that actually the state has to pay off these guarantees. What my colleague said earlier, a lot of the dung was actually put out, regardless of whether the methodology was accurate or not. We have each other, and you said that you've brought together another agency, we have, for example, the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness. The agency does not report to the Croatian Parliament, AIK if I am not mistaken. So when it was established already under the statutes, it is foreseen that the agency is not speaking to the Croatian Parliament at all. This agency shall submit a report. There's a lot of inequality here. What we can really be concerned about together is, as successful or unsuccessful as the agencies are, we can determine that economic policy is a failure, and then in that case you're in a rather stealthy position because you can be the most successful in running an agency if the overall economic impact is debacle. And that puts you as the person who runs that agency in a rather unpredictable position, and we can't praise the agency's work if economic policy has trends and I don't even list who they are, but we all know that's the case. The colleague mentioned the problem of red tape before, and that is not the problem that only his colleague mentioned and who addressed us to the club, but it is indeed one problem of Croatia's incompetence in which both the state administration and the state administration were recognised and, of course, the agencies that actually function in a way that is most important for us to meet formal preconditions, administrative preconditions. Well, you yourself, in fact, in your answer in some way in the previous replica, have actually put yourself in a position to be first formal-legal, and then we will be content, so if it's not formally satisfied with the content at all, we won't even pay any more attention, which is the way our entire state administration actually works, but I think we can all agree more or less that this is the way our state administration, our state administration, our public administration and our state agencies actually brought us to this low-level branch that we're on today. So my recommendation would, in fact, be to you, of course, try to think about how much of your agency exists in this time and how much longer it will exist in this form, to try to actually change and that at least someone in this country actually tries to give an example of how it works and how it actually doesn't come down to just a list of forms that someone needs to submit, and where then the entrepreneurial idea will actually be the last element of the evaluation, not the first element. We have in countless cases actually this situation that doesn't matter what the content is but what is the form, and the content will come to us at the very end of our judgments. Instead of looking at the contents first, and we'll be able to solve the form easily, so we'll fill it out. No, we'll solve the form, and what's left of what's formally satisfying us then we'll just look at the content of it. It actually made me more aware of your response to the previous replica, and of course it is. But here's a well-intentioned advice to try to think about actually being attitudes or attitudes, you start your attitude towards an entrepreneurial initiative in one other direction, in a direction that this country hasn't actually seen since its design, and maybe it sees at some point, or at some point, that we first recognize the quality and content of something, and then we solve those patterns that we're missing about it or that we should add to it. Because if we lack anything in Croatian society, I guess that's what we're pretty sure of is that we're actually an entrepreneurial non-initiative society, that we don't actually have enough individuals, that we don't have that social support. And then if we're still like institutions and institutions doing it all the way we're doing it today, then we're actually going to finally meet at this point that we're on today. Here I hope next year or maybe in the year that we won't even talk about the Ministry's Report, entrepreneurship and the small economy, that it won't even be there anymore, that this agency will also be in a completely different form, if there is any social change that we all hope for this year or at the latest next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81815	Thank you. The replica stands for Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81816	Here's a thank you. So you're... talk about the work of this agency in the context of the overall economic situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said of course you couldn't even talk positively about the work of this agency, because when you look at the whole economic situation. But, of course, this agency applies, so to fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and in the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Sector, thank God we note certain positive shifts. So in the last two, two and a half years, 12,000 new jobs have been opened in this sector. In this sector, we are recording some growth in employment. So, of course there were layoffs at the time, but it was generated, so 12,000 new jobs in the Sector of Medium and Small Entrepreneurship. I believe and I am sure and can also be seen through, therefore, the expected effects and analysis of the current effects that this agency's work has certainly contributed both through lending and through guarantees and through these measures that have been taken in part, to a large part of the opening of these new jobs in this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81817	The replica corresponds to the respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81818	Yes, my colleague, here is God's blessing on your optimism. Not if it were 12, but if 212000 jobs were newly opened, we'd all be happy and happy. And I'm glad you're such an optimist. I didn't really mean to criticize at all, so I didn't criticize the agency's work. However, all of us, in fact, are not all citizens, very difficult to evaluate through our individual work, but through the actual efficiency of the state and the entire system they are facing. So no one sees how many of you colleagues or I work in the office while we're sitting down, they just see the overall result of the functioning of these institutions and whether it's better or worse for them. In the same way, citizens evaluate the work of the Croatian Parliament and see how they judge us. We are assessed for the gravity of the economic situation, not for whether you or I will be more or less good at discussing this agenda point. It's similar with the work of this agency. Perhaps the competent minister can assess the quality of the work of the agency itself, therefore, by following the president of the administration. But we can actually have a perception of the agency's work in the first place actually through economic results, and the economic results are gone. There is none and no one but you has seen that there are unfortunately economic results in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81819	On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Đuro Popiac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a report from HAMAG Invest for 2013 and I would agree with my previous colleague that it is extremely difficult to talk about this report, rather than conclude in what economic circumstances the overall situation of the Croatian economy and society as a whole is. And the fact is, it's really very neat here, I would say all the fact that this agency has been doing in the past year. But what would you say is "insane effort for your players". So there are no results in both medium and small entrepreneurship, or large entrepreneurship, or, unfortunately, anything. So we're witnessing a situation where here are 13 quarters in a row of gross social product declines. This means that tens of thousands of real sector jobs are shut down. The GDP mostly falls due to the catastrophic state of the real sector, not the state. No job has been lost in the country, reportedly by several thousand and increased. The largest number of missing jobs is in secondary and small entrepreneurship. I really don't know where you managed to find the data and how you managed to list 12,000 new jobs in the real sector, and over 50,000 jobs were lost right in middle and small entrepreneurship. Therefore, the relatively great effort of people working in HAMAG Invest with the results of what they are in the whole context of the economic picture and everything this government has done in a negative way towards the economy is actually giving one opportunity to consider the work of HAMAG INVEST itself negative because everyone in this system is responsible for this situation. And all agencies and all institutions, all ministries. And you can't have some ministry or some agency detached from this one general catastrophic work of this government. In the introduction, he spoke about what everything in 2013 was or was trying to be, so he said there was a further strengthening of the role. We do not see exactly what segment this role is significantly strengthened, i.e. in which segment and the increased results, or the effects of that role, are in relation to the situation of the whole economy. He mentioned transparency. In all ministries and in all those who made up part of the overall support infrastructure in the country, information was always published on guarantees issued and on the aid granted. So it's nothing new, it's done before. The technology may have improved, but here's the technology going forward. New products and tools, this banking termology has been taken over and, again, with the products and tools produced in the past time, the result is of course obvious. The guarantees, counterpart Shuker has already mentioned, are quite obvious and clear that HAMAG guarantees have become extremely attractive and acceptable because the amendment of the HAMAG Act has made them the first order of payments by credit institutions. Of course, like any state guarantee issued for both Croatian roads and railways and for shipbuilding and for all here there is no difference. With these guarantees heading towards the private sector here while guarantees have always been issued, of course, by public companies or the state sector. Before 2012 the guarantees were not in the first order of payments but were issued in a limited form and volume. So here we have today about 23 million kunas of protested guarantees, and these are all the guarantees that are listed here in the report published and protested since 2002 and practically until 2011. How many of these protested guarantees will be after this explosion, we'll see about that. Therefore, the public debt only based on guarantees in the last year 2013 was increased by 450 million kuna if I am right. So, out of the total of a billion and 200 million as the guarantees issued over the past two years have been said to me, 700 million kuna has increased that public debt. It could be the risk of the state, if that's what the state can afford. So when it's said that the guarantee potential is 2 billion kuna, it wouldn't exactly mean going with such risks that all 2 billion kunas are being protested today or tomorrow and falling on the burden of the state budget. Of course, we understand the desire to get into this kind of activity, so that HAMAG's guarantees become primarily collection but then maybe it should be even more careful and maybe we should have and agree with this colleague who spoke before me so that he has some kind of character to stimulate certain branches, certain regions, certain sectors of industry or what we are already directing economic strategies. So, since we don't have them, then it's welcome that anyone who applies to this guarantee is welcome, so we're going to do it because it's not a job of course Hamag to evaluate strategies, to stimulate them, or to kind of extend them in all of this which was intended to do it here rather than to guarantee that whoever already has certain criteria meets these or such criteria. And when you look at it here and really in the analysis itself and here in the review, what branches are most represented is that it's agriculture. On the one hand, we are happy that, of course, something is happening in agriculture. On the other hand, who runs any sectoral strategy? Is that HAMAG, is it the Ministry of Medium and Small Entrepreneurship or is it the Ministry of Agriculture? Who, now what was the whole point of this sum of 500 and something or how many here 380 actually in 2013 guarantees in agriculture different? Since I know a good part of these producers here, they're listed there's a lot of things. So, from Baranja and the orchard to the vineyards or I don't know what, I don't know now details of what is actually being invested in these loans for which guarantees have been issued, what has been strategically potentiated, what has been stimulated and what is the expected result in the end? So, it's not the same if livestock production or if vineyarding or something is really missing here if state guarantees are issued so openly, then they have to have some kind of mechanism or purpose for sectoral strategies that are clearly missing both in agriculture and in everything. Furthermore, of these grants, so what was announced a year or two ago will reduce the number of those who will receive support. This is now reduced dramatically, therefore, and we see that because of the experiences that entrepreneurs have had in the past year, the number of those seeking support is significantly reduced. I think 400 entrepreneurs were looking for support in HAMAG. Over the past year, they've only gotten them around 103. However, if this was also the intention to target funds towards certain sectors, according to certain economic units, according to certain regions, that would be understandable. But there's nothing here. Maybe some people don't belong here in this list. Supports are extremely high, according to us for a level of medium and small entrepreneurship, so at an average of 700 thousand kuna, although there is a significant increase, so up to a million and a half kuna. Similarly, as regards the guarantee, there are up to 6, 7 or 8 million kunas of guarantees issued for certain business entities. By what criteria, which is a guide to those who have chosen and determined that a particular business entity will receive this or that amount of support, we will now not judge and politicise, but perhaps, given this list that is here and presented, there is something to talk about. But we don't want to put in an awkward and delicate position the very same business entities who have received and supported them, let them, let them do, let them work, let them live, but about transparency, about some completely different relationship with guarantees, according to the support I wouldn't be throwing myself away so much because I could really talk to this whole thing differently, but here's the correctness of business entities that I wouldn't really be here. All in all, therefore, a report technically corrected, but like everything that came from this government, the effect itself is very small. So we're talking about a thousand, two employees, expected new employees of everything that was said here, and it's going to come out as an effect of guarantees and support. The second question is what damage is done, for example, if 7 billion kunas that could have been withdrawn from EU funds and put out jobs for the economy, or how many jobs have been ruined by pre-profit deals because small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the last in the chain. So, if even exactly 12,000 jobs have been newly opened, how many tens of thousands of jobs have been destroyed by pre-price settlements that have just gone to harm and to expense, and to the disaster of medium and small entrepreneurs. Not to mention a number of other harmful decisions, the law or generally when we speak economic, economic policies that have been implemented or unfortunately not implemented in terms of reforms this 2.5 year. That's why we won't accept this report, and here I call for this agony to end as soon as possible and that neither this ministry nor this Hamag next year are watching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81821	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81822	Here, thank you. Dear colleague, you called me in your speech, i.e. You asked where I got this information from about 12,000 new employees in this small and medium-sized enterprise. So I would tell you, here from the study of the Centre for Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Technological Development there are the data to say from 2011 to 2012, the number of employees in the sector increased from 546 308 to 556 621. The data from the Croatian Statistics Institute and certain other publicly available data show that in this year there are about 2,000 more, this positive balance sheet in this sector, I am talking about the sector of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Here, I'm surprised that as an economic expert you don't handle better than I do with these sources. Well, since you asked, you might as well check, that's your specifics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81823	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81824	Well, thank you very much. Here, if that's how I congratulate her, so be it. It made sense, but I repeat what would have happened then if we had withdrawn 7 billion kuna from EU funds. It could be this 200 or 120 grand or 220 grand. To this we insist that you have failed to do anything here, that you have ruined the second year of EU membership and that this is much more economic damage than here is what benefits so the relatively great efforts of these people sitting in these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81825	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81826	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Popioč, it is unquestionable, we are talking about 13 quarters of GDP decline, but you are constantly talking about the disastrous work of this government, and I am going to tell you that the GDP decline in these 13 quarters is the result of your government's work. And according to that old saying, "What one bad thing does, 100 smart people can't solve it." And that's what's happening to us right now. With all the moves this government is trying to resolve your disastrous work right now. And the results are slow, but they're visible, and they'll be seen until the end. You can talk about this government's poor work, but what this government is doing is correcting your mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81827	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81828	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I don't know what time you're talking about the disastrous work of former governments. So I was personally a minister for two years. Let's say before the election, how many four quarters plus two, six, let's say eight. Of those 8, 2 quarters, the last one started economic growth if I was talking about my personal life by acting as Prime Minister in the world's worst economic crisis since I was 26. And as for the former governments before the crisis, the average growth rate at the annual GDP level was about 4.6%, if I remember correctly. For a long time, more water will flow away from Sava when, after your government, not only will there be growth from or positive zero what your vice president wants, and where it is 4.6 or 5 or I don't know 5.6% in the best years. When are we gonna get to that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81829	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81830	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Drinker, you have presented one thesis that I cannot quite agree with, that this report is technically made. So look at the title, what do you notice? Annual report 2013, and at least it should be the Annual Report for 2013 on... when you are talking about technical on page 6, the introductory word of the administration, and it is as if it were the newsletter of the airline where on the other page we have a picture of the president of the administration who wants to welcome passengers and talks about the characteristics and business results of the airline. And then you have an introduction. Why don't you tell me another report coming to the Parliament where the opening word of the administration is, when you're already talking about technical perfection in this...? But let's just say there's no total income and unpaid claims, not just for 2013 in total, what's HAMAG. So there's a question of the vindicability of HAMAG at all. If we have guarantees that 50% of HBOR is then the Fund for Development and Employment, then we best set up another agency to guarantee HAMAG to support the grants. What is the point of giving the state institution a guarantee? It doesn't make sense. There's only one agency left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81831	You've got a problem right now because your club doesn't agree with you, so answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81832	Thank you very much. I appreciate your detailed view of content, but I'm an engineer mostly, so I'm looking at it a little differently than you're looking at as a doctor of the economy and as an analyst, so I may not read with the same eyes as you read, but you're right there. So here's the form itself and everything you see as a big feller or a problem of the character of the report itself, I don't doubt that's probably what keeps the water that you're saying. But that's what I've been thinking about a series of figures about what people have been doing, and here I'm reading in that context whether it's left or right-hand, whether it's economic, you're much more professional. But the bottom line, therefore, is that the effect generally won on the Croatian economy and what makes all the expensive sense, whether the report was like that or not, and that is the essence of the story. So neither this agency nor all the support that came from the state budget to economic operators unfortunately could eliminate all the negatives that this government's economic policy has done to those economies and that's why I told you... in HAMAG's vain effort because everything else in the government itself is deeply wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81833	On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Stranke work colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81834	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Board of Directors with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. So I'm not going to fall into this trap that's now set to say that the report is technically well done, if anything else I can at least avoid one replica. But what I noticed when I started reading is, one of my colleagues mentioned this 1600 jobs or the possibility of opening over 1600 jobs. It doesn't stand anywhere whether that possibility was used, not used or left a dead letter on paper. Well, I believe most of it is, but the wording is rather vague. No one can certainly ask the management of HAMAG to be responsible for the state of the economy, to say that there is now something excessive or that I don't know, guilty of such a situation as with our economy, but we can do what is safe for all of us, there is not much here, but otherwise that we are all there is certainly in the interest that our entrepreneurs withdraw our Croatia to normally say that this is the biggest engine the only way to get out of the crisis. And now that we all have more or less a mouthful of good wishes for these entrepreneurs, I'm going to take this opportunity to get to know the rest of the letter, but it's actually about the mail that you got, two ministers got it. Mail was sent to you by one of the entrepreneurs who ran to send us a project for the entrepreneurial impulse in 2014 and as it then states here and of course received a refusal. The reason for the failure to comply with the joint MPO14 declaration. The failure is that in the table view is the lean part... on partner and related entities and since it is the sole and 100% owner, it now cites a quote from which we provide information on partner and related entities as follows normally that it did not meet because it has no partner and connected entities because it is the sole and 100% owner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total value of its project was around 210 thousand kuna without VAT, exclusively for machines and web site. The incentive would amount to around 158,000 kuna while it would finance slightly more than 52,000 kuna of the project and 52,000 kuna of VAT. Which means a total of 105 thousand kuna which is certainly not a very negligible cost for small entrepreneurs in Croatia. I think it's a big money that was willing to invest in modernising production because our machines are back in the 1950s and their competitiveness is very bad. I note that this is a production activity. He also knows that they expanded their activity last year and invested in a metal recycling plant. The test drive and the additional electricity from HEP 20 thousand kuna, the construction of the elaborate 10 thousand kunas, etc., all together something over 100,000 kuna, seems to be in vain now. He asks himself if it's simply a question he's not sure whether to move on or not when for investment and development obviously there's no hearing. The same question arises: Is it possible that the only solution is to leave the country and go outside to raise your hands from it all? I'm not sure if this is from the same person but the other one is the email, I just see that a lot of things are similar and overlapping. But a question from small entrepreneurs, do you consider encouraging an entrepreneur to buy additional kilowatts of electricity from HEP if 20 thousand kunas have to be allocated for this, even though you own an electricity connection and an industrial installation. Now I really don't understand if it's really an incentive if you have to pay 20 grand to HEP and basically for nothing at all, at least from this it turns out for nothing. Well, literally, this turns out for nothing. Do you consider it an incentive for a small entrepreneur to pay 10 thousand kuna for the construction of an encampment on accommodation, i.e. location and use of non-hazardous waste, because the ministry requires complex elaborate regardless of the size of the business entity and the capacity? Well, I'm sure it's not an incentive if someone... I think my colleague Horvat said that at first if... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these huge bureaucratic obstacles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in this case, these bureaucratic obstacles cost everything. Because this is just this tax-listing thing that's all numbers 10, 20 thousand kunas, and eventually, summed up to over 100 thousand kunas. I know that this part of you as management president cannot be affected but I think the complete entrepreneurial climate in Croatia is anything but what should be encouraged by the state. I think that with just such nice words we declare that we support these entrepreneurs and basically red tape, after all, government not to say at every step of the ground, I'm not going to say... but additional obstacles to these entrepreneurs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And instead of opening up new jobs, I'm afraid we're witnesses, regardless of what my colleague was extremely optimistic about some things, I'm afraid that if we keep going on like this, it's a black perspective for this group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81835	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81836	Comrade Novak, you said you wouldn't fall into a trap but you did when you mentioned how entrepreneurs were disabled at every step of the business activity. Well, the state also imposes what it should and what it shouldn't. Many are told that they must have audits and that audit does not guarantee anything or corresponds to anything. That they have to publish financial reports publicly in the FINA and therefore they have to pay what they have to publish in the 230 kuna report, I think for every entrepreneur. If the connection is to be used, the connection must be paid in force. So who's in the best interest of this country that someone doesn't work? If they're going to charge him with that kind of power compensation, then how is it going to work? So he's been told in advance that he's not welcome with his activities. The truth is that small and medium - sized entrepreneurs are helped in many ways and in many small ways. And then one procedure comes and it's destroyed to the end. Most small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have been disabled through pre-fashion settlements. A short time ago, my colleague Popijac said that a great number of debts were fired through the pre-price settlements, how many jobs were saved, and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs here are said to have saved a thousand and one place and 40 thousand were destroyed through pre-profit deals, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And then when we read this report, the director of the agency should not be baptized as we speak, but we should be baptized as we read this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81837	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81838	Thank you very much. Well, you spoke to your colleague about some of the aids that the state is going towards small businesses. But I don't know if it makes sense to list all these details that one entrepreneur listed what she was meeting, what they were all about. And not to say that there is, and the fact here is that, I believe in what is written, I can't now check her allegations, let's say the information that they're asking for from the ministry, which from other institutions gets on the hood and essentially comes down to whether you have someone to recommend you who will give you accurate and correct information or you'll get a response that is negative, which is purely without further explanation or you'll get half-information and then you'll keep trying as you know and what way you know to get the right answer. But I also ask the question why public tenders are at least unfair, why is it allowed to specify the product that is sought by the competition in detail. So you don't have two of the same products, so let's say that they are so detailed, and there are only two on the market, that there's no way you can make a mistake and take the other one because in the competition the malt doesn't color screws is highlighted. It can go so far that even that is stated. I think they're really right to warn that this is not exactly a proper relationship to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81839	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81840	Yeah, you mentioned how the state makes it harder actually, but the state, I'm going to paraphrasise, it's the state, it's us. I have felt so many times in these 2.5 years, and from the legal solutions that we have made because we forget, in fact, that by hypertrophy, making it difficult and... the legislation of various areas is actually making life difficult for both Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs, but often the debate goes in the direction that it is not actually noticeable. We had a recent Labour Protection Act, I think we've made it difficult for employers to work. Recently, when the state introduces parafiscal burdens from several kunas per cubic cubicity of water, it makes business conditions difficult. When she collects the price of gas, of course she's made it difficult. In this term, we have passed 10 laws which, in fact, the Law on the electricity market, the Law on the market for hydrocarbons, the Gas Act, were countless of these laws where we were actually still in this mandate, and we have made it difficult, and we have not actually facilitated the conditions on the market, the conditions of business and no changes if you want and labour legislation where we do not want to change anything. Of course we don't agree on that. We're also making it more difficult and then we're joined by state agencies and public administrations and state authorities and competent offices and all together who are going to fight how we're going to choke, shut down and stop this little bit of production that's in this country at all and there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81841	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81842	Thank you. Well, I'll agree with most of what you said. It's really true that sometimes we get out of here with a sense of bitterness. No matter how hard we try, we all pass these laws and we can't be filled with ash, but if we at least point to what people in practice say. People who live this all point to these problems that at least help them with this, yet there are small things that are small shifts, and they would be greatly relieved in their lives and work. Normally, I can't agree to this on labour legislation, but I suppose given the experience we have that while the World Cup is going on in football, while the eyes of the public are directed towards Brazil that we will probably get the final version of the Labour Act in the process, and then you will be able to support these amendments to the Labour Act, which we in the Croatian Labour Party claim to be the final destruction of employment and trade union scene in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81843	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81844	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Director of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments. So this report for 2013 I would say, however, that it is very well structured. It's narrow enough and it's drinking enough, but I think it's precise enough to give sufficient insight into all the activities and measures the agency has taken to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises. The measures he's taken, so HAMAG INVEST are structured here precisely and transparently in six chapters, so let's start in order. Guarantees, therefore, support for the launch of new entrepreneurship projects are, as is evident from this report, significantly increased compared to previous years. From 2011 to the end of 2013, almost 300% of growth was observed here. Recognize therefore means investments... innovations to this extent and guarantee increased from 50 to 70% of the principal loan, facilitated IT financing of innovative solutions, wages. I would particularly point out that as a good measure, the salaries of engineers working on the development of innovation are treated as... in long-term assets. It's one of these really new solutions that's basically real because what no hau is also property and it's long lasting. And that's what needs to be encouraged in any case and I say hello on behalf of the SDP club that's been recognized here. New EU guarantee programmes need to be highlighted, starting and growing together. I must also express my satisfaction that the need to help beginners is recognised, to prepare for the EU market here, whose member we have been for almost a year. Many entrepreneurs in particular seem not well prepared enough to take advantage of all the benefits of this large market, but also to face far more severe and better competition than it was on this smaller closed market. There is no need to follow entrepreneurs here who, therefore, have crossed that start up phase, and therefore follow with this program we grow together. When I'm talking about specific numbers here, I need to definitely highlight the number of 619 guaranteed requests received in relation to, so at 359 in the previous year. And this program, the new entrepreneurs, therefore, exceeds a third of the total requirements. So the purpose for me is primarily this agency should be and it works so that these new entrepreneurs who are moving, so in the world of business, to provide them with the concrete, primarily financial assistance. So, make it easier for them to reach the funds. Of course, they need help most. They have perspective programmes, but insufficient resources and we express at the SDP club the satisfaction that, therefore, the fact that they need the help most recognized through these measures provided by the Agency. A significant increase in the number of requests received from most business banks is also observed, which means that the agency is recognised as a reliable and desirable partner to business banks in encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises. Until a few years ago, I didn't think it was the case. As regards the approved guarantees, 410. I also point out this as a major shift compared to 243 in 2012. The guarantees itself grew from 161 to 384. Therefore, significant growth is recorded in all segments to this extent. As far as paying off by the guarantees is concerned, I'd say moderate after all, and they've been paid in 32 cases. In this respect, we therefore welcome the transparency of this report, where the list of business entities under which guarantees were paid in 2013. As a new very good measure, we would point out, therefore, the micro-credit measure as the most favourable credit for micro-entrepreneurs. I'd say that's exactly the biggest problem for small entrepreneurs, especially those who are just beginning with business activity, so the availability of money. You have a good idea, you have the will, you have the knowledge. The clear problem is always the problem of starting assets. You're young, you have no place to take them from. This micro-credit program jumps into it in a quality and good way. We find that as a pilot, the project has proved to be good. Here and we encourage its wider application. You can tell there's an interest. That the program is good speech and 220 requests, although it is only a pilot project. The strategic action of this agency is therefore a programme of grants. He's known more as the Entrepreneurial Impulse. I think that the programme and the measure are the most presented both through the media and through the media activities of the agency, through therefore various stands and counselling. Here I must also commend the agency that it maintained both the stands and knew with its measures entrepreneurs and on the ground. And so this measure has always taken a kind of central place. This measure is defined through three main areas – economic recovery and development of entrepreneurship, technological development, strengthening competitiveness, and regional development and the use of EU funds. I would say that, through the definitions of these areas, they are well-recognizable strategic directions that should also be taken in the area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I would also, therefore, commend the transparency of which, therefore, the entrepreneurs have exercised the right to apply the measures laid down in this programme. We also find good that the expected effects of the implementation of the activities are also listed in the report, so that we can also valorise them later and see how they are, whether these concrete effects have been achieved, or whether we can valorise the work of the agency in the next period. From further measures, as follows, the report sets out projects of advisory infrastructure support where a prominent pilot project to encourage energy efficiency should certainly be highlighted. So 23 measures for 23 entrepreneurial projects have been allocated here. We certainly welcome that the need to boost energy efficiency is recognised here. Croatia is a natural importer of energy. We're one of the biggest electricity importers and all the other power plants. Certainly, energy efficiency-enhancing programmes can have a significant impact not only on the efficiency of entrepreneurs but also on the economy as a whole through, thus reducing the net of our import and export balances. Because I say Croatia is a large, large importer of energy and certainly in this area not only in the segment of small and medium-sized enterprises should pay much more attention than so far. It's been recognized here. We encourage further growth and development in this area. A prominent project of a network of student entrepreneurial incubators, one of the main problems I would say to Croatian entrepreneurship is that we are still part of our consciousness living in some perhaps past times and that this entrepreneurial thinking, the entrepreneurial spirit is not sufficiently developed. This is, of course, another problem, it's also the problem of our school system and generally the entrepreneurial climate in society. But it's certainly interesting this project... Incubator involving 32 high school institutions and I think it represents one of the steps in the right direction to therefore develop this entrepreneurial spirit of those who are essentially the most needed, who should be the future bearers of our entrepreneurial development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So for young people who are educated in the area of economy, economy and other areas that are important for the development of entrepreneurship and economy. In the field of EU funds which are also not negligible, the report also lists an operational programme for regional competitiveness. I am particularly emphasising this programme of promotion and provision of advisory services to small and medium-sized enterprises. So where 160 selected entities of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship were included in that measure. It therefore started in July 2013 when we therefore joined the EU. In particular, it seems to me that there is a need for our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as part of an economy that may not have enough knowledge to be included in, therefore, programmes that would allow EU funds to be received. They're big in a much more favourable position because I say I can hire professionals in a better way, I can even hire them, small entrepreneurs can't do that. I think it is especially necessary for this agency to follow them on that segment. So it's started with that, anyway, it's also going to need to rise to even higher levels. When we talk about information, we should also point out this measure of investor information, it also seems to me that one of the many major problems when we talk especially about starting up and moving into entrepreneurial waters is the fact that a small entrepreneur can often not be detailed even about all the regulations and rules that must be met in order to start a certain activity. I'm sure this agency, too, but the whole system, too, has to figure out how to get that little businessman at his service, to be his service. So, that a small entrepreneur who may be one or two or three workers enters the entrepreneurial waters to give him all the information so he doesn't get into a situation to come in three days, for 10 days of inspection and to tell him you didn't meet this regulation or that regulation because he didn't and can't be really well informed. I think that this whole system, and this agency, too, has to jump in a quality way and to this extent, when we talk about informing investors, that's definitely what this is about, especially when it comes to providing information to investors. But I would certainly encourage action in this area. Finally, I would say that this report shows that the work of this agency has significantly helped the small- and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector through the measures that have been, as seen from this report, well-affected, well-structured. Too bad they couldn't have been bigger, and from the data you've already heard in the debate, so in the previous two years it's been opened in this area net of 12 thousand new jobs it's seen that in this segment the work of this agency was good. And certainly on behalf of the SDP club, we will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81845	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the president of the HAMAG administration, Mr Darko Liovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81846	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, here I thank you for the debate, and I have remembered all your suggestions. Of course you can and must be better. I would only refer to myself, so during the debate certain issues were raised, the roles of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments in general in encouraging the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship as well as on some other issues. So let me just introduce you to some of the activities that we're doing right now, which are on the trail of what was just mentioned here. Therefore, it was mentioned that the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments should therefore take a step in the regional part and therefore encourage regional development of all Croatian areas. In particular, when it comes to the implementation of an entrepreneurial impulse, there is one way to say it is such positive discrimination where one additional point for grants is awarded, so it is precisely by the evenness or development of the state area, or especially those areas where the degree of economic development is below the average of the Republic of Croatia. As far as transparency is concerned, we all call for transparency, but the fact is that as far as the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments is concerned, for the first time, the public publication of information related to the approved support is concerned, i.e. the guarantee issued. This is the first time since 2012 so that in this way all approved state support is shown transparently and in this direction this step, at least for this institution, was made for the first time in the last year. There were also certain comments concerning the structure of the portfolios of the guarantees issued, so it was noted that the question in which sectors are the guarantees being placed? The question was therefore raised by agriculture, so the fact that out of the total billions and 300 million kunas of the Croatian small economy exposure agency and investments in agriculture is 540 million kuna exposure. However, I will tell you that in 2012 and 2013, only 140 to 700 and some million guarantees issued in the agriculture sector are generated, and the other 400 million kunas in the portfolio are guarantees issued before 2012 according to the operational programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture for the Encouragement of Pigs, Beef, Sustainable Nasadas and other operational programmes implemented by the Croatian Government in the period before 2012. So there was one important step in the structure of the guarantees issued so that more agriculture, I would say as much of course as it takes to encourage agriculture, but a step towards other sectors is, therefore, primarily there I think of tourism and the processing industry. The issue has also been raised in this debate as to why guarantees are issued to state banks. I will also note that by 2012 the structure of the guarantees issued was between 70% and 80% of the guarantees issued to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Croatian Post Bank, and the Croatian Bank which are therefore state-owned. In 2012 and 2013, the share of guarantees issued to state banks, i.e. state-owned banks, fell from 70 percent to less than 30%, which is precisely what it was mentioned that the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments must take a step towards commercial banks, which is why we are doing in this past period and the aim is to just encourage business banks, commercial banks to lend small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to the Republic of Croatia. Here, I thank you again for the constructive debate. On behalf of the administration of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment, I promise that we will continue to work intensively to improve the entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia for our own part and that we will try to adapt our projects and programmes in a way that is really useful for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81847	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we start with the Attorney General's report for persons with disabilities for 2013 and at 12 o'clock we will vote on the points discussed. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-17-0.u81848	Next, Report on the business of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investment in 2013. In line with the proposal of the Croatian Parliament Economic Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency is accepted in 2013". Please state who's for the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 81 votes for and 31 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. This concludes the decision on the items on the agenda.
