ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82692	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and representatives of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen. The GDP decline marked last year. GDP fell realistically by 1% and that was 5 years in a row of GDP reduction or stagnation, which means a cumulative decline since the end of 2008 by 12%. Last year, the decline in GDP was the result of a decline in domestic aggregate demand with a slightly positive, almost neutral contribution from net foreign demand. If we look at the elements of GDP, we can see that personal consumption is relatively reduced by 1%, in the midst of a reduction in real income, mostly under the influence of a smaller number of employees and due to a reduction in the average real net salary, reduced transfers, and also due to continued deleveraging of the household sector. Gross fixed capital investments were also reduced by 1%, which is also 5 years reduction in investment, so last year on the domestic aggregate demand side, one public spending was slightly increased by 0.5%. As observed by the production industry, the decline in overall economic activity in 2013 contributed most to the reduction of gross value added in the processing industry, while growth highlights several service activities, mostly related to the public sector. Under such conditions, labour market developments continued to deteriorate. Although employment stabilisation was visible in the first 8 months, the labour market performance was somewhat more favourable than in the previous year, at the end of 2013, so in the last quarter... unfavourable trends caused the average number of employees at the annual level to decrease by 1.5%. In the total downfall of the number of employees in 2013, negative movements contributed to almost all economic activities, except for certain service activities and the public sector. At the same time, unemployment increased from 15.8% to 17.1% compared to 2012. After a long series of years of balance of current accounts, the Republic of Croatia was positive last year and was at about 1% of GDP according to the recently revised data. It was therefore necessary to go deep into the crisis to eliminate Croatia's typically very high negative current account balance, which clearly shows how unsustainable the model of growth was before the crisis based on the high current balance of payments deficit. It is based on large foreign borrowing and capital inflows which were not focused excessively on export production but significantly more on domestic final consumption which, as we said, is the one which currently contributes to the further reduction of GDP. At the same time, foreign capital flows in the capital account were primarily determined by a strong government borrowing. The banks continued to deleverage even though they were weaker in intensity than in 2012. In the midst of further abstention of foreign investors, direct equity investment inflows have been further reduced, and new investments have been achieved mainly through investments in real estate, financial intervention, retail trade and metal production. A significantly lower profit of foreign-owned domestic companies also affected... profits that enter one part, meaning, in direct investments, which were negative last year. The gross foreign debt rose slightly from 44.9 billion euros at the end of 2012, to 45.6 billion euros with banks and businesses being debted, while the state additionally owed. The net foreign debt, however, has fallen slightly from 26.2 to 25.8 billion euros. Although the level of foreign debt relative to GDP has already been stabilised at around 100% of GDP, i.e. 105% last year, Croatia remains at risk of sudden changes in capital flows on the international financial market due to high levels and the need for re-financing or significant changes in borrowing costs. The total result of the movement of the current and capital account of the balance of payments was the tax of the CNB foreign reserve. The gross international reserves of the Republic of Croatia were at the end of 2013. 12.9 billion euros, which is 14.9% more than at the end of 2012. The net international reserves reached 10.5 billion euros, i.e. they increased 3.3%. The RS foreign exchange reserves therefore continue to grow continuously, but for very different reasons in the pre-crisis period than those in the crisis, but such a movement of reserves also says that the CNB throughout the whole time, regardless of the nature of the reason for the reserve growth did not defend the course of swearing as it was rarely perceived from the weakness and alleged preservation of the unsustainable estimated level. The CNB implements the policy of so-called policy. Management... course, i.e. The dominant course determines only the market and the CNB intervenes on the foreign exchange market in fact rarely and with the aim of preventing the rapid large oscillation of the exchange rate. The CNB has timely diversified foreign reserve portfolios in line with the measures to reduce interest risk during the crisis, forming so-called ‘T’. HTM Holt to Maturity portfolio or portfolio of instruments held to maturity, which has been demonstrated under the conditions of expansion monetary policies of central banks and falling yields crucial to maintaining the appropriate level of net profit. The revenue from the business of the CNB in 2013 amounted to a billion and 16 million kuna and was 32.4% more than in 2012. The operating costs amounted to 296 million and were 1,1 % higher entirely because of the increase in the cost of printing of money. A net profit of 736 million kuna was made, of which 303 million were allocated in general reserves, and 432 million kuna was transferred to the state budget. The careful policy of minimising the interest and currency risk of the CNB thus did not join the number of European central banks that suffered losses during the crisis. Central bank foreign exchange transactions with state-owned business banks and recently the European Commission, following Croatia's entry into the EU, net purchases of 341.3m euros and thus created 2.6 billion kuna. The average surplus liquidity of the monetary system increased to 5 billion kuna in 2013 and the average overnight interest rate on the interbank market dropped to the lowest recorded level of 0.37% so far. In accordance with the terms described in the monetary market, the CNB reduced the interest rate to overnight deposits of credit institutions at the CNB from 0.25% to 0% in April 2013, and in December the rate to Lombard Credits was reduced by 6.25% to 5%. The increase in international reserves also means creating a new additional liquidity. Behind each euro of foreign exchange investment stands the corresponding amount of kuna in the domestic system. Due to the characteristics of the Croatian monetary system, increasing foreign reserves and gradually reducing mandatory kuna reserves are essential and quite sufficient flows to create new money and new liquidity. And without the classic open market operations used by many other central banks with a negligible level of minimum reserves and a different active structure of their CNB balance sheets leads a very dynamic monetary policy or very extensive primary money policy. The reasons why this is not sufficiently reflected in the expansion of monetary mass growth lies, however, outside the reach of monetary policy itself. beyond the reach of this policy are the reasons why there is no new credit investment cycle, why there are no larger public and private investments, and in particular private investments in export-oriented production with secured placement on foreign markets, which would have been as we repeat for a long time on the most effective element of growth in economic activity. Therefore, all previous attempts and models of stimulating the credit growth of the CNB were only partially successful. In the last few years, the Central Bank has made it possible to implement different economic lending programmes. One of them is the economic development programme that the Central Bank launched in mid-2012 in collaboration with HBOR. Therefore, at the end of 2013, the CNB launched a new model aimed at supporting business lending, which also included the downturn of mandatory reserves from 13.5% to 12%. This time, however, the funds released by reducing the bank's reserve rate had to be placed at the same time in the three-year mandatory CNB cash registers purchased by the Central Bank only before the maturity date in case of an increase in credit granted to enterprises. Despite the policy-making emphasis on high liquidity, the movement of monetary and credit aggregates in 2013 and further maintained the lack of recovery in the real economy sector. The net foreign assets of the monetary system increased thanks to the improvement of the foreign position of the Central Bank, as well as the improvement of the net foreign position of credit institutions where the foreign debt was less pronounced than 2012. The net domestic activity system recorded moderate growth in its structure, most strongly increasing central government placements while being paid to other sectors, if we exclude exchange rate changes and one-time effects remained almost unchanged. Businesses reported a slight growth in loans of 2% while the population sector continued to deleverage and the credit growth rate for the sector was down 1.6%. Changes in net domestic and net foreign assets resulted in an increase in total liquid assets and M4 by 2.9%, respectively. One of the most significant factors in the modest growth of credit to businesses lies in their insufficient capitalisation and in the widespread lack of available collaterals, so, as we have pointed out several times as an incentive for lending more effectively at the moment, risk sharing programmes and guarantee schemes for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, high liquidity and ifmodative monetary policy have had a strong impact on the interest rates on the money market. They have fallen to their lowest levels so far, followed by contributions to the Treasury accounts of the Ministry of Finance for all maturity and currency nominations, which allowed for the very generous and favourable borrowing of the state both in kunas and in euro on the domestic market for one to two years. At the same time, interest rates on long-term government bonds issued on the domestic and international markets have increased under the influence of the country's risk premium growth. The long-term... liquidity of the financial system also contributed to a slight reduction in passive interest rates in 2013 while active interest rates remained stable. As regards low inflation as the primary legal objective of the Central Bank of inflation in Croatia, it was measured by the consumer price index and in 2013 it was 2.2% measured by monthly annual inflation rates in 2013 from relatively high 4.7% in December to only 0.3% in December 2013 with the highest contribution of energy and food prices. In 2013 inflation slowed down, on the one hand, the short-term factors, in particular the spill-over of raw oil prices, food and other raw materials on the world market at domestic prices, the favourable effect of the base period related to the increase in value added tax and the administratively regulated prices in early 2012, and the increase in competition after the remaining protection customs duties for the Member States of the European Union had been abolished by Croatia's entry into the European Union. On the other hand, poor domestic demand and the absence of domestic cost pressures have been a factor that has been continuously contributing to a low inflation rate for several recent years. When we talk about the second main job of the CNB, about the stability of the financial system and the supervisory supervision of banks, I want to repeat once again the fact that the banking sector in Croatia did not have a place where the crisis started, as was the case with the global financial crisis, it did not need to be resolved on the burden of taxpayers, nor did it raise public debt or deficit. In other countries, it was the financial sector that was the trigger of the crisis that then spilled into the real sector that caused the spread of deficits and public debt, thus eliminating the space for fiscal policies for countercyclical policy during the crisis. The stability and robustness of the banking sector ensured the country's external liquidity and the orderly financing of the budget deficit and could be argued that there was also a reason for the absence of more sensitive credit contractions which could otherwise be expected in such conditions and which occurred in most other economies. During the crisis, in 5 years of crisis by the end of 2013 means from 2008. Croatia has recorded the highest growth of credit in businesses from all 28 European Union countries. However, the long-term crisis and the decline in GDP are increasingly inevitable, adversely affecting the banking system, the size, structure and quality of the total balance sheet and the profitability of the banking system. The total assets of banks decreased by 1.8 billion or 0.5% in 2013. This was influenced by regulatory changes in the area of the classification of placements, the sale of part of the claim of a bank and the exit of the Bank from the system. The absence of a stronger recovery of credit activity, continuation of unfavourable economic movements and aging credit portfolios have affected the continued deterioration of credit quality indicators. The share of partially compensated and non-refundable plasmas increased from 13.9% at the end of 2012 to 15.6% at the end of 2013. And the tax would have been even more pronounced if one bank hadn't transferred part of the problematic payments to the company owned by the bank. In doing so, the biggest impact on the reduction in the quality of total loans had loans in companies where the share of problematic loans reached 28.1%. There was a constant decrease in the coverage of problematic loans to value corrections. Therefore, new regulatory measures have also been adopted, with the preparation of the most significant banking groups for the quality of the assets carried out by the European Central Bank, which is currently taking place this year, leading to a significant increase in the coverage of problematic loans to value corrections. In addition to the increased coverage of the reserves, there is also a high level of equity adequateness in the European Union. At the end of the year, it was 21% guaranteeing that in an exceptional case, few likely extra sudden stress such as an additional stronger decline in gross domestic product, the system as a whole can withstand and maintain stability. The bank's profits also decreased significantly in 2013 and profitability indicators further deteriorated. The biggest impact on the decline in profits stemmed from a significant increase in the cost of correction of value and booking, which is primarily linked to the amended rules on the classification of placements and as I said by preparing the largest banking groups for the assessment of the quality of the assets carried out this year. This aims to achieve a more objective assessment of the value of collateral and a timely recognition of the potential for loss. The drop in profits also contributed to a reduction in the net interest margin under the influence of lower interest rates and lower market interest rates. The bank's profitability pressures have eased better cost management, especially... in the financial market, and the reduction of general operating costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Profitability indicators dropped to the lowest level since 1998, with the profitability of the average asset at 0.3% and the profitability of the average capital of only 1.3%. Finally, the core objectives of the Central Bank, price stability and the banking system continue to be achieved successfully. And the efficiency of the impact of monetary policy on credit activity and the increase of domestic aggregate demand despite the very expansional monetary policy as well as the additional schemes to encourage business lending remains limits on the side of the offer, i.e. the structural conditions of the investment climate and the slow exit from so-called "couragement". balance sheet recession caused by high debt levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82693	Thank you, Your Honor, Governor. We have one replica of your presentation, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82694	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Governor with the Deputy. One very interesting report, initially very poor government indicators in all segments and good CNB indicators. And on the basis of that report, there is a logical opinion, thinking and a question to you, and I honestly expected that you might say more about it in your opening explanation for the reason why this is often mentioned in these parliamentary discussions. And whether the central bank could with some projects, with joint action with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have a more significant impact on the economy in the Republic of Croatia because it is evident from your last sentences that what is fortunately left stable in Croatia, which is the banking sector, in fact the complete financial sector of the Republic of Croatia, has been recording reduced profits for the past two years and the question is what will become of their activity. And so I say it would be logical that after this opening explanation where you were presenting macroeconomic indicators that you were presenting certain HNB indicators, whether or not your own thinking and vision could or could not be incorporated into some processes by the legal regulatory central bank. And the second thing, how much the conditions for such operation of the central bank have been reduced at the moment that Croatia entered the European Union and the position of the central bank is slightly different. So, I think that perhaps even during the next reports in this home today we could talk about these things because these are technical things, and given the six years of crisis in the Republic of Croatia, I think that we are all interested and finally to clarify whether the central bank can or can not, whether the central bank can risk more and help together with the banking sector because it is evident that the biggest problem of the Croatian economy is low capitalisation...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82695	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82696	Just one sentence, please. One sentence please. And the inability of business entities to get any credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82697	Dear Governor, you have the opportunity to answer your business in a replica both during and during the debate, the possibility behind each representative and his speech or club for 5 minutes and at the end of 30 minutes. Now, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82698	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for asking. As far as the issue is concerned, we're all discussing it, but what I can say is that the central bank can do it, so the central bank has been practically leading a zero interest rate policy for a long time. The way we place additional liquidity is at an interest rate of 0% which is lower than practically all other non-euro area EU countries. So the central bank of Croatia has a lower interest rate than the other 10 countries that are not in the euro area. That is one thing, it has affected that interest rates have fallen to the lowest levels since we have run an independent monetary policy in Croatia at all. And I said that last year on the money market, the interest rate fell to 0.37%, which means that the surplus liquidity is 5 billion kuna. What does that mean? We created so much liquidity at an interest rate of 0% that banks are overnight held in CNB 5 billion kuna, not placed in the economy. That's what monetary policy can do. Like I said, we can bring a horse to the water, but we can't make him drink. In fact, the banks will not give credit at any interest rate unless they believe they will return to them. So we can place very cheap money, but you won't give that money unless it comes back to you because you're going to lose. At this point in time, problematic placements, meaning non-payments, have reached a level in the economy of 28%, which means that almost every third loan the banks give does not return and that is the main problem. But it is not only a problem in Croatia, it is a problem throughout Europe. Why, because we're in what's called the balance sheet recession. In other words, the level of pre-crisis debt has reached such a level that no matter how much a modernised monetary enterprise is and the population must be disbursed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82699	With the replica and the reply to the replica we've said very much, I'd say the resolution in finishing, and you have an opportunity in the course of the debate. Do the representatives of the board want to make their views known about the CNB report? No, I don't. Then we're going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The club List of Independent Representatives and Representatives Damir Kain and Ivan Grubisic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82700	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Governor, gentlemen representatives. Yes, we have now heard in this replica that the central bank has the lowest interest rates in Europe, but our bank unfortunately has the highest interest rates. Probably the reason is that every third loan in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the economy, and a little later, de facto is not chargeable. On the other hand, when we're talking about the CNB, we're de facto talking if I can express myself like that, under quotes, so that someone doesn't get me wrong, about the fourth government and so much HNB independence must be absolutely guaranteed. The introduction of this large annual 2013 report, which was assigned to us in the fifth month, discusses a whole series of macroeconomic parameters, and I will withdraw one parallel in 2008-2013. So in 2008, all companies in the Republic of Croatia made revenue of HRK 709.8 billion, 2013. 612.4 billion kuna, that's -97.3 billion kuna. Or the profits of the 2007 Croatian companies amounted to $17.2 billion, 2013. 3.15 billion kuna. In 2008 to 2013, we lost 103,000 jobs or in 2008, we had 933 000, companies that hired that number 933 000 people, and 2013. 830,000 people. Obligations of the economy when we talk about interest with $58.1 billion of kunas have risen to $69 billion in the 4-5 years of crisis. And what may be the biggest problem, which in 2008 was 89.6 billion kuna and 2013. $37.4 billion. So a year today, 50 billion kuna is less investment than it was before the crisis. In one word, all this reflected in the central budget and the recession of the budget or budgets, together with local self-government, shortened more than 100 billion kuna in that period. Over 20 billion kunas a year. We can freely say one road a year from Zagreb down to Split. But what is most important and what he said mentioned, the governor said that the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia did not start from the Croatian banks. The banks weren't supposed to be rehabilitated. However, it would also be good to finally hear from the governors of the Croatian National Bank how many billions of kunas the Croatian state or Croatian society has rescheduled the banking system in the second half of the 1990s, i.e. how many billions of kunas have been so rescheduled the banking system under quotes. It is certainly one thing, that in a few years the profits of the banks actually covered the purchase, which means that the banks are de facto under the allegations of the robbery of Croatia. For these economic parameters mentioned by the governor, with all praise for the stability that the Croatian National Bank has guaranteed for us, on the other hand, is a co-responsible Croatian National Bank. This report says that the CNB maintained the liquidity of the monetary system in 2013 while maintaining the stability of the kuna exchange rate. And clearly, today in an over-indebted economy when every third kuna does not return to the over-indebted citizens who, every fourth or fifth kuna, do not return the stability of the kuna, so to speak, should be kept as the pupil of their eye. Where are we today in 2014? I doubt the gross social product will grow this year. I'm a little afraid for the season, it didn't go the way we expected. Here is the fifth month in Istria -10%, in Croatia -13% of the nights achieved. People are worried. I want to believe that this will change, but we do notice that in the first quarter we are recording export growth by 7.6%, the trade deficit is down by 5.6%. The season's going down and unemployment, but that's what the governor compared. And it is still bigger today compared, still bigger than in 2013 for some 5741 employees. What is also interesting to note is that the growth of net liabilities to foreign creditors increased by 1.3 billion euros in the first quarter. In the first quarter, net foreign debt means increasing by these 1.3 billion euros as a result of the growth of gross foreign debt and at the same time the reduction of foreign assets. And foreign securities are growing by 0.8 billion euros. The most contributed by private non-financial enterprises, noting the task of the biggest Croatian concert that has almost fully used these funds to refinance commitments in April. What's also mentioned are the data that the governor points out. On page 81, business movements of credit institutions, credit activity of banks to the private sector and in 2013 were said to be weak. The quality of the portfolio continued to deteriorate. Exceptional influences, the biggest impact of the sale was the demand and the regulatory and methodological changes of bank assets very slightly increased, and the profit and operational results of banks continued to fall in 2012. And now not to quote all that fact is that when we just look at the profits of Croatian banks that are falling drastically, but also later on we see that in Croatia today we have 29 banks, we have 1 savings bank, we have 5 housing savings. And when we talk about the property of banks owned then we see that 5.1% of that property, so the banks are, so 5.1% are owned by domestic shareholders, 5.3% owned by the Croatian state. It's that Post Bank and 89.7% are banks owned by foreign states. The largest number of banks owned by 6 had shareholders from Austria. The share of the assets of these banks in the total assets of the banks amounted to at the end of 2013. 60.5%, so then we have Italians 4 banks 18.3% and then all this remains are shareholders from Hungary, France, San Marino, Switzerland, Serbia, Turkey and so on. When we talk about getting our banks then we see that it is more about getting THT than all Croatian banks together. Not more than twice as much. Normally, someone will immediately wonder why we sold THT as I ask how long we finally got a metric court to sell the rehabilitated banking Croatian system at the end of the 1990s. Normally, it offends us most that the loans in Croatia are twice as big as those in Austria, Italy, it doesn't matter, France, that we don't speak Switzerland. But what is certainly important to mention is that in 2013 the banks obtained one billion kuna from the business that will continue before tax, which was as much as 2.3 billion kuna and 69.7% less than the profits achieved in 2012. So in 2012, bank profits of 3.3 billion kuna, 2013 billion kuna and 18 million kuna, 2011 even 4.6 billion kuna. By bad business, neither Croatian banks nor in any way should anyone be clearly looking forward to it because we saw what destabilising this banking system meant for many countries abroad. But no matter what, Mr. Grubisic, will you? Here, and now I leave this time, I apologize to Mr. Grubisic but fine. Maybe just one sentence to say? Okay, I won't do anything. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82701	Thank you very much. The second part of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82702	He almost wasted his time, so here's a few words. I welcome the governor of the bank, the President of the Parliament, my colleagues and fellow MPs. As far as I have read the report and the Committee on Finance, it seems to me that Croatia continues to deepen its crisis, and there is no sign of getting out of this deep recession. Unemployment is growing, external debt is also growing, we are becoming increasingly poor and the future is becoming more uncertain. This, as we say, the High House spends huge taxpayers' money and we owe it to those who pay us obviously to give a report and opinions that could be referred to better tomorrow in our people. I think we need not the cosmetic changes we're constantly talking about, but root and structural changes are not some cosmetics. Of course it is necessary we wanted it or did not want to replace the partocracy that I believe is in the work of democracy. And democracy either exists or it's gone or we have to establish it. Here, so much on the occasion of the Croatian National Bank Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82703	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go, Comrade Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82704	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the time of this report concerning the existence of the CNB and in 2013 Croatia became an EU member. And this EU membership was expected in a certain way, it was wanted and it was meant and aimed, of course, to become part of our daily life and not just some foreign-political issue that is happening elsewhere. Partly in the smaller part of the governor's report, he himself cited the way EU membership has affected and affected the situation of the CNB. The Croatian National Bank has become a member of the European Central Bank system by joining the EU, and in fact, although we love to say a lot and often that Croatia's entry into the EU has brought some restrictions in the conduct of monetary policy, it has essentially brought only one restriction, or it has brought only one requirement that EU membership has further identified the demands and responsibilities of the CNB to lead a professional, quality and impartial monetary policy. So even though sometimes in this House, and we will see how things are going to develop today, sometimes there are very heated discussions about what, so that, why and how we can use monetary policy and how the CNB might and should be involved in so-called. I can say or allow a battle for economic recovery. In fact, the answer is only one, the CNB can, should only be contributed in one way, which is to lead a responsible monetary policy that will ensure macroeconomic stability and, on the other hand, stability and quality supervision of the business of the Croatian banking system. From what is mentioned in this report, it can be concluded and we conclude that in the past year, the CNB has led its policy in this very way. She led a policy in a way that she secured in the sixth year of the crisis, the macroeconomic stability of the policy that, within its instruments, tried to expand the area for financing the economy and expand, further expand the scope of the banking system for financing the economy. And reminding me, the governor pointed out the average liquidity of the Croatian banking system amounted to 5 billion kuna in the past year, which means that the average surplus in the bank accounts was 5 billion kuna per day. It seems to me that the liquidity of the banking system itself would not be a problem for unsatisfactory credit growth, i.e. it is not a problem compared to the desired, higher credit growth expected to result in a simpler business of the receiving sector. In this viscosity we often discuss very often, and then what is really the problem. The governor himself mentioned, and stated and said the magic words, he said the magic words that these are reforms and that what is lacking in the Croatian economy prevents its growth and recovery are reforms. Well, when we are talking today about this report by the Croatian National Bank in which a lot of space is devoted and an analysis of the economic situation, then it may be a good time to discuss and ask ourselves why these reforms are not going to Croatia. In fact, the governor spoke about the economic situation, presented a number of figures, data, figures and data that we are very often discussing here, and concluded that the way out is in reform. The reform is certainly one of the most frequently mentioned words in the Croatian public space. However, it seems in a certain way that speakers whose native language is Croatian do not understand very well what it is and what the word reform means, which is change. So let's say that continuity has been around for many years. Promises of reform, of talking about reforms, but every time a change occurs then there is a complete disintegration, a complete blockade and a complete separation of society. Just some examples, former Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor published an economic recovery programme in April 2010, as soon as the programme was published, President Josipovic said it could not allow unacceptable ease of reform. Kosor was persistent and then stated that the proposed reforms depend not only on the recovery but also on the economic survival of the Republic of Croatia or on the reform for the better life of all or the fall that is not seen at the end. Then in his inaugural speech here in the Parliament, the current Prime Minister said only now begins those real reforms. So again at the beginning of this March this year, I would say that the rebalancing, the last one we had this spring message, was that the reforms really started and that this is the foundation and start of the process that we will continue in the coming years. He did not appear to have noticed that he had announced two years earlier and said the reforms were just beginning. President Josipovic is also, therefore, talking about important pillars of society, President Josipovic is also not lagging behind in calling for reforms, and Josipovic said in December politics must be above opportunism and fear of reform and must understand that there is no time for new compromises, rational decisions in financial and economic policy, they cannot wait. However, as soon as some sign of change came forward, Josipovic said of the outsourcing, outsourcing is not the right way because on the one hand it reduces costs, but for more employees, it reduces the labour rights that each should have. Thus, numerous examples of behaviour can be reduced, not to mention, of course, the inconsistencies of Prime Minister Milanovic's work law. So, in fact, a number of examples could be set in which all are committed to reform, but as soon as the changes come to the agenda of these reforms and there are no changes at that time. I think, therefore, that even in this high house, because today we have a high, high-quality, economic report in which there is no special point in protesting and discussing its accuracy, because it is nevertheless the result of the work of an institution that has proved its institutional quality over the past twenty years. Perhaps this is also an opportunity for us to discuss here and consider why we all understand why what we are all saying is difficult for reforms in Croatia and for Croatia to pass. If you allow one of the reasons, perhaps one of the main reasons why Croatia does not go to reforms is because Croatia has not resolved a fundamental ideological issue, which is whether a market economy is being built in Croatia or continues with socialism. And evidence that this is the case can also be heard in debates concerning monetary issues, especially in the part where it begins to say what it would be like. They could make banks with other people's deposits, with our deposits, and who could use all of that to lend credit. It's purely socialism, because in the market economy they know very well that they have other people's money and that money must be made available in a way to make sure that money is returned. I think, therefore, that it is just a debate on this issue and a clear determination of our society, and a provision for this is here on us, that Croatia is building and seeking to build a market economy and then a line of guidelines that gives meaning to reforms because no reform will and can succeed if the aim of the reform is not known because if it is not clear whether the reform should result in greater freedom of the market, greater freedom of the private sector or should result in the strengthening of the state, then there is no such economist, there is no team that will agree on a successful reform. Because if it can happen that in public sector reform, the government is heading towards outsourcing, which would be an expansion of space for the private sector, and then suddenly turns into the creation of a meg of a state-owned company that is purely socialism, then it clearly shows that it is aware that in Croatia a market economy or that ugly word capitalism is a predeterminer of the success of any reform, and it is also a pre-deteterminer of understanding of what to do and how monetary policy serves. One of the other reasons, of course, will bring me back to the CNB institution in part again, why reforms in Croatia go hard? I think the Croatian economists contributed to that as much as possible. Croatian economists who in public space are able to say, defend any argument. Croatian economists have not been sufficiently profiled as a profession, have not been sufficiently profiled as a source of knowledge and lines of leadership for those who are engaged in public work, those who are not obliged to know all economic techniques, Croatian economists have not profiled themselves as a place where they can be found clear and how, so many unequivocal directions on the direction of the highway. In this part, I think there is a significant space for improving labour and public influence or public reputation of the CNB. In addition to the conduct of monetary policy, in addition to supervision of the banking system, the CNB has a third, very important segment that is particularly important in terms of EU membership, which is precisely the issue of dealing with economic issues, economic research and clarifications, professional, clear clarifications of the problem, the cause of the problem and the way in which we deal with the problem in our reality. I think that the CNB in that segment as one of the few institutions that has been built in the Croatian state in a quality way, in a way that one can communicate very effectively on an equal footing with foreign institutions, I think that the CNB can make a significant step here as a source of precisely metrics and economic metrics, as a source of understanding of Croatian problems and as a source of possible options for their resolution. This is the core and essence of economic work done by other central banks. We are going towards the Eurozone today, at a certain point Croatia will become a member of the Eurozone. HNB very, I'm just stating it as an example. I'll tell you one more sentence, Mr. President. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] The CNB remains silent in this segment as well as in the segment of other research, and I think it can make a significant contribution to improving social understanding what the market economy is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82705	And to you, thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Honorable representative, Damir Caine, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82706	Mrs. Dalic spoke about Europe, Europe certainly has good, there are safe and bad sides. One of the... bad side of Europe and the influence of Europe in Croatia was their Hypo Bank. Recently, the gentleman... warned that Austrian bankers were working with the worst criminals highly ranked, bribed politicians, military officials on the secret service of this unfortunate balcony. But I want to ask in this context whether it is possible to know how much money has been made in the last 20 years from the Croatian route Austria, Liechtenstein, as I know, Switzerland, Luxembourg, etc. We know that the population of the Republic of Croatia has 143 billion kuna and 17 billion kuna savings per sight. We also know that foreigners in Croatia had 8.6 billion kuna savings this year on April 31st. Why? Because there was no interest tax here, it is 10 to 35%, from next year it is likely that more than 400,000 kuna will be paid in Croatia on interest of 12%. In the tax administration, lists with the names of Croatian citizens who were paid interest on savings in European banks were started, and what I am interested in is whether or not we will be getting such information from Swiss bankers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82707	Honorable representative, Iron Happy Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82708	Thank you very much. I was very intrigued by the controversy between the so-called. Socialist and so-called capitalist mode of production, better said economy. I consider it a very simplified and ideological and model view and there is no more purely socialist way of working, and long ago neither theoretically nor in practice there is something called a pure capitalist way of working. If you look at our basic normative acts, let's say the Constitution that Croatia defines as a social state, it's a combination of capitalism and socialism, it's actually a socio-political way of easing the consequences of capitalism. In other words, it is a regulation of capitalist modes of operation. You can also see Austria and most Scandinavian countries. The literature I read about state intervention is necessary in the so-called so-called "state intervention". Free market. And what's been going on since 2008 is, in fact, extremely conditionalally speaking, social and even socialist mode of action because in the most regulated economy like the United States, as the UK has intervened, you're careful what, to save banks, to save a part of the financial industry so that the whole system can work. So, I think that with these things you should be careful especially when you're potentialing them on an ideological level, and in reality, like I said, this quasi conflict seems very simplified to me, and then, at the very end of the sequence, it's very unproductive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82709	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82710	Well, you're colleague Flego quite certainly right, I would agree with you completely, and the reason why I said it in the way that I did is that I'm just potentiating the opposites between two ways of approaching economic policy. It is therefore one that is marketable that expands the space for the private sector to operate, to act on market mechanisms, to act on competition and all of the motives that this competition then gives in economic life. And the one who is socialist we all know ourselves, it potentifies a number of economic activities of the state. And this is one of the problems with which you and you understand which currently surface when we start talking about changes or reforms in Croatia. Well, I'm also here for one of the recent examples. It is indisputable, I fully agree with you, it is undeniable that no one disputed the social character of the modern state, it is a question of civilization's achievement only the question of whether it goes into its extremities that blocks the functioning of the elemental economic mechanisms. And no one argues that the market economy requires a strong state but is a regulatoryly strong state that is able to carry out its regulatory executive functions, and economic, economic, entrepreneurial, these are the places where the state falls. And these are also the reasons, at least the reasons that I offered in my debate, which is why reforms fall into us, is that every time reforms come to order, we actually have big issues and great opposition to reducing the economic and entrepreneurial role of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82711	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82712	I am glad that I can express my respect for Martina Dalic as a person and as a person who is expert in this problem, but I was surprised that she was too theoretical in her presentation, and that she did a little going on concrete suggestions and concrete opinions that I think she should have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82713	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82714	Well, you know, I'm really glad you noticed that, because there's an implicit assumption in us that economists don't understand politics and that economists don't deal with politics, and they shouldn't deal with politics, but they're expected to deal with just some numbers. And the numbers we had here, yesterday I was dealing with numbers, so I guess you noticed that I'm still very well in control, I'm in control of all these numbers. But if you allow at least me as an economist, I can't and can't work hard in this House, and even in the whole part of my work that I have devoted to the public sector, without asking myself, which is why Croatia is blocking, which is different from other countries than other countries, however we want it to, that it can't use its potential as objectively as it does, and which is why everyone else is smarter than us that no such long crisis has been recorded anywhere but in unfortunate Greece. So it's impossible to actually deal with economic numbers and seek economic solutions, and at some point you don't start dealing with questions about what it is that blocks them. And I simply concluded to you that there is no and no economic reform that can at the same time encourage these mechanisms of the market economy, and that it is pleasant to a socialist optic because we are one society that comes from socialism and that makes it our legacy. Here's if I'm too surprised...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82715	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82716	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Dalic, you have rightly raised a question here about the direction of implementing reforms whether they go towards strengthening the private sector and the market economy, that they are in fact completely leaving the market or that they are going towards strengthening the state or social rights or mixing the state into those reforms. And it would be on that side, it's total, there's no objection at all. However, what is holding back the reform, and you have tried to ask the same thing in your presentation as a question, I personally think that if you take an example of pre-fashion settlements, all that's accumulated in history, means whether part of the system or the whole system has failed simply happened that more than what you're warning here happened, not only that the state has interfered but it has interfered in such a way that it has to resolve things that concern only the markets. So long-term unpaid liabilities to each other and what... The usual court case failed to implement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we're talking about collective agreements and your government, while you were a minister, signed with the collective contract unions that gave great rights that were later the brakes of reforms. Because reform simply enters human rights, we have to admit that because some of the things that were common to people by then change after implementing reforms. And as for the outsorcing, you have spoken only and exclusively likely on the economic side, however, and there are people in the system, people involved, not only the economic issue of outsorcing but there is a social social question, people who are part of the collectives that ultimately decide in those collectives. Whether it's the legacy of socialism that's the second question, but there are such things on the ground and there are great resistances to reforms, you've been witnessing yourself in the past few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82717	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82718	So here's when you mention each and every one of us draws some conclusions. And if we're already talking, if you've already mentioned pre-fashion settlements as the first one, you see just pre-fashion deals and everything that's happened with pre-fashion deals and how it's still going to happen, it's actually taught me and it's further strengthened me in my conviction that the state can't reverse the market mechanisms. And that mixing these two things is kind of a way into hell filled with good intentions. And that's one of the great examples of our two lives. Because it's undeniable and let's just say the pre-fashion settlements were introduced for a reason to clear up some stock, some state of business in serious trouble. And this was because our state was not strong in those essential functions of the regulatory, judicial course in essence, and companies were to go bankrupt in time or in pre-fashion proceedings and did not go into pre-departure proceedings or to bankruptcy in time, among other things, and because of this social care and job care. And finally, the result of great social care, job care and the weak state in the part where it should be strong, in part of the institutions, is actually the result of the loss of these same jobs and the disappearance of the same social protection. It's about barging one effort to get into the functioning of a market mechanism with some kind of socialist perspective on reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82719	Thank you very much. I don't want to stop an interesting debate, but I want to say something that's long ago, it doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, but it's important to hunt mice. ... That's important. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, it wasn't an economist who wanted to reconcile the debate on these extremes I'd say developmental directions. And now I ask the honourable representative of Krešimir Bubal to present on behalf of the HDZB views on this Report of the Croatian National Bank. Here's your buddy, Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82720	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, the governor with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report ahead of us earlier this year than it was last year for the CNB, so here's what I wanted to talk to you about on behalf of the club. Looking at dry figures that sometimes hurt nothing, which are sometimes not television, then it is difficult to create public perception of what is happening in the Croatian macroeconomic environment, which is happening in Croatia. But also what's most important is what are macroeconomic forecasts for the next few years. Looking at this statistically, I'd say the report, but also the report that's here part of it, and I read the governor who's on the 268th page, and then it's really concise, and when we look at the opinion of the review, then it turns out that based on the opinion of the review, we should congratulate and say good-bye. But at the same time as watching the Croatian National Bank Report and looking at the situation in the Republic of Croatia, then imagine yourself and you can simply say whether the CNB is a country or not. Also, by looking at the ownership of Croatian banks, we can say that the banking industry is 90% owned by foreign companies, foreign owners, 5% in state and 5% in private ownership. But also when we look at the business of banks in the last year of 30 banks in the Republic of Croatia, 10 of them were doing negative business and when we look at two leading banks, I mean Zagreb and Privredna almost 68% of the profits have just been made by the two banks. Looking at this banking industry, looking at the ownership structure, then the question is whether Croatia has the leverage to implement policies, looking at this banking environment, but looking at our entry into the European Union, which many have talked about bringing us flowers, that it will bring us better credits... We see that this has not happened in the last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Looking at these levers then we can ask ourselves, apart from the National Bank, what insurance companies are doing, whether through pension funds they are really levers aimed at improving the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, and who controls pension funds and whether we control them enough and whether pension funds are used to clean up bank balances. Only passive observers can serve this CNB report as one good statistic, but looking at this report then we can say that the CNB was not a co-creator of this policy, national policies in the past year because, looking at the decline in GDP in the last 6 years, looking at the growth of unemployment, looking at the decline of interest in credit arrangements at all, we can say that there has been a cramp in Croatia and that there is no recovery. So by looking at what the CNB is doing and looking at what the government is doing, we can say that it doesn't know what the left hand is doing. So here is knowing and often reading that the governor is a good friend with the prime minister, so if the prime minister does not listen to the opposition, it is time for the governor to speak in this Croatian Parliament, perhaps the prime minister will listen to him. Looking at these reports, we can say that the economic environment in Europe is improving, but in Croatia there is no recovery. Looking at these macroeconomic indicators, we can say that we've been in debt for years, that we live on credit, and we're going to die on wars. The governor said earlier that stability and liquidity were a priority, and yet I think that the priority is the life of our citizens, the stabilisation of the economy, the economic sector, the lending of this very economic sector under favourable conditions and the better life of our citizens. Well, I talked about it the other day when the PPDS area is abolished, and we don't have a regional development law that directly from 1.1.2015 our PPDS citizens will live even worse, that credit arrangements will rise even less, and that they will get even less into loans. There is an increased pessimism that feels at every step, and also the deleveraging of our fellow citizens who see that they cannot properly service their obligations. Looking at the assets in the last year, we see that the only assets of compulsory pension funds are growing, but the question is the quality of the assets they have and what will happen when they have to pay their pensions. Our Constitution clearly states Article 49 that foreign investors are guaranteed the free export of profits and capital invested. So I wonder what will happen when these foreign banks begin to extract their profits and capital invested, and we feel slowly tow those arrangements from Croatia that have been present for years, which have been well fertilized in our premises and there is a slow return and deleveraging towards the banks of the queens that are operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's just a moment ago, and the governor is talking about a deterioration in the credit portfolio. Well, that's quite logical, because seeing less and less people work, seeing as our economy hasn't adapted to European standards, looking at and exporting in the past year that it fell then it's logical that the portfolio will be getting older, but also that it will come in the coming years to worsen that portfolio. Looking at the bank's income when we look at both interest rates and we look at 4 billion that they've made the bank's income from compensation, then we see that there's safe room for further reduction, but there's also a reflection of the economy right on the banking sector. What is needed is the re-industry of the Republic of Croatia, and this can best be achieved through HBOR, through more favourable credit arrangements. This is where we didn't do the job and we expect the HBOR, but also the Government to take one more step and especially help our exporters. A moment ago, we were talking about the stability of the currency that is important, but our goal is the stability of the system, but also the stability of the economy and the stability of our inhabitants, strengthening the consumer basket and maximum employment. Looking at how the decline is just looking at Group B and C when we talk about the risk and the deterioration of the credit portfolio, but also seeing that DAB has paid out 4.5 billion kuna from Croatia for secured savings, we hope that no new Center of Banks, Credo Bank or any other one will happen in this and next year. Because it is certain that in this structure of the portfolio itself, seeing that 10 banks were doing negatively in the Republic of Croatia then we can certainly expect certain problems, although looking at the adequateness of the capital at the moment it is good, but we need to see whether this capital adequateness was also aimed at strengthening the Croatian economy. We in the Croatian Parliament have also brought the Strategic Investments Act, we have brought it, but we see that there is nothing in the Republic of Croatia from strategic investment, so the question is what can Croatia do at this time to become an economic operator of Europe and the world, what it can do with its economic zones, what it can do with credit arrangements, but also with various incentives to just focus on strengthening the economy and attracting precisely these investments. This environment of ours, but looking at the cumulative economic downturn of 12% since 2008, looking at the perception of the risk of the Republic of Croatia that has increased and increased year by year, seeing us in debt and yesterday, Duje slightly interested me when he said in two of those arrangements last year, Croatia owed about $3 billion and 300 million, when he said well so the checks went. He says there weren't any ships. So when we see that in Croatia 20 billion and 900 million kunas are in circulation across the Republic of Croatia and seeing that credit debt in the last year of the Republic of Croatia was greater than its money in circulation, then it is one perception that we can actually see what it is doing in Croatia and how we sink from day to day. Also, there is a price of real estate and comparison in the reports on page 25. It says in Croatia the price of real estate fell 16 and a half percent, in Zagreb 14.9 and in the Adriatic 20%. Slavonia is not even mentioned, because the real estate market in Slavonia doesn't seem to have any. Well, I'd like the governor to be covered in the next report by Slavonia, so that we can at least compete even though we know what the situation is in Slavonia. And since there is no regional policy, there is no regional support then we see that this report of the Croatian National Bank also leaves out Slavonia and Baranja. Looking at foreign investment in the last year, it was mostly a capital debt conversion. That's what we're worried about. No new investments, no new investments. The only thing that looks like strangers couldn't charge turns into capital. Now that's a question for all of us living in the Republic of Croatia why investments are missing, why investors are running away from this government and from the Republic of Croatia? Looking at the general government's debt since 2008 was 30% of the last year's gross social product, we've gone to 67%, and this year we're going to significantly exceed that figure. And our tampering with those European standards will be painful and difficult. But in Croatia someone needs to tell the truth, we need to look ourselves in the eye and talk about the condition in which we live that we cannot spend more than we have. Croatia spends more than it has. In Croatia, no one thinks about what will happen tomorrow and not think about what will happen today. And then when we look at this report, looking at our fellow citizens' assets, when we see that in 2011, 868 million property was taken over, last year, a billion and 550 million, and we see every day our fellow citizens taking them out of their homes, throwing them and dragging them on the floor of the property they lived in, and maybe not with their own merit, they were out of work, but because of the failed policies of this government, and then we wonder what kind of state we live in, and if we can really protect those citizens. We in the HDZ are of the opinion that we can and that is why we have made certain proposals. But looking at the bank's profits as well. On page 88. In 2011, we know it was a profit of 3 billion and 784 million, and in 2013. 726 million. Someone would worry and tell them what the banks are going to do, they're going down. But we in the HDSSB aren't worried, because we know when it comes to classifications they only increased the classification when we talk about the B, C group, and that's where the bank's profits are hidden. But looking at that profit of 726 million kuna, it's still extremely high. The interest income was 19 billion and 801 million, fees 4 and 276. But when we see that our population is now decomposing and looking at a few years ago that it was 128 billion, now 123, looking at companies that were in debt to 121, and now 107 but also those who don't, however, owe it to the state, the units of the local administration are also in debt. That's what we're worried about, that's what makes it clear that the only other person who thinks he can be in charge is the state of the local administration unit. We've got to change these things. But also, I want to ask the governor today a question. What are his expectations of the new savings tax that the government is predicting and how this will affect savings in the Republic of Croatia and what we can expect in the coming months. But I expected other parameters of the governor's forecast for the next period, it may be difficult for him to assess Croatia by 2020, but at least he could present his estimates for this year and next year because that's what I think the governor must and I think we can expect in the Croatian Parliament. Because what happens in the Croatian banking industry is just a reflection of the situation in the economy and the state of our population. Therefore, we will accept this report only to the knowledge, and in fact by looking at it we cannot accept it because we see that the situation in Croatia is getting worse and worse, and there are no new policies. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82721	Thank you very much. We have two replicas from the same club. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82722	Thank you. Here you are, my colleague Bubalo, mentioning the problem of a large number of performances and those ruthless scenes we watch almost daily. In addition, it is the huge number of Croatian citizens whose accounts are under blockades. When we wrote the motion for discussion, it was about 100, 310 thousand kuna. Today, the number of some 318 thousand citizens who have blocked accounts is mentioned. That's why we've just asked for a debate on the problem. So, we did not submit any amendment or proposal to the law that we know or may not fit into government policy, but we simply asked for the opening of the debate to try to see whether, independently of the political parties we belong to, we have any response both as the Croatian Parliament and as the Croatian Government or fiscal government, and certainly monetary authority can help in this matter whether we can find some measures to protect Croatian citizens from the consequences of the recession that hit them and which did not directly cause Croatian citizens. And many of those who cannot repay their loans today are not directly responsible for the fact but are simply collateral, and in fact direct victims of the fact that Croatia is in recession for the sixth year. It is not their fault that they lost their jobs, which is a real drop in the standard of citizens, which has dropped pensions, which has increased interest rates, which has increased the exchange rate of the euro, especially the Swiss franc, and which I simply cannot serve my obligations. So that is one problem that monetary authority could certainly help to actually try to find additional measures to make it easier for people to get through this recession period.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82723	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82724	Thank you very much. Here is a colleague, Djurovic, we went with suggestions for this reason because in Croatia there are 380 thousand citizens who are in serious trouble and do not see a solution, they do not see a way out. The Croatian Parliament and Croatian institutions must give these people a new chance, they must give them a chance to survive, not to die as slaves, and as they died 2,000 years ago, to drag them around the floor of the police to protect the laws clearly but not to beat people and move them out of their homes. The recession has done a lot, but this Parliament can do a lot for those citizens. Croatia has entered into debt slavery, and it feels that way for our citizens, we become an RH protectorate that only performs certain tasks and obligations, we prescribe laws instead of creating our own policy. And just one of these policy makers can also be the CNB with the Croatian government and change the attitude towards our citizens so that they can survive even in a time of severe crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82725	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82726	Thank you very much. A colleague, Bubalo Protectorate said, it is clear from page 156 and from some of the documents that the CNB is also becoming more and more dependent on the Government's guidelines, rather than joining the European Central Bank which will also have much more power over national banks, that is, the Croatian National Bank, and all other banks, in the sense that this European Central Bank is doing a supervisory risk assessment, an assessment of the quality of active commercial banks and a shock resistance test. Europe is concerned by these shocks of banking that have taken place, so I would say that the unitaryisation of total European banking of some of the responsibilities of the CNB will also go to the European Central Bank. But what I was going to say was that according to commercial banks, so people don't know which is commercial, which is the role of the CNB, there's been a nuance with citizens looking at all these images, and even there's been a self-organization of citizens just against the acts that the police are doing, the state in the case of these performances and these terrible scenes that happen almost daily in the Republic of Croatia. What the CNB said here in the data that the state and units of local self-government are increasingly committed also to the failure of structural changes in the state administration. We know about all the consultants to say purchases for all the consulting services that have been paid fat as if ministers, assistants, deputies and all those thousands of employees had no brains but had to use and pay consulting companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82727	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82728	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Grubisic, you've detected well, Croatia has become a protectorate, watching as we adopt laws and how we behave. But what also concerns us strongly is the decline of the credit risk of the Republic of Croatia, in a few months more and more, we have come into the trash, there is no clear policy regarding this garbage, nor the governor, nor the Prime Minister. We therefore expect clearer policies but also a clearer view in relation to credit obligations and the possibility of strengthening co-operation with the IMF. You were talking about page 156, but here's to touching page 157, so that's a question for the governor. Because the government's reforms are gone and I'm afraid that in the coming months, there's an even stronger fall, an even greater number of unemployed people and people leaving the Republic of Croatia. Looking at the demographic situation, but even more looking at numerous planes and cars of people leaving Croatia, then we can ask ourselves who will be returning the loans of the Republic of Croatia in the coming years?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82729	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82730	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, the governor, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to say that almost entirely I would have signed the debate before me by my colleague Bubalo and I agree with the conclusion that in essence the CNB seems to have turned into analysts or how I think you used the expression of statistics in Croatia. But I will start with something that is not directly related to the CNB Report but is very much related to the position of the CNB, or the leaders of the CNB on the situation in Croatia. According to media reports, I'm building up, I can't determine whether it's true or not, but since 1.07.2013, the governor of the CNB has been a more paid civil servant than both the president of the state and the prime minister, and has paid $34,000 and some kuna net. According to the same reports, at the cost of nearly half a million kuna paid, more than 120 days were spent in 2013 alone, about one third, which was three times in America, four times in Asia, five times in London, visited all of Europe. It also makes sense that Croatia, that in Croatia, the people live badly and that we feel bad. It calls on the governor to implement structural reforms, move to drastically cut state spending and encourage foreign investment. I believe that this way we could agree absolutely everyone, but only in a way. The problem is that when our governor mentions those cuts, he actually advocates reducing the number of employees in the state and public administration, and 161 thousand and slightly more public administration employees are employed in science, education, health care, social care, etc. I'm almost certain when he mentions foreign investment and the promotion of foreign investment against which we are not, to be clear, that he is essentially talking about privatising everything that remains state-owned and state-owned. My colleague Komadi has not long used a handsome name for his party colleagues, and I think he would have used it safely on this occasion, that it was a typical liberal technocrat. The representatives of the CNB are the view that the function of this institution is the stability of prices and domestic currency, but we can also conclude that the CNB is the main culprit of Croatia's high-euroisation because everything has turned and turned today into euro. At the same time, the same CNB took a look at the agony that Croatian citizens went through with regard to Swiss. According to some data, almost 30 billion kuna loans from Croatian citizens related to Swiss francs, with more than 42% of all residence loans in Swiss and 47% of car purchase loans. The HNB's wise men's council was not allowed to get involved in solving this problem, they acted neatly on the sidelines, that's not their problem. At the same time, we find in this report that at the end of 2013, the CNB has 12.9 billion euros in international reserves and foreign reserves. These foreign reserves are mostly held in German banks. Somewhere I came across information that interest on these funds ranged from 0.8% to 1.2%. Croatia's external debt is somewhere around 46 billion euros, and if I check correctly, the 2013 data. The foreign debt of the central state is about 8.8.5 billion euros. Whose money did the CNB feed in those foreign banks? I'm not an economist, but I know there's an advocate among them, and that's even heard of this speaker, and it's that the CNB can make public debt out of the debt of a central bank, a central state of pardon. In doing so, interest can be agreed in the amount of, say, 2% which is more favourable than it is currently realised on the foreign banking market and can be arranged because it is also part of the state to arrange some grace period, i.e. the delay time of, say, 3 years. Wouldn't that be an active involvement of the monetary authority in extracting Croatia from the crisis? Sounds logical to me, and I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be feasible. Some, I have read some thesis that in this case it is necessary to amend the CNB Act, although I have read another opinion, also respected economists who claim that there is no need and that it is possible to implement it the same way under the existing law. If it's about changing the law, I don't see any reason why it can't be done. It's a matter of political will. Although I do know that most of the public will react negatively to the mere mention of inflation, the fact is that the CNB report itself boasts that inflation has dropped to 0.3% at the end of the year. I remind you that there are, I am sorry that there is no Mrs. Dalic here who warned about the presence of our economists, top economists in creating economic policies, but there are advocates who are more likely to get positive results from controlled inflation than 4%. It's interesting that they say that when, at least I wrote such writings, they come across such writings when they analyze the situation in Greece, Spain or Cyprus. But let's be realistic about Greece, Spain, Cyprus, I'm afraid it's very, very applicable to us. Normally, this is not the only measure that should be taken, which in this case is not the goal, but top economic experts should take a position on this, given that, however, these views are spoken by... world experts, there are also these and those who strongly oppose it, but there are also those who advocate it. Those who are against this thesis are mostly the view that enhanced austerity measures should be introduced, that we should not spend more than we have, that is the reason they explain, but the consequences we see. I agree, we can't spend more than we have, but we can't even save when we don't. And how to create preconditions to make a new profit, so that we can have, from home, return what we have. If we go with a classic sale like unfortunately practice, then tomorrow we'll have nothing to sell on anything to create a new profit from which to repay existing debts. I must admit that when I read Plan 21 of the Kukuriku coalition on the basis of which the coalition eventually won elections, I believed that there was a possibility and that the idea is good and they are there if I don't cheat on four points as a goal, as a plan through which the state will, by its investment, encourage other investments and co-operatives and internal production, let's call it that, but as the members of the Kukuriku coalition itself have already recently established Plan 21 is long dead. Now that I mention these borrowings, I must remind you of a debate that was not long ago led here about the famous 3% of the government deficit and 60% of the debt. So I can only figure out what someone before me from this same pay phone also said, I can't argue that the media inscriptions that transmitted the information from the foreign press are true, but apparently those 3% are the product of an occipital method, i.e. a number, some data and no analysis, without any calculation of the data of 3%. Is debt 60% something that has been given to God, something that has even been directed, imposed, but I'm asking a question, I went to the list last night, and I run into the data, the responsibility of Japan 200%, the responsibility of Italy whose Prime Minister Matteo Renci warned that he disagrees with the measures of excessive savings, that their duty is 135%, I'm afraid that if... in a new duty, but the duty that will not be in terms of buying social peace and satisfying certain groups of people, a group rather than in order to invest in production that should generate profit. Then I'm afraid we have absolutely no prospects. As a support to this thesis is that thinking that allegedly escaped or accidentally from one of the IMF's leaders that they made a mistake with Greece and that they imposed excessive savings measures that not only did not give the expected results, but they also achieved a counterproduct. Here someone has asked why reforms are falling, or why they are not passing because reforms are the only ones that can get us out of the crisis. Well, unfortunately, because there is no serious real will to reform you and spend it, but regardless, I don't condemn any authority now, I don't call any authority, but I realize that in these 20 and a few years of Croatian history, the continuity of us is in power, we appoint, and it doesn't matter that the one we appoint, which we place in place, has gone completely astray in that dam, has gone completely astray in the business that he's in, but he's ours and we're giving it to him as our father passes it on to his son, so we're giving him control of whatever you want, or what we've given you. Surely, in such a way of thinking, we cannot expect any change, and at least what our colleague Bubalo said, and who will repay those debts. And in the end, I'd like to thank you even though she's not here, and I'd like to thank Professor Flega, who now, half an hour ago, put out a line that I have to admit that she's impressed me because she came from this side and it's my hope that the social-democracy still didn't die in the ranks of the SDP and I believe that... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82731	You, too. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82732	Thank you very much. My colleague Novak would agree with you on the part where you said you needed to amend the CNB Act, if it turns out that the CNB law is the Republic of Croatia,...it can't be that way. But those I would disagree with are exactly advocating inflation because in Croatia there are a lot of credited residents but also businesses, and all credits are almost tied to the currency clause and would certainly be a problem in paying back in the next time. Therefore, the controlled inflation you speak of over 4% could be able to manage control and move towards the uncontrolled, although Croatia had 3.4% in 2012 last year and we estimate that we will remain at that level. But any uncontrollable inflation would lead us into even stronger debt slavery and people wouldn't be able to service their obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82733	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82734	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bubalo, first of all, I'm going to talk about what you're talking about, too, about the CNB Act. I do not claim whether the law should be amended or not, but I have simply found that there are experts who claim one thesis that it is necessary to amend the law so that this could be implemented, but there are others who claim that it is possible to implement it all under the existing law. As for inflation, I said controlled inflation up to 4% and I'm not an economic expert, but I took the right to quote the Nobel laureate who published the book this year, who was also a guest if I'm not mistaken in 2012 in Croatia and who is talking about it. I can't say that I know something about it, that I can argue with it, but I also believe that someone who has won the Nobel Prize for economic science does know something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82735	Thank you, too. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82736	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Novak, a few things, so I'll try faster and tax as much as the CNB can, which he can't. I would just like to remind, among other things, that the amendments to the Constitution in 2010 have further strengthened the independent CNB, so this has been one of the conditions for EU entry negotiations and these changes have been done as you know in the Croatian Assembly by consensus, so we have decided to do so and we have further strengthened independence and other institutions such as DORH, USKOK and so on. But I agree with you, all independent institutions are dependent on Croatian interests and that is something that all institutions associate. About these famous 3% yesterday and today we're discussing it. These are master criteria, which is why when we got candidate status as a state we knew about it and we could say that it did not suit us and we did not have to negotiate we had to be a member of the EU today, but again by consensus and this is the last consensus in Croatia when I talk about politics we decided on that path. You said we couldn't save when we didn't. But we can't even spend when we don't have, that's what I think the key to this debate that goes from yesterday to today because we and that's the problem, we haven't learned to save, and when we do. It was good years, there was a 5% growth, remember, if I'm not wrong in 2003. 5% growth, etc. and then great in 2008 with big investments, but we learned nothing from it because then we needed to save and act rationally and implement reforms that we are not doing today. But the problem is not only that we are not implementing but that no one is ultimately articulating what these reforms should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82737	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82738	Thank you very much. Well, I'm going to start here now with this final one and I totally agree with that, but in order for that to be put into operation at all what we want to achieve should become some kind of strategy not just a strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia that is applicable to the circumstances in which we live. I've had a chance to read the Traffic Strategy now, so I have to admit that I've had total disappointment. The state institutions goal, with this you started, absolutely agree that all state institutions need to be tightened, should be in the function of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. But obviously there is something that is in itself, whether some kind of birth relationship or some other relationship is exempt from it and not to say unjustly takes up other positions. 3% of the master's is but also the French, and the Italians, and at the end of yesterday I watched TV Germans speak the same about increased consumption, no more austerity measures, go with additional investment in spending, though in education, in research, in transport infrastructure. It was transmitted yesterday in news shows, probably true. It can't be saved when it's gone. I'm still saying we can't save up when we're gone, but in the sense that we have for some other time. when there is then savings for some other time compared to our case returns debts. But if we want to run something, create something that can pay back any debts, then we have to get in some way in debt, get that money. Is that through those 5 billion euros, which I mentioned, 4.5 I don't know how much it turns out...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82739	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82740	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82741	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82742	Thank you. Well, here you have a colleague mentioning an example of Japan that has a very high duty and has no problem functioning, has nothing to do with this 60%, is a similar example of the United States, but which is multiplely in charge, however, these are countries in a very specific geopolitical position compared to the Republic of Croatia. Unlike the U.S., we have no 5th, 6th, 7th fleet or half of Latin America or Euroazia using the Croatian kuna as the US dollar uses. Therefore, I think that the examples of these countries are absolutely complete, we cannot treat them at all. I'm also not sure if I'm really not an economist, there are these theories that you want any answer for Croatia can actually be in the growth of consumption without the growth of production. However we turn around, I think we've already tried this model over the past 10, 15, 20 years and we've found that by actually growing consumption we're only increasing imports because we don't produce so if we could focus our consumption on Croatian production then that circle could bring some added value. But everything we use almost in this Croatian Assembly or what we use in our houses, in our offices, in our jobs, everything we carry, everything we eat, everything we drive in, everything that surrounds us is not actually produced in Croatia. And if we're going to be in debt to get ourselves we're actually just increasing imports and burying ourselves even deeper. I think we're actually going to have to face reality one way or the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82743	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82744	Thank you very much. The example of Japan, the United States or I don't know some other countries is not listed in the context that we could compare but precisely for reasons to say that some, figuratively, prove that certain figures are not necessarily the same in different areas. It is not the same 3% in the economy of Germany, Japan's economy and 3% in the economy if there is still Croatia's economy. As far as this doubt of yours is concerned, the growth of consumption. I said if you listened well to me to expect from Croatian economic experts no matter what political side they belong to, regardless of the ideological differences to create some consensus that about what this should be impossible to achieve a consensus but at least as many of these experts involved in what would lead to Croatia from the crisis. In doing so, you claim there is nothing that Croatia produces to make it feel through consumption Very little, but in order to, that's exactly what I used to answer to another replica, there's no such strategy that we have strategically planned which are our branches, which is what we want to invest in, what we want to develop, then it would make sense, but this way I'm afraid that everything is done properly and without a plan. [[Intruder: Very little]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82745	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82746	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Novak, therefore, what we have concluded almost collectively is that GDP growth, or growth in production, Croatian production is a prerequisite for any shift and for increasing consumption that you advocate in your presentation. But how GDP will grow when you say it yourself, when in Croatia there is a part of the nepotism of unsuspecting proportions where the support of unprofessional, incompetent, unqualified people is set up and there is one inconsistencies of party ruling to place their people in all possible places in the Republic of Croatia and then such water and production companies, production plants and of course such incompetent, unqualified people for such places or needed, they cannot, here is the example of Đuro Đaković in Slavonski Brod, see who was the director of Đura, holding "Đuro Đaković" who brought "Đu Đakovićaković" that the manufacturing company lost 125, 130 million kuna in one year and a half. That's terrible. So this friendly, trendy and maternity relationship that brings our personnel into production activities to management functions cannot lead to the growth of production and the growth of gross social product. What I wanted to point out to you in particular is that, given the European Union's legislation, the European Central Bank is centralised, and that is to say and suck up the powers of the Croatian National Bank. So then the Croatian National Bank will soon be independent of the Croatian state as it is now and will be dependent on the European Central Bank which will command through single supervisory mechanisms what it does in the Republic of Croatia. And that is unfortunately our destiny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82747	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82748	Thank you very much. I will look only at the part that I was saying and in the debate which is why reforms fail. It's precisely because unfortunately, no matter what these or them, us or you are, but that they're constantly going to set themselves up for some friendly, party, godfather, I don't know what kind of relationship they're having, they're putting up shots that show a little bit of misunderstanding about where they came from, the environment they came from, the misunderstanding absolutely to be honest with nothing at all. And even that's not enough to make timely changes to react to saving jobs in the end. You mentioned "Djuru Djakovic", I had no intention of mentioning anyone, but here I will mention it because it has now occurred to me, I will mention to you the Gredelj here in Zagreb, who lost an additional 250 employees a few days ago, now it has come down to some 600 and something if I am not mistaken, and remember when it was debated. We have to rush him into bankruptcy to save that company. Now the HZ passenger transport has nowhere to produce those contracted low floor wagons, i.e. it's supposed to take over Končar, I just don't know how they're going to do the part for which they don't have the technology. On the other hand, we lost almost 2,000 jobs by political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82749	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas of your exposure. Notice. Today we would work as long as possible to finish up to the 17th point of the established agenda, with respect for our fellow Members and colleagues that we will not work, we do not have the conditions to do the 6th and 7th points because the representatives of the ministry or the Government have been prevented, one for health reasons, and another for the official travel of deputies. Please consider that. And point 8, we'll work tomorrow morning, it's a report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2013, and on the 15th and 16th points of the established agenda, they agreed at the representatives' clubs to work unitedly. ... Yes, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And point 13 is removed, or withdrawn from the procedure. It doesn't come off, there's nothing to take off. Okay, we're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of HNS MPs and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82750	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Governor, colleagues and colleagues. In most of the CNB's report, almost half of the report talks about the state of the total economy in the Republic of Croatia, and warns of the unfortunate downward trends, even in one good part and in some way alarms that some trends are such that emergency intervention is necessary, so this is not, of course, new to us. Yesterday, we discussed these topics in the budget discussion. So it warns about the decline in economic activity and domestic consumption, and it's been five years in a row. GDP in the Republic of Croatia in 2013 was actually reduced by 1%, and then this accumulation of economic activity has been 12% since 2008. The reduction in economic activity throughout 2013 is due to the decline in exports and aggregate demand. The number of employees at the annual level decreased by 1.5% compared to last year. The unemployment rate is 17.1%), the wages have fallen realistically and mostly not to continue, more or less we all know about this situation. On the other hand, in this entire report despite these findings, what the CNB's work itself is about is a stable monetary policy, it is said that the entire system is banking and financially stable, consolidated at the moment, and somehow man has the impression that this entire system is an island in this entire sea of problems that the Croatian economy has, which I don't think is acceptable to discuss on this subject. Namely, in the report on the work of the CNB or these total data are included, so through the analysis they are then criticised, have some conclusions, have recommendations or determine the situation, but as part of the entire and total system because here we seem to simply one system is wrong, that is the entire economic system, and the system of finance, the monetary system in the Republic of Croatia is excellent. The CNB is not an island or shouldn't be an island, and even less of an elite society and the fact that through a report like this, we in the CNS see that there is no need. In fact, the CNB as a key financial institution in the Republic of Croatia should be part of the total system of all institutions, and above all the Government and the Government of Croatia's policy, given that Mr. Governor has also been appointed here, and proposed by the Prime Minister. And this synergy that should be and should exist between the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the financial policy of the CNB, despite the fact that the CNB is an autonomous institution should be at one very, very high level. This way, through this report, it seems that the CNB which obviously knows what it is doing and has a situation in its part does not or can have absolutely no impact whatsoever, which seems to me a lot unsuspecting, some impact on what it does in the economy, and what it has implications for the entire and financial system of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia and vice versa. It should be commended in a good part of this report, of course, what concerns the work of the Croatian National Bank which it has undertaken. What is true is that both our citizens and entrepreneurs and businessmen felt, interest fell on loans, loans were more favourable, but unfortunately the placements did not increase. The explanation is in the report, which is why. Fortunately, there is a Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and fortunately there has been some coordination between both the Government and the Croatian National Bank, so through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, these placements have managed to increase something and I assume that through this one good part of our economy has been saved, and one part has been encouraged. So general thinking and thinking that, for many years, it's been like that, it's not Mr. current governor and the previous governor and the past government that may have been in the ideal political positions differently. Not perhaps, but it is from this present government. That's the same impression he got, no. So this kind of parallelism of independence on one side is and the former governor was very popular. He was this sort of guarantee bar as far as citizens were concerned, such a perception of the citizens that he, or the Croatian National Bank, was protecting us from some complete collapse. Maybe the citizens here are right. Somehow, that security, that stability was well pictured to the public, and it is essentially what it is. But is it possible for us to have such an institution, meaning that we can commend our work in such a way that it works perfectly while the overall economy and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is, all of these indicators speak the opposite. It's been like that before. Well, here's a kind of appeal for me, not an appeal, but from this House I think it should come out of the message that there is obviously no such synergy in the work and that it is certain that the Croatian National Bank is an institution, and also a team of six people who work there, who I suppose are well-supervised experts in the field of economy and law, doctors of science etc., that these teams and this team are really a team not only in the function of the Croatian People's Bank, but to make themselves available and with their knowledge and with their recommendations, with their insistences even in some segments where they are exclusively competent as a profession help to this government as we expect to help every other and future Government of the Republic of Croatia, and to benefit its citizens. Short. So we definitely believe that, apart from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this Parliament, the Croatian National Bank as a central bank is one of the key institutions, a key institution in preserving the financial and economic sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And from that point of view, we think we need better quality cooperation and synergy. At one point, in fact, in the report itself but also the governor said at one point, and I will only look at it individually that the banking system in the Republic of Croatia is unlike the banking systems in Europe and globally it was not directly the cause of the crisis in Croatia that everyone could probably agree with. However, no, I don't think we could say it quite in a uniform way because we all know that, in what way the banks there treated entrepreneurs half of the thousands, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and how they were conditioned, how loans to entrepreneurship were granted. Well, I have not a few colleagues and friends who have spent months buying a printing machine or I don't know any basic assets on business banks. While at the same time they were making a request for credit to buy I don't know a new car to solve it overnight, literally. So, these long-term banks that made it difficult for our entrepreneurs to make it difficult for them to do so in time, because it's very important that they go into their entrepreneurial activities in time, and some, in the meantime, in the waste of time and give up, and we can hardly say that they are not guilty and that the banking sector is not to blame for the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately today, or all these years in the situation in which it has been found. It's even worse when you see the fact and when we're all aware today of how much savings were immobilized in banks, how many properties were immobilized in banks, how the funds were placed, how some managed to get to these placements both overnight and for cars, but of course for much greater amounts. Today it's a failed company, a failed real estate, real estate that stands. So it's not like the banks weren't involved in creating this internal crisis through the way we work, that is, the way credits are placed both towards citizenship and entrepreneurs. In that it was the biggest problem, of course the CNB has the ingenuity it has, it controls, I guess most of it knows what happens even though we see it happening occasionally and that some things surprise us so some banks don't really know why it's so at a given time. And I think again in synergy, again in cooperation with the government, with the Ministry of Finance, we should find the modalities that these business banks start acting differently. And then I'm going to relate to some of the debates, and these were ideological discussions, the market, yes or no, the state economy, what are we, where are we? I think we've opted for a free market, that we all know that, but everywhere, so I'd say in the world, I won't say anywhere, but almost everywhere where the free market has one good part of combining with state planning strategically and with certain entrepreneurial terms of state activities. And the state has, as we know, and the government always has that key instrument, which is taxes, and how they're going to regulate that whole story. So we as a party are quite clear about the free market, the market for equal opportunities in which the state is the regulator and the corridor. And that's the role of the state to protect the weakest one from someone stronger or someone he wants to destroy and endanger. There was also talk about how some other countries do it, how banking systems work, so here I think this government has made a pretty big step through politics in HBOR. However, there is also still one bank owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is the HPB followed by various affairs. I wouldn't go in here now because there was surveillance and there was a correction of the CNB, but the fact is that we had that bank and let's say the Germans are working so that if they buy a car and they want a car of certain performances and AUDI has the same performances as Toyota then they buy AUDI. However, we don't have that much, so let's say I would be interested in the HPB as to whether or not the City of Zagreb budget, or whether the City of Zagreb or Holding Zagreb, which has billions over which business banks it works? So if the HPB had the same conditions as the Bank of Commerce or some other bank insignificant then the German would probably choose the HPB and that is the significant difference between us and them, not the socialist market and the capitalist market. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82751	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82752	Honored Madam President, colleague. You said that really the people have the right when they perceived the Croatian National Bank as a guarantee of the stability of the kuna and monetary policy. I disagree with you here, the people are wrong, the perception of the people is wrong. The CNB did not contribute practically to anything in terms of the stability of the kuna and in terms of the stability of monetary policy except by artificially regulating what was not well regulated. So they sort of kept it going. The question is how much did the CNB encourage both the government and the Croatian people to be in debt by maintaining such a exchange rate and such a stable monetary policy? They're theoretical issues, but there was too much theoreticalism here in the morning, so I wouldn't be going on in that sense right now. There was a lot of sympathy for the CNB, I don't know, and there was talk about Josipovic, so we didn't ideologically clear things up, so that's kind of the cause of what's going on in the country. And I want to tell you colleagues one more time that the CNB is a state in the country, but let's not be illusionists. Milanovic, Mr. Governor, did not want to come to the board. So Milanovic put it on, he can tell Milanovic tomorrow to the governor it's not you, it's someone else's governor. The government is responsible, and the CNB cannot play the role of the government. Your government, the Croatian government and my government, but you are part of that coalition, is the only one responsible for what is happening in the country. It was said of Greece, there were 100,000 people in Greece all over the streets every day, but the government said I want this and this one and this way and that's where the politics was going. And then what does the CNB have? He's got to listen to the government in things to listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82753	Thank you very much. There's no answer. And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82754	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Turin in your last sentence of time you started talking about HPB. So when are you such patriots in the HNS, otherwise why as a member of the ruling coalition, Kukuriku coalition, do you not insist on paying for traffic, or pay for everything that goes through the COP to say 260 thousand state and public officials and tenants do not go through the only Croatian bank owned by HPB? Don't turn my microphone off! Furthermore, here is a good use of the term Croatian National Bank as it is actually called, although some of your ranks often say, in previous speeches here I heard the National Bank of Croatia what it used to be, but it will never be again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82755	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82756	I am my colleague Grubisic, I was talking about the Croatian postal bank, I was actually talking about our relationship to, generally speaking about our relationship to our resources, to our sovereignty. Obviously, after 24 years, we haven't been aware of it enough, and I compared it, I don't represent as a liberal that anyone orders anyone here in the assembly, colleagues in which the bank will hold their own account and that the state says you'll all receive salaries through a certain business bank. But that awareness of people who run, or I was talking here about local self-government units, that awareness that if the two banks on the market mean they offer the same conditions for doing certain jobs, which are transactions by accounts, then interestingly the German or nobody else in particular, they will choose their own or local, or regional or state bank compared to that of a third party that is conditionally said, but only under the same conditions or better conditions. That's what I was talking about, so you wouldn't get it wrong. I am not for any state intervention, nor for an order, nor for the Prime Minister, nor for anyone else, nor for the Secretary of this Parliament, in which bank I shall keep an account. But my decision, the first personal one where I will personally hold it, and the second decision is possible as the mayor where I will hold it, or where the money will be held, through which accounts, which banks will work with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the citizens of my city and make transactions in which a business bank i.e. my or my city's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82757	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82758	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected by the Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Introducing only a few statistics, those most important ones that determine the macroeconomic context of today's debate, because we actually talked a lot about the details yesterday when we talked about the 2013 budget report. So last year, economic downturn continued so that the cumulative five-year decline is 12%. Gross domestic product is actually down 1%, domestic consumption continued, polling unemployment as a cumulative consequence of negative economic movements increased to 17.1% to 15.8% in 2012. The inflation rate measured by the index or by the growth of consumer prices is significantly reduced and the balance of payments is also positive. So there's still a bar of light. However, Croatia's debt position continues to deteriorate, also a public debt reached at the end of 2013 at 67% of gross domestic product. Under such conditions, the Croatian National Bank as a monetary authority independent of the executive government, counterpart Duja, has achieved its basic goal of maintaining price stability and supervision over banks. What is more interesting, however, is how much has the central bank done for the Croatian economy under the conditions described? The governor pointed out in the opening statement that everything the Croatian National Bank can do within the legal opportunities. Therefore, the maximum price of capital is reduced, i.e. the interest rate is practically reduced to zero. Along with HABOR in 2012 was implemented a programme of lending to the economy under favourable conditions, which unfortunately did not last, but the Croatian National Bank continued to support the economy in 2013. By reducing the mandatory reserve from 13.5 to 12.5%, 5 billion additional liquidity has been released, however, the impression remains that the economy did not actually feel it more significantly. What's the problem, why didn't it happen? So we know that the primary problem in the limited absorption power of the economy is determined by the low level of capitalisation of Croatian companies. The second reason banks are "reserved" to entrepreneurs is because already the risk-based rankings in the economy have reached a high 28%. So each third covered kuna is potentially lost to banks and that's why the banks turn on the red light. A few more sentences on bank operations in 2013. I would say that in 2013 for the banking sector in Croatia was in many cases a break-in year. In 2012 it began and in 2013 the five-year recession from the real sector to the financial sector was completed, in other words, after the previous four years of the crisis, while the economy dropped over 10% of the total 15 billion kuna profits, banks also began to share the fate of the economy, i.e. the rule that there are no good banks without a good economy or a good economy without good banks. In 2013, the credit activity of banks is significantly weakened due to reduced demand, primarily the private sector, so citizens, and then private entrepreneurs, who are exhausted by the long-term crisis, are maximumly refraining from borrowing. The banks do not have any other choice but to turn to the government and public enterprises that are far more secure. Therefore, these placements are less risky than those in the private sector, but they are also less profitable, less profitable, and this change has resulted in a sensitive reduction in interest incomes, and we know that interest revenues are absolutely the most important item in the total bank revenues. True, a reduction in the bank's interest income has been significantly compensated by reducing interest costs. The interest costs are reduced by a billion kuna and to a lesser extent by reducing interest on the citizens' deposits, and to a significant extent, they have been reduced interest to the extent that they have continued to deleverage among the parent banks abroad by replacing these foreign sources with domestic sources, primarily the deposits of the population and companies that are much cheaper in banks than the funds borrowed abroad. When I mention this substitution of foreign sources to domestics, it is interesting that in 2013 the deposits of the population, as well as companies, have increased by nearly 10 billion kuna, which is a kind of contradiction. At the same time, we also have debt growth and the increase of blocked accounts and citizens and entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, we also have the growth of deposits and citizens and entrepreneurs. I would say that on this example we also confirm a great division of Croatian society. So the minority has big savings, and most of them have big debts. But we go back to the banks, so despite the fact that they were able to compensate less interest income with operating costs, the banks made as much as 70% less profit in 2013 than in 2012, so only 1 billion kuna. This also resulted in a decrease in profitability indicators that have been the lowest since 1998 when a negative financial result was shown at the level of the banking system, so the total losses exceeded the total profit of banks. Each other of the 29 business banks we are talking about today in 2013 showed a negative financial result, therefore the loss in business. The question arises as to what causes such drastic gain and weak business results. Such a strong drop in profits is the result of a huge increase in costs... for risky placements, more than 2 billion kunas. Since October 2013, rules on the classification of placements have been amended as so-called Bad or non-refundable loans, see, more and more headaches to banks. In 2013, the share of loans of risk groups B and C reached 15.6% to 13.8% in 2012, with the need to stress that this share would be significantly higher in 2013 that one bank did not transfer a significant amount of these risk loans to its parent bank. True, even with such a high share of bad loans, we are nowhere near Romania's 33%, Ukraine's 30% or Hungary's 20.5%, but it is not good that this share will unfortunately continue to increase and the estimates are even up to 17%, while all the countries listed will reduce the share of their bad loans. What still contributes to Croatia, which is certainly its corporate advantage, is that Croatia is 21% of the best capitalised ratio in the EU, and this ensures that it still manages well with potential losses. The comparisons work, Slovenia has a 12% capital ratio. Therefore, banks in Croatia, unlike those in the countries in our environment, do not have to be recovered, nor are they the source of public debt or deficits. What is still positive and what is a strong guarantee of service of the current external debt is international reserves. The total international reserves of the CNB on 31 December 2013 amounted to 13 billion euros, 15% higher compared to their last day of 2012 at 11.2 billion euros. The High Stocks of the Central Bank are also greater than the most rigorous recommendations of the International Monetary Fund, reserves that must be made by over-indebted countries if they continue to think of their own forces, so without financial and professional assistance from the IMF, they deal with the challenges of financial over-indebtedness. Thanks to this, the monetary policy led by the CNB during the five-year economic depression, the reserves are reinforced and they are a strong fuse and against the uncontrolled skating of exchange rates and inflation recovery and further decline of the hit credit rating. The SDP Club will support the HNB's 2013 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82759	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82760	Dear Madam Vice President. My colleague, you as well as the previous speaker said that the CNB maintained the stability of the kuna. I do not agree, I mean, the stability of the kuna was not maintained by anyone's move, I mean the governor of the previous, Rohatinski or current governor, it was maintained thanks to the burden of Croatian citizens, which was maintained by the downfall of the employment of 370 thousand unemployed, by falling standards, by increasing taxes, by total recession, practically no real estate trade, means total death of economic life. And that's that short-term policy, which is based on socialist vision and banking business over the past 10, 15 years, because otherwise we said that capitalism would be worth what it's worth, and we didn't say kuna is worth what we want it to be worth. Now that's a socialist way of thinking, and that's how monetary policy is conducted. And now she's here to collect. There are also CNBs and other banks of money, but they have no one to give it to. Sam the governor said bring the horse, but he won't... because there's no one to take the money. And the proof is that the CNB came to the wall, too. She doesn't have more expensive supplies, she's got supplies, but what's the point when you don't spend money? And the banks came to the wall. I'm telling you, there's no one here, there's 28% of the high-risk plasmas, so they're not stupid enough to go to 50% of the high-risk plasma now. Return capital to the home states of Germany, France to these Masonic financial institutions, only you laugh it is true, and Croatia is sucked out, they have nothing to do with these banks and that banking capital here what to do. and we must rely on the HBOR to which the Croatian state in the budget gives money in order to finance industrialisation or re-industrisation. And the banks won't re-industrize it because your SDP sold the banks. It's all the governments, but your government sold the banks for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82761	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82762	Thank you very much. In fact, my colleague, you said a little while ago that banks share the fate of the economy. Well, the banks didn't share their fates, and the banks made a billion kuna last year. But I had a feeling earlier that you would cry when you said that interest income fell to banks from 21 billion and 419 to 19 billion and 801 million, and when you look at a little and the fees still increased by 4 billion and 161 million to 4 billion and 276 million. So banks would be logical to share the fate of Croatia and the fate of the economy, therefore the CNB law must also be amended. But something else happened here, it's about classification and booking costs in the last year where the classification was increased by group B and C with new 2 billion kunas. So that's the problem with why a smaller profit has been shown, but I think it's cosmetic. But we had examples in Croatia where certain banks were sent into bankruptcy, and later it was a bad assessment that the banks charged good property and were actually in a balance of passive and active property. Therefore, policies must change and it would be logical for banks to feel what is happening in the economy, but always this wave that we feel today in our population and on the ground and in the economy that it is passing usually a year on to banks and takes time to spill over. And what's only a year, we'll see for sure in the CNB reports where the bank reports are going to be even worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82763	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82764	Dear colleague Bubalo, therefore I have stressed that the banks since 2013, and thus will continue to share the fate of the economy and that is fine, and so it must be. Namely, I told the famous one that there are no good banks without a economy or a good economy without good banks, so that relationship is causual. The fact that over the past years the banks have made significant profits, we would say, while the economy has been falling, GDP has fallen. However, the profit has now come down to only a billion kuna. I also agreed in the debate and stressed that this is because of this new advertising of risk or bad loans that had to be made reservations. So because of these reservations, that profit was reduced. But we can't say that now that the situation that was good for the banks hasn't changed, it's changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82765	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82766	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I can see that I would almost say a little as a wretch comes your debate on the reduced profits of commercial banks in Croatia that amount to only one billion kuna in 2013, alone. And before that, you mentioned that this profit amounted to 15 billion kuna over a few years. And then when we say that banks should share the fate of the economy, the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia then there is one disproportionate in that. I wanted to ask you, if you know how to answer me, whether the banks have reduced their managers' millions of bonuses and millions of kunas, these managers acquire from debt or executive procedures, etc. The blocked citizens and companies, who have more than 300 thousand citizens, and the companies over 80,000 and on the basis of interest share their bonuses with millions? Is this the kind of bank situation that brought down those bonuses? I'm convinced it's not, and here you may have more information. So they continue to act the way they acted before and on the torture of Croatian citizens and hunchbacks, obtaining millions of bonuses from these same managers. And in addition, Duje said well that those parent banks in foreign countries, as the Masonic said, they invest money that enters through these banks to them into the economy of other countries that then export to Croatia. And so imports are encouraged in Croatia, and domestic production stands. The banks do not share the fate of the citizens or the economy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82767	And we're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82768	Thank you. So when a man finds himself in a difficult or lifeless situation and loses confidence in his own strength, then he somehow starts blaming everything and then they're all to blame. He simply has no faith in himself anymore, and for the condition in which he finds himself blaming everything and those who really had something to do with it and those who had nothing to do with it. Similarly, the state of Croatian society could be transferred at the moment. Croatian society is in a very difficult situation today, and for many Croatian citizens, it is practically an unexplainable situation. In this situation, both these Croatian citizens and Croatian society once and collectively accuses everything in order and seeks the culprit on all sides regardless of who this was about. Whether, it is no longer just the Croatian Government, the CNB is there always, the fiscal authority is there always, the Croatian Parliament is always there, there are mayors, mayors of municipalities, directors of public enterprises, they are officials on counters. So we are in some way at this stage in which Croatian society today enters the stage of mutually accusing each other and to Croatian citizens we are actually all guilty together. In this way, the question is whether any of us in politics or public service can call themselves successful. Could the CNB be successful because it's not worse? Could the governor of the CNB be successful at a time when the state was in the sixth year of recession, regardless of what might have been worse, but maybe it shouldn't have been. So at this point in some way everyone in their part of responsibility and we who are in opposition even though we are not acting in power, but we Croatian citizens are paying us as officials in fact bearing responsibility both in front of Croatian citizens and in front of the Croatian society for the situation in which the Croatian state is located. And those who have a direct impact on the situation in the Croatian economy, the team is actually more responsible. It is clear and clear that in the situation in which we are located, weapons or means are often no longer chosen and tried. On the other hand, that's understandable. Is the problem for the Croatian economy if counterpart Grubisic and the Croatian state, if my colleague Grubisic and I have three times the average salary, Vice President Zgrebec, for example four and a half times the average or governor of the CNB, is five and a half times the salary of the average net Croatian salary? And would if we had paid 1 kuna and all here together 1 kuna that changed anything in Croatian society? The objectively would not, therefore, nothing can change and the governor of the CNB can have 100,000 kunas or we 50 which, of course, neither we nor we or we can have 1000 kunas salary and he can have a mobile or travel or not travel and nothing will change, objectively at this time to the Croatian economy. But what Croatian citizens are reacting to us is the perception that we leave about ourselves and the perception that Croatian politics, officials who are in this policy, are mostly those who act as authorities, or those who lead monetary policy leave towards Croatian citizens and Croatian society, which I say many today are practically in a hopeless situation, but truly hopeless situation. And how do we respond to the hopelessness in which Croatian citizens are located? We respond very often to our dealings with ourselves, some trivial negotiations or mutual advances without, and very often without any attempt or desire to actually see this situation constructively or to try to talk about what Croatian society, what Croatian economic policy levers, monetary or fiscal can offer. And so today, the governor somehow implicates the responsibility of fiscal policy and yesterday the finance minister implies the responsibility of monetary policy to us. He was sitting on the other side yesterday. Of course, in this situation, even Croatian citizens when they see that not even those two levers of some economic policy that should give some excessive answers more or less often transfer that ball of responsibility that Croatian citizens are then also beheaded. The question of why reforms fail. It is my opinion that reforms fail because there is no policy. So this government has no politics. The reforms that took place were usually small partial steps in those moments when they experienced a lack of budget or when a small matter could be changed. Where's the politics? Where is the economic policy system of the Republic of Croatia? Where's the system? Every measure has fallen, every measure has been applied. In these 3, 2.5 years, there's nothing left. So how, then, will reforms, which reforms, do those in the public sector, do those in the tax system, do they wander and demand that have been happening continuously these few years? They're on the trail and those previous wanderings that we understand each other. What the governor of the CNB, regardless of what may not be his primary task, must understand that he will have to assume the responsibility of a public official who will have to assume the responsibility of a public official who, regardless of whether he is not a politician, will occasionally meet with Croatian citizens and indeed meet with facts that cannot be read in the monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports of the CNB. It will have to start to participate not only in this way as it has participated through monetary policy creation, but it will really have to become, see the actual state itself with its own eyes, not to read it anywhere, and this way it will see it, not even have to go too far away from the CNB building and try as the holder of monetary authority, one institution that has the potential to do so in some way and in the rest of the term of this government or with the next government that will come, act as certain things, to finally create Croatia's economic policy, anti-recession policy. This government has so far had only defined world-wide policy, but economic policy. All these reforms weren't really anything because I say they were some partial moves that didn't bring anything. And when we talked about this debt slavery problem, why are we going back to it? Not because they want to manipulate the fates or use the fates of these people, but because a good part of these people is in no way responsible for the condition they have found themselves in. Of course, we can't share 10,000 euros of vouchers to Croatian citizens or that we can wipe out debts, but we can find ways to protect a home, that people who have no solution, but no one in life, end up with their children on the street in a country that has tens of thousands of empty properties and that these properties are taken by banks who don't need these properties at all. And that is also your responsibility and you can help find answers to how to improve and facilitate this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82769	Replica, Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82770	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Djurovic, here is only for the introduction of 51 billion kunas of unpaid tax claims and 45 billion kunas of indifference are not petty. Politics exists. Yesterday and today, you wanted to say here in your debate that yesterday and today we are listening to a different song. We're actually listening to the same story yesterday and today. Yesterday there was a talk here about one of the major problems of the Croatian economy being a low level of capitalisation. He talked about it yesterday when we talked about financial policy, when it came to reducing the taxation of reinvested profits, thus increasing the capitalisation of society so that the economy could move towards investment. Today the governor said clearly here, the money has, so I at least realized, so the money has, the other thing is that entrepreneurs can't get it. By introducing the Croatian Liabilities Register in 2007 I think it started, here I did not see, unfortunately, or I did not see in the report how well the structure is, in fact, in length, by the deadline of the credit obligations of public enterprises, so that it could be seen in fact where the difficulties occurred. It is said that actually before the recession because of these internal debts, companies have already been in difficulty. So in this part when we talk about CNB maintaining liquidity in the banking system, price stability and exchange rates, and we know that every exporter will tell you that the kuna is overrated, that this course is not good. However, why the CNB and why is the former governor and now, why is the course being held because precisely because of credit obligations primarily of citizens and then the business sector would put any change of course at an even greater risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82771	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82772	My colleague, every policy rests on a vision, on a clearly defined idea of what you want to do. You've shown in a worldly sense that you have a very clear vision of society as you wish. She's different from mine, but if you have the majority to do it, it's legitimate. But in the economy and economic policy you have shown that you have no vision, that you do not know how to reconcile the social democratic position of your party, the reality of Croatian society in recession and the reality of economic relations within the European Union as they rule and there are simply no visions. There are measures here, measures there, and so is the time. The so-called reforms that are actually very small, a little pull over there, pull over there, so we'll see what God gives us, more or less cosmetics. We don't have the stability of the system, the stability of the tax policy, we don't have any systematic measures to stimulate economic growth, we don't have any systematic measures to grow investment, and finally thank you, but I don't need 30 minutes to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82773	Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82774	Thank you, Vice President. As far as cosmetics are concerned, I think the only cosmetics are dealing with these in the HDSSB and these measures that my colleague calls cosmetics, I think that's a little bit and a little dirty. I will only list some of the measures that have led to our first economic growth, industrial production growth in the last five months since 2009. First of all, profit tax is 0% if it is reinvested. The VAT has been reduced from 25% to 10% for hospitality and tourism, which is a direct boost to the strongest industrial branch in the Republic of Croatia. The threshold for entering the VAT system has been increased from 85,000 to 230 000. Orders were introduced in the payment of contributions, HBOR was recapitalised with 600 million kuna for capital and 150 for interest subsidies and together with the CNB export programme released 6 billion kuna. The burden on the economy has been reduced, contributions have been reduced 2%, forest fees and monumental rents have been reduced that have burdened the economy. An increased personal deduction to determine a tax base, thus directly increasing the non-taxable share of wages and pensions. Of course a little, but significant. And at the end of the five months, industrial production is growing in a row, five months in a row. In 2009, she grew up last time, and you HDSSB can laugh when you come to show off in the county you rule, we'll congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82775	I didn't notice if you picked up for an answer. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82776	So, fellow, as far as that first of yours is concerned, I'm gonna call for a speech on the mountain. It says by the measure that you measure and you will be measured and the court you judge will be tried, so I don't want any further as far as this goes. And as for the contents of this replica, so what can I tell you? You mentioned a health contribution, you mentioned a tax on tourism services that were later returned because it was seen that they were unsustainable at those times when they came, or that there was no at all, there was no serious economic policy behind them, but they were actually some measures that were so partially taken and we'll see what would be. And then we see that it doesn't work, so then we go back and we're actually going back to that problem of instability, uncertainty, those 30 and some changes to the tax system that's happened since the start of this government's mandate. That's exactly what we're going back to. And then to the fact that no investor knows by the end of this government's term whether 30 more will happen. Is that incentive he's got on the new employee today gonna be worth tomorrow? That's the problem. And of course your perfectly legitimate right to spread climate optimism, and that's good for both you and your voters, and I'm glad you're doing it and it should be done. It is not necessary to discourage its voters, however, all those who assess the state of the Croatian economy quite objectively account for analyses that unfortunately give a picture of what they give. And I honestly wish you were right and things were going in the right direction, but they're not going.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82777	The final word of the governor of the Croatian National Bank of Dr. Boris Vujčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82778	Thank you very much. Thanks for the debate. I'm going to try to briefly sum up some answers to some groups of questions that have come up, but I'm going to try to connect some things that I can connect. It was a matter of the first resolution of the Croatian banking system in half of the 1990s. It's a question that's been going on for a long time, but there's a lot of debates that kind of relate to whether it's good that we privatized the banks, whether it's not good that we privatized the banks, how much it cost, what the results are. I can't talk about the recovery of the Croatian banking system, because when it happened I was still a student in America, but from what I read after I came back it was that most of that recovery of what I see today was called the recovery of the Croatian banking system was essentially a recovery of the savings of Croatian citizens in banks and a company in those banks through old foreign currency savings and large bonds. In other words, if it hadn't been done then people wouldn't have gotten anything out of their savings or the company would have practically gone bankrupt as well. And you need to look at it in that context. If you invest in something that is a systemic problem, and this systemic problem is also a good reminder of why it was created in the context of the discussions that are being held today and which were being conducted here today, because you had a situation in which you had a high level at that time of deutschmarking, currency substitutions and in which you did not have a currency clause that was banned and what happened then that banks were giving, they had on the passive side of the balance sheet as a heavy savings asset, and on the active side of the balance sheet as loans were non-indexed credit. At the time of the devaluation, the devaluation policy was very common if you remember the 1980s and early 1990s. In this way, the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, i.e. the Yugoslav economy, was sought. In the '80s without any success, it was never a successful policy, but what it led to. It led to a foreign exchange problem in the banks' balance sheets that the people who held the foreign exchange savings could no longer get their foreign exchanges back and so the banks came into trouble and had to be rescheduled as all countries rescheduled as we saw when their core banking system got into trouble. And then they sell, they sell for what they're worth. If you go with the same logic you can wonder why we haven't sold shipyards for hundreds of millions of euros in terms of how many years the money has been invested in shipyards. Because it's not worth that much. You can sell for as much as you can sell. Now, is it better to have state banks or private banks that I think the question has been resolved that we no longer have to discuss it at all? For years, some claimed we were wrong. I wasn't back then. I was a student back then. But by reading history and knowing something about the economy and what I see happening today, these objections are that why we privatized the banks, that it would be better if we had looked up to our fellow Slovenians and kept the state-owned banks. Time has shown. In Slovenia, you see what happened to the state banks. You know what happened in Croatia with the only state bank significant we had. We still had to recapitalize it twice, and we're gonna need a third time. It tells you whether to privatize banks or not, or rather to remain state-owned. I think we know enough history that we don't have to, our own history of our own Croatian history, that we don't have to ask ourselves that question anymore. And let's look at other countries, look at Slovenia and you don't have to, look at Germany which banks were in trouble now during the Landesbank crisis. In Spain, which banks were in trouble, Caia, not private banks. In Austria, someone mentioned today, Hypo Alpe Adria banka state banka, not private banka. I think it solves all the dilemmas that anyone else might have. As for the discussion of MP Dalic, I fully agree with her, and I am glad she said that what the CNB can do and only needs to do is maintain macroeconomic stability and the stability of the banking system. And it's going back to the broader context of this debate where we're wondering what else the CNB can do? The law defines what the tasks of the CNB and the CNB Act, which was passed by the Parliament, define which instruments were put into our hands to carry out our legal task. In economic theory, the hypothesis of Nobel laureate Tinbergen is well known, which says very clearly that for every goal that someone sets before you must give you an instrument. You can't achieve a goal without an instrument. And that's why the central banks laws everywhere, not only in Croatia, are made in such a way that we just have instruments for those goals that we've been given. We can't achieve other goals that we don't have instruments for and for which someone else has instruments. As regards the CNB Act, he also defines very clearly some of the things that have been discussed today, the CNB does not listen to the Government or should listen to the Government but must not receive from anyone any guidance on what it is doing or may even inform anyone in advance of what it will do because of the nature of business and sensitive market information and the banking system that we oversee. And so it must be. What are we? Technocrats. What else would we be? We are not chosen by the people, we are technocrats who can do their job exclusively within the mandate that you gave us as a Parliament by passing the HNB Act and we do so. And we're doing it in what way? In the interest of Mrs Kosor of the Republic of Croatia. So we do not support inflation as a low, stable and banking system is stable because it is contrary to the interest of the Croatian people but precisely because it is in the interest of Croatia and all Croatian citizens and because we have the instruments to do so. That is why the Assembly does not accept or reject the CNB Report, but it is being reported and kept in mind. So these are some basic things that were established in the early 2000s and strengthened by the adoption of the new CNB Law in 2010, and I was also the deputy chief negotiator, and I also negotiated the law directly. And the law also answers the question that is also asked whether the CNB can buy Croatian public debt and then negotiate with the state a grace period for three years? He can't. It says in the law that he can't. And that's some kind of acquis of European law. We don't have a lot of restrictions, and today the same thing has been mentioned about some of the restrictions that we may have in the conduct of monetary policy because we haven't entered the euro area. The moment we enter, then more monetary policy will not be in our hands than the European Central Bank, but so far we don't have a lot of restrictions, that's one of them. We can't finance the public deficit. Why is such a provision in the law that you have passed as the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia? Well, because history has shown that monetary funding of deficits by the central bank is bad. Otherwise, no such provision would be made in the Central Bank Act. Let's remember the '80s again, because it's always good to learn from history. So, not only did you have banks so-called banks. Currency mismatch or the difference between active and passive foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange exposures than you also had a situation in which the central bank cashed the deficit. Look at the beginning of the '90s you still have a central bank that finances government deficits monetaryally. What did that lead to? To high inflation and frequent devaluations. Did that lead to economic growth? Did this lead to strengthening Croatia's competitiveness? It's not. So again, we have history that shows what is good and what is not good. That is why we learn from it and do what is in the interest of Croatia. Structural reforms, I won't talk much about it because ever since I became governor, I've been talking too much about structural reforms so they're already asking me what structural reforms are, and I say there are hundreds of them, not one or two. If you look at the OECD recommendations for Greece 300 structural reforms of which Parliament is slowly implementing parts of the package. As for what the CNB may need to do more as was said to be more analyzed, I think we're doing very much already. We are doing analyses of labour markets, the flexibility of the labour market we published, an analysis of the impact of EU entry on the budget that will now be published, an analysis of structural reforms. So, not only are the narrow things that the central bank is doing but we are also much wider than that, and we are one of the few central banks in the EU that have published fiscal forecasts. But again, we must be aware that we must stick to the mandate, we cannot go beyond our mandate. And we'll keep doing that. Within the mandate, we'll talk about what we think is right. It was a question of one foreign savings, that we have part of non-residents saving in Croatia and they are saving not because they are not taxed savings, but that they are saving at a difference in interest rates, at an arbitration rate. Interest rates on deposits in Croatia are still significantly more than interest rates on deposits abroad. And that is the basic reason why we saw the inflow of foreign savings in Croatian banks. There was a question of a respected Bubal MP about how a new savings tax might affect that, it's impossible to say until we know what it will be, what it will be, whether there will be minimum costs under which it is not taxed. The moment we see each other, we can give some sort of assessment even though it's always ungrateful to predict it in advance. From those initial proposals that have arisen, I have already made it public that our estimates are that there will be no major change if it was applied as initially announced means that there will be no major overflows of deposits. As for our forecasts of GDP, that's 15.7., 15.7. we're going out with our forecasts so I can't talk about it today. We should have had a week before, but you know that in 30.06, there was a revision of the data on the external exchange of Croatian exports and imports. As it is due to EU entry, it is moving to the survey collection of data on exports and imports by waiting for this revision before we go with the forecast for 2014 and 2015. Much has been said about deleveraging, and that is why monetary policy is not effective in terms of what we call the balance sheet recession. What's the balance sheet recession? The balance sheet recession is too high of both the private and public sectors, or one of those two. The normal character of monetary policy is that in a situation where it wants to boost credit expansion, as we want it to now, it affects that interest rates fall which we have achieved and secure high liquidity. However, if there is a given overhead, too much debt in the private or public sector, and the private sector before it crashes into budgetary constraints rather than public, always, then the private sector must be disbursed. The private sector in Croatia is the most in debt in Central Eastern Europe, 130% of GDP, 40% of the population, 90% of the countries. So Bulgaria's highest level. And that's a typical example of the balance sheet recession. You can do whatever you want with interest rates, you can give as much money as you want, but if you're already over-indebted, it's not the way out of the debt problem, as Angela Merkel said, rightly increasing the debt. You can't get out of the debt problem with an even bigger debt, but you need to reduce the debt first and it's painful, and that's what you see in Croatia, it's deleveraging. But that's because we accumulated too many levels of debt before the crisis. And there's no other way now but to go into that deleveraging. And that is why the chance to encourage GDP is not on the demand side, not on encouraging additional borrowing, but on structural reforms to enable investment, or production that must precede new consumption. We can't spend before we start producing, so we have to focus completely on it, but I'm saying it's not something that can be done directly by the Croatian National Bank. There was also a question of the decline in ratings, i.e. the Croatian National Bank's response to the decline in ratings. You can look at everything, all the reports of the last 5 years of rating agency, FIC, ESP, MUDIS and see ratings of rating agencies that are positive sides of the Croatian economy, which are negative. If you find that there is any negative monetary policy supervisory or regulatory policy, then we'll know how to answer that. But they're all listed as positive sides, like... are listed other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we should probably do something there to improve the rating. As to whether the Croatian National Bank, to say the same, is guilty of euroisation, is not at all. Euroisation is the consequence, again to get back to the beginning, deutschmarking, so we have become an independent state with a stake in German brands over 90%. So she's smaller now than she was when we became independent. When did the deutschmarking start? In 1965, with the border opening, when Tito opened the borders of Yugoslavia, when people went outside, began bringing foreign exchanges and then with frequent devaluations, and high inflations. People have learned that because of high inflation and frequent devaluations, dinar is not a good tool to keep value and have moved on to the German brand. So we have a tradition now from 65 to 2014, so we have 50 years of currency substitution so it has nothing to do with the CNB. On the Swiss franc, you mentioned this, I was here at this time in 2005 for this speaker, defending the annual report, defending myself, not defending myself, presenting the annual report of the Croatian National Bank and warning in this Assembly about the risks of credit in Swiss francs. Here, he remembers counsel Shuker. Did anyone ever back me up then? Nobody. In fact, Vujčić has been told that he wants to deny cheap loans to Croatian citizens, and then an elephant came from the flea. But I'm sure I don't need to be asked about it. As far as, well, it may be that, as far as the inflation rate is concerned, 4%, it is..., but it refers to the European Central Bank, meaning an increase..., it talks in... now at the European Central Bank's assembly and they had a long discussion about it. The problem is that the increase from 2 to 4% reduces the probability of hitting the zero lower... means that interest rates come to zero and if you don't have a high minimum reserve rate like the CNB has, then in that situation you no longer have room for... monetary policies. We can constantly continue to reduce the minimum reserve rate and thus secure 0% liquidity. The European Central Bank has 1% of the minimum reserve rate, according to which when it hits the zero lower... as well as the FED, then there is no additional option, so its idea is, if we raise the target inflation from 2 to 4%, it is less likely that we'll hit the zero lower..., but zero lower... means zero interest rate will hit the empirically every 35 years on Monday. And the question is, is the increase in inflation tax in 35 years to avoid one episode to come to 0% is worth it? Most economists don't think so. So, I think 90% of economists will tell you that it's not worth going for..., especially because it shows that if you raise by 2 percentage points inflation rate, the variability of inflation is increasing. If inflation is growing, then economic agents on the market include it in long-term interest rates, which increases the interest rate it operates with, so to speak. But there are obstacles amongst the professions about it. The banking union was mentioned. We don't want to enter the banking union as a CNB yet. Why? Because... it is not in Croatia's interest to enter the banking union. Why is this not at this point in Croatia's interest? Because we have to give up the supervision of large groups, and in return we still don't get enough. So, if the banking union were to be complete, as it was imagined, if it consisted of a joint supervisory mechanism, a joint resolution system that has enough money to help banks in problems and joint deposit insurance, and here they can again pull the parallel to that foreign savings. It is not bad to get foreign savings we just have to be careful that any savings coming to Croatia or which Croatian banks abroad offer increases the implicit obligations for the Croatian deposit insurance system. So if we had a complete European scheme of common... deposits, then as governor, I would suggest to the government that we join the banking union. Since that is not the case, I do not think it would be a good move at this time, but Croatia will certainly enter the banking union on the way into the Eurozone. But it's not time yet, I still think we should stay out of that system. Yeah, as for banks, I always say, just banks do their jobs, we do our jobs. The CNB doesn't sit on the Banking Credit Board when they decide who they give credit to, they're paid for the job to decide who they give credit to and they sign the risk. People sometimes wrongly... and also some consulting houses, I must admit, to banks sometimes claim that they have a product, that credit is a product. I say no, credit is not a product, it's not an ashtray, it's not this glass, it's not a tie, it's a risk. You, when you give credit,... the risk and that's the important difference between what the bank is doing and what someone who produces something is doing, and that's how this product should be treated. The moment the banks started treating the loans as products, and they did before the crisis, then we had such a high expansion of the loan where the sales were encouraged,... How much you sold the laptop, the glasses, the tie, so you were... you got so much premium, bonus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you have, and then you forget, look, but it's a risk, it's not a product, it's a different characteristic of it. So it's good for me that we're back to the real evaluation of what banks can or should do, we've raised reservations, that's the policy of correcting values precisely because we're more truthfully showing the bank's results because what... is that because of the low value of the reservation you're showing high profits and paying off that profit, and we've been attacked. You remember that a year ago we were still under attack for why we were raising... Now we will see after assessing the quality of the assets carried out by the Central Bank European whether we were right in the CNB or not. I don't have a problem, and that's when I claimed we were right, and now I'm saying we're right. And soon it will show again who was right. And nothing, for the end maybe to say what I said at the festival of the 20th anniversary of the kuna, is frustrating after six years of recession or stagnation and normally to ask ourselves, and what else can monetary policy do? But if you imagine you have a picture of the Croatian economy held by four people on the wall, one holding tight, three being loose. Then you have to wonder what kind of vision you need to see, because if you see this one that's already envious, then you might as well crack that one, then the whole picture falls. So, you should see those who aren't envious, not the ones who are still. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82779	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82780	Thank you very much. In fact, the governor had just expressed his opinion and opinion. The population over-indebted and to debunk the population and record it, the population from 128 billion came to 123 billion. Also, companies with 121 billion debts came to 107 billion. In fact, it is said that the population is over-indebted, I would say more that the population is unemployed, the population and our fellow citizens are getting paid and dropping jobs, that's our population's problem. But what is crucial is what needs to be detected today in the Croatian Parliament, which is the detachment of the state. It is not there, the state is in debt from day to day, the bell rings at the alarm and that European bell, and it will be painful when we have to deprive the Croatian state. In fact, our citizens are subdued, businesses are also, but what they do not feel is not felt by the government's policy and does not understand the government's policy that simply our borrowing must be said stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82781	Would you like to answer that? I'm closing the debate. We'll make a statement about the report most likely tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82782	Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the Proposal for a Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2013. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes with 106 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour and 3 abstentions were accepted, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82783	Now we're going to skip point 9 because the minister has some obligation and we're going to go back to it in the afternoon. And we will discuss point 10 under: - (A)A proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media and B) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media. The proposer of the decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on Electronic Media provides for the Croatian Parliament to appoint and resolve the President and members of the Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received a proposal for an act. The introduction will explain the proposal by Deputy Culture Minister Professor Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82784	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The Council for Electronic Media has seven members, one of whom is the President of the Council. Members of the council are just to remind Mrs Mirjana Rakic, Mr Ernest Strik, Mr Damir Hajduk, Mrs Susana Kunac, Mrs Vesna Roller, Mrs Gordana Simonovic and Mr Robert Tomljenović. By decision of the Croatian Parliament of 5 June 2009 at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Damir Hajduk and Mr Strik, members of the Council for Electronic Media were appointed at a time of five years but their term of office expires on 5 June 2014, pursuant to Article 68 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media members of the Electronic Media Council shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, on the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 24 April 2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media also issued a public invitation to appoint two members of the Electronic Media Council and to collect candidates' applications. The ministry of culture received a total of 29 applications from candidates by considering earlier all these applications, the government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to appoint Damir Hajduk and Alemku Lisinski as members of the Council for Electronic Media. Since they meet all these conditions and are qualified for the performance of the tasks held by the Council for Electronic Media in its portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82785	Thank you. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82786	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. This is one in a series of changes and additions to the media law. We are already bored in this Croatian Assembly to warn of an announced media strategy which has not seen the light of day for 2.5 years, despite the fact that the Ministry of Culture had not previously formed the Department of Media, hired people and a few months ago we could see a statement from the head of the department that the media strategy would be in the process next week or in the public debate. Discussing the appointment issues constantly in any way, and not having these media strategies becomes already tiring. And then every time we don't have people here who are responsible, first of all I think about the minister, after that to Mr. Zivkovic who runs that department and we can't possibly get an answer to what's going to happen. It doesn't really make any sense anymore. For almost three years, it's my replica. All this is nice of you to say a solution decision, but the question is, of course, you were thinking about a media strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82787	You know it wasn't a replica, but you used that institute. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Suncana Glavak and counterpart Jasen Mesic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82788	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. We have no honor in welcoming the minister. We haven't seen the Minister of Culture in the Croatian Parliament for a long time. We know her character, occasionally showing up on the screen, but I think it would be good if the minister came in front of the MPs and explained some of the suggestions coming from her ministry. So looking at this item on the agenda, we skipped the big steps of a few points because it's so much work in our ministries that the ministers never get here in time, and I guess they'll join us a little later. Looking at this situation where Croatia has over 300 000 unemployed, when almost 50% of young people are unemployed in the Republic of Croatia of the highest importance at the moment, it seems that the appointment of two members of the Council for Electronic Media is, however, insisting that this point is being discussed despite the fact that the parent working body of the Media Committee has not discussed these proposals at all. In this way, we ask ourselves again, so Article 54 of our newly formed Rules of Procedure says that the working body of the Assembly is required to report its opinions, views, remarks and proposals to the Assembly. The working body is in this case the parent board, the Media Committee and we therefore violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, simply imposing this item on the agenda. Then it is best to remove the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, to remove the post of president who gets an even higher salary or post of vice president who gets 1700 or something kuna for it and not to bother the state budget with these fees. My colleagues and colleagues, such insistence is not good and is repeated from time to time. So when we haven't had the opportunity to discuss the proposed members on the board, we are discussing the beginning of the 2012 talk of forsaking the election of members of the Council of Electronic Media. We are again warning what we did back then in 2012 that one of the council members was in conflict of interest and that despite this, the ruling majority confirmed its appointment as a council. That we were right, that we did not say this for daily political reasons, and the solution of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which on 21 February led the decision to initiate the procedure for the conflict of interest against the behavioural officer Gordana Simonovic, members of the Council for Electronic Media and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, because the commission concluded that, from the same behaviour of those duties, he was paid to act as a member of the Council for Electronic Media and not a small salary, between 13 and 14 thousand kuna and a fee for membership in the Governing Council of HINA. My colleagues and colleagues in February ordered that the situation be resolved within 15 days. Until today, this situation has not been resolved. Despite the Commission's decision, the Resorient Ministry, the Council or the Administrative Council of HINA and ultimately the Government does not care about this decision and simply does not respect the law. And instead of resolving the situation around a member of the council which has been confirmed and in conflict of interest, the Government is proposing two new members and this member of the council remains in two functions. According to some information, Mrs. HINA's Board has just frozen the payment of compensation, because she is therefore employed by the council and is receiving compensation at the HINA Board of Directors. I'd like the ministry gentlemen to tell us why no one from the ministry has responded to this situation since February. Why don't you gentlemen get rid of it? So it is not disputed that two council members have expired, it is disputed that two new people, who, based on their résumés, have to be appointed to be the best or probably most similar and placed in a very important media regulatory body, must be appointed to the salary of 14 thousand kuna. We don't have the right information, we may have it because I remind you we didn't have anyone and where to ask because the board didn't discuss whether other candidates had any chance at all in the Ministry of Culture in front of this famous media strategy department that doesn't exist or that Mr. Zivkovic presented his qualifications as well as why they ran, so we don't have information at all, or just on the basis of, agreements and interventions, new council members are proposing. I remind you, the Electronic Media Council controls the vast media market, controls a large part of the money. I remind you it's about the money that's being paid into the Pluralism Fund from the HTV fee we're all paying. So, I remind you, it doesn't matter who sits in an independent media regulator and how they do their job. So, at a time when we're dealing with staffing, there's still no media strategy, every time they tell us there will be, last year it was by the end of December 2013, then it'll be in February of this year, so it'll probably be in April, and it'll probably be somewhere when the mandate expires and they'll say they didn't arrive. Therefore, I warn my colleagues and colleagues once again, nor could the home working body carry out its part of the work that is written in the Rules of Procedure, nor did we have the opportunity to ask questions. Obviously, we serve here only to vote something, to give someone confidence and not really wonder what we're doing. Once again, I remind you that one member of the council is in conflict of interest and that it remains a member of the council and that we should appoint two more new people, regardless of the eclectic conflict of interest. That is why I call you when we have not already come across the understanding here at the chair to do this point as the Rules of Procedure and the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to think about how you will vote because we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community cannot give support in this way and we cannot agree that at this moment in Croatia instead of talking about the economy, employment, unemployment, everything that is sinking, we are only discussing staffing at the 13 hours in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82789	Comrade Mesic, will you continue? ... But a sequel on behalf of the club. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You won't continue on behalf of the club? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Clear Mesic, replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82790	Dear fellow Glavak, you have well said that this point was not on the home working body, or the Media Committee. Says the President of the Parliament when I asked him orally that there was no time to call the board. I remind you colleagues that first we had a break of three weeks or more because it wasn't the government, four weeks correcting me, you're right, because the government wasn't able to send any legal proposals, so we practically had nothing to discuss. Then we had a 10-day break because I guess there wasn't enough law, and now suddenly there's no time to discuss it at home because if I'm familiar with the board president, he's on his way. Okay. So is it possible that we could really ask ourselves a question, so why are the working bodies really serving? What's terribly interesting is that apart from us from the HDZ Club on this, no other club has anything to say. So they don't mind colleagues, or what it wasn't discussed on the home working body, or what there is no media strategy, or what one of the members is like you said in an eclectic conflict of interest. And they don't mind that we object, I can still understand that because they never showed a certain understanding for us as an opposition, but let them look at the report of the Reporter without Borders, which shows them that Croatia is constantly falling on a scale of media freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82791	Replication response, Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82792	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Mesic, you're right. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore the public with indignity rejects any role of the Croatian Parliament. Do you not see how people perceive us? Is it not because of this kind of work that you are embarrassed to say that you are a parliamentary representative? Isn't that a shame? I think it's a shame. And he'll say again next week we're going on vacation. According to what fellow Mesic has been proposed, we will not even work until the Constitution of a certain deadline, but only until the 11th, so there will be no sitting. Well, that's not our HDZ fault. ... Yeah, well, you can just put your heads down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, aren't you uncomfortable when you say you're a parliamentary representative, and people say you have big wages? Well, I just told my colleague Mesic, two members of the Council will have 14,000 kuna net wages, that's what this is about. What decisions do we make? What's behind that? I'm sorry, on this side of the assembly, we're embarrassed to see this kind of work, disrespecting the procedure you've brought yourself. Is that not inconclusive?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82793	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82794	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Glavak, you're surprised the government doesn't respect the law. So what surprises you? So yesterday, we discussed the report on the implementation of the state budget and at the same time what the State's audit said about the report, in which it states very clearly which laws were broken, which all the laws of the government violated, and that was repeatedly mentioned there. Absolutely no one is blushing because of it, but absolutely no one will suffer any consequences. In fact, it's likely that tomorrow the hands will be obediently raised for that very report. So why are you surprised that the law is not respected in this case? Well, that's the usual way this government works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82795	Please focus on the replicas that are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Replication response, Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82796	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear academic Rainer, somehow you know I still think, not to be surprised, but to be embarrassed. And exactly, you're right, no one will suffer the consequences of everything the State Audit said, just as no one has the consequences for a whole series of SDP officials who have been in conflict since the start of their mandate. Well, there's the Minister of Resort, so I'm going to remind Minister Jakovina, and then the Chief Director, so I don't have to say a whole series of officials. And what did the Prime Minister respond to? Well, the law may not be very good, but we have the opportunity to change it. Comrade Reiner, that's the answer to all that. Or maybe for that "and I broke a pipe" thing to organize a 060, that's all we're missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82797	Yesterday I commented on such statements and the way of the debate, and I don't think that's the level to be discussed in the assembly. We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Jasen Mesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82798	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I won't apologize, there's no reason. The Council for Electronic Media is in accordance with the Media Act and according to the Law on Electronic Media established as an independent regulator, so a regulator that should monitor everything that happens on the media scene, including HRT, including local radio and television stations, and including anything that is broadcast through radio dysfunction into the ether. If this regulator is formed as an independent, which we were talking about when the new president of the Council was elected, when Mr. Levak resigned. If its main function is to be independent, then the Ministry of Culture should have opened a new competition for all members because the regulator is not acting independently. It does not behave independently and you can see it from the report of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television, where the Programme Council, which we unanimously accepted from colleagues and colleagues, writes that Croatian Radio Television has not fulfilled all the programming obligations it has signed with the contract of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the basis for the payment of the subscription. If she hasn't met, then an independent regulator should point out and intervene, and she didn't. And if it is still an independent regulator, then all 25 reported in this competition should be invited to talk, to hear their views which are their main opinion and main problems in this area in the Republic of Croatia. And what I would personally expect that independent regulator to give certain inputs to a potential media strategy and also to make new legislation. That's not what a colleague and a colleague say. You know why? Because the Council is currently most concerned with how to share more than 30 million kunas coming from the so-called “. ” Fund for pluralism of the media and are in fact part of the subscription that collects Croatian broadcasters. These funds are shared partly on local television stations, partly on local radio stations and the function of these funds is to encourage pluralism in the media space. In addition, in recent amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, a syntagma appeared that does not exist anywhere else in Europe, which is the financing of so-called funding. non-profit media, which by the way wakes up in parallel with another item called funding for non-profit media in the ministry's item, the budget item of the culture ministry. And then yesterday, a new finance minister comes to us and tells us how everything is done on economic recovery, how he is careful not to throw money away, how he is trying to reach unemployment, how to introduce a number of measures to fix it, while pushing local and radio and television stations that employ nearly 3,000 people, at the same time funding them from the state budget, the media whose only obligation is to be non-profit. So it doesn't matter the quality of the content at all, it doesn't say anything. All he writes is a commitment to be nonprofit. And then the independent regulator, of course, has no other ambition to deal with anything else, but that when he collects programs from all these media, he simply splits those money apart by not doing his personal job as a regulator on the media market. My colleagues and colleagues, as I said in the opening note, would have been good if we could all discuss this on the parent committee, as my colleague Glavak said. This is too serious. We don't really have to bring it down for a real debate of position and opposition. Look at the reports of reporters without borders that clearly point to you and black to white. Every time we repeat this situation over and over again the Ministry of Culture puts someone, suggests it, can be less good, more good. But the fact is that an independent regulator doesn't do his job well in this way. It is also a fact that we do not know what the proposed members of the Electronic Media Council will advocate, whether they will support such a media system in the Republic of Croatia. Will they really keep quiet as an independent regulator when all this happens and will insist that funds for pluralism are transferred to someone who is the main function of being non-profit. At the same time, we all say that hundreds of press jobs have been lost in recent years, hundreds of jobs. And so we create artificial competition in those directions where these jobs can be trained. It doesn't lead anywhere in the future. And where the future of electronic media leads, and that's why I mentioned and called for a final presentation of the media strategy I can tell you on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82799	Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82800	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague Mesic. You keep mentioning some media strategy. I'm interested in what the media HDZ strategy is. I'll give you an example. It's my impression that your strategy is to buy funds from a suspicious origin of a local station. I'll give you an example in Djakov. So far HDZ has controlled the radio station Djakovo. Now these same people bought another medium and a new radio. The bankruptcy manager, president of the City Council of HDZ, sees wonders. No news of any other political options we can break through to those two media outlets. And it is a strategy for developing the media space of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82801	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82802	Our media strategy was presented in 2011 in six laws that all in this House were adopted unanimously. Amendments to the Media Act unanimously, amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media unanimously, amendments to the Law on HINA, amendments to the Law on HRT, Law on HRT adopted in the Croatian Parliament during HDZ by a unanimous colleague based on political consensus. It's our media strategy. And you buy no local radio and TV stations, your strategy is money subscribers buying HRT and using it for your party functions. It's your media strategy. And the media strategy was not mentioned by us but by the current government and the current ministry that couldn't get it out for 2.5 years. Do we understand each other?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82803	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82804	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Mesic, you have said exactly, we will only support this with evidence that the director of the HRT Programme has, among other things, been contacted by the chief media adviser here and our President of the Parliament. So then we see what we're talking about here. However, something else I wanted to replicate to you last year, that is, at the beginning of this year several television stations were shut down, radio stations were shut down, and I will remind you of the discrimination we have made on the occasion of VAT reduction. Namely, a couple of weeks ago, although not related to the electronic sector, an association of printed media, so the weekly publishers of local media who probably didn't know that in one hand, if they're holding a newspaper, I'm not going to name them any, you know what I'm talking about, then they don't have to have a fiscal cash register, and if in one hand they only hold a list of "Međimurje" and "Međimurska novine" or "Varaždinski news" has to have a fiscal cash register. So we warned about it, it's a nonsens that was allowed when we voted in such a way of funding. So there is obvious discrimination in the media sector, and we all go back to the local media and we all praise them very much and embrace them, for example when it comes to local elections. Let us not fool ourselves all, but when they need help, no one is so loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82805	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82806	You're probably replicating this because you were present during the meetings and... when they warned about the situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll remind you they were also coming to our Media Committee, the Parliamentary Media Committee, to warn you, they were talking about it of course when there was a meeting of the Media Committee and they talked about it, they tried to warn you about it. They made it clear who they considered responsible and made it clear that there was something else being financed from the Pluralism Fund, but there was no echo. Of course, for a long time history has not remembered that someone directly from a political position appears in some editorial places or in the leading places on HRT, of course it's a new degradation. And I guess that's part of some media strategies that weren't close to us. You know, you did the same thing in that ministry. What I am apostrophysing the media strategy not only for calling someone out, provoking or something else, but for the actual debate on this strategy to open up a platform to agree on some things as we agreed on the Law on HRT in 2010 and at least to be adopted on the basis of a political consensus if it does not include cultural institutions or institutions in culture that should have been involved in the formation of the Programme Council. But it is completely illogical that today, when we discuss the Council for Electronic Media, you do not at the same time take into account colleagues and colleagues what you voted for when you voted on the Report of the HRT Programme Council, where it clearly states that the HRT to be controlled by this independent regulator has not completed its programming function of producing domestic audiovisual content. And nothing to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82807	And now go ahead and finish five minutes on behalf of the club, colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82808	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What I meant when I mentioned the media strategy and what we thought when we wanted to see what certain candidates suggest during their nomination, and that would be very clever if they had in some way proposed their vision not a programme because they must, of course, stick to the legal frameworks but their vision I think it should be crucial in future to appoint members of the Council for Electronic Media. Why am I saying that? Because these thoughts, plus the announced media strategy that has been produced for 2.5 years, plus our public debate in Croatian society must be a platform for the creation of a new Law on Electronic Media. The fact is, that law needs to be renewed. That time is going, that technologies are progressing, that things are changing in the digital world, that brand-new audiovisual service providers appear, that televisions appear on demand, that cable, internet channels appear. That telecoms from around the world are entering the space of digital distribution of information about which Croatia has no legislation because the Ministry of Culture has been sending us changes and additions to media laws for 2.5 years. 2.5 years of amending and supplementing media laws that, in 90% of cases, aim to change the existing team that runs the institution, I will remind you of the HRT Act, and how to set up political listeners. Instead of discussing this Parliament on the basis of the proposed strategy and on the basis of the proposals proposed by the people who are to enter the Council for Electronic Media, we will be discussing this precisely because we will not have any media national independence very soon because simply the HRT will become fully irrelevant in this way. There are major discussions in the world between the European Union and the United States on this issue. Protecting the distribution of information and audiovisual content, it is one of the main topics of the negotiations and these two large economics call them the blocs. We in Croatia, in the home ministry, in the government and consequently in the Parliament sleep as if it were not happening in that space. And that is the question of the future and the Council for Electronic Media of Electronic Media. Because all of a sudden when your telecommunications houses, when big Internet providers get involved in the electronic media market, you'd be left with content that nobody cares about. One such blow occurred when commercial televisions appeared that, based on subscription and subscription money, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia managed to stop and preserve the national electronic media, and local media, I guess for a while at local level. If through the announced media strategy that needs to be treated, through the announced amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, we will not all face this problem together, then we are in big trouble. We need to discuss this, and therefore we insist on a media strategy and a broad debate on the parent board. Because if you're not aware of this today, you and your colleagues will be well aware of it in 2.3 years. As of today, big debates are taking place in Europe, and many people in many countries dealing with this professional matter are looking very seriously for a way out of this situation because you are in a situation where you are confronted with national interests to have their own distribution channel of information with a large market, with great money and with a great possibility of abuse. This is what we each need to remember when we choose new members of the Electronic Media Council who should know more about it than we do. I'm not sure that's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82809	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82810	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. And even though it's been said more than once here that it doesn't just go away because the opposition in an anergia is aware that absolutely nothing can do because it will always be outvoted, and the position unfortunately is in a state where it is, so it will always raise hands for it. I need to draw attention to the fact that the decision to do this violates Article 179. A Rules of Procedure which makes it clear that before the debate is held at a session of the Assembly, it should be discussed at a session of the working body, and then it can only come to the meeting of the Assembly. This is clear, it writes for all acts, it also applies to the law, since other acts are not mentioned in the whole of that head anyway, of course it refers to all acts because otherwise a series of acts should not be discussed at all on the parent bodies or on committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82811	This is about proposals, government-led staff proposals, so they are not in this sense acts, appointment decisions proposed by the government. I'm closing the debate. We'll discuss the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82812	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Electronic Media Council. Proposal for a decision appointing part of the members of the Electronic Media Council. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution decision. Please state who is in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 22 abstentions, a decision has been taken to resolve part of the members of the Electronic Media Council, as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, with 83 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 22 abstentions, have been decided to appoint a part of the Council for Electronic Media, in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82813	And before we take a break, we'll just do this: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy attorney for the children. The proposer of the decision shall be the Ombudsman for children pursuant to Article 4(2). It's a law about a child's attorney. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. The decision will be explained by the Ombudsman for the children of Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82814	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, esteemed MPs. So here's thank you first of all for letting me get this agenda point in before the session, because we have a lot of work to do so we don't leave it for the afternoon. After the competition was held, five candidates appeared and I found that Ms. Maja Gableica Šupljika best in all aspects met the requirements prescribed by law but also those of my personal opinion on who should be my deputy, or deputy. I will not bother you with the data from a rich biography and rich bibliography, these are the materials that you have obtained and which you have certainly read. More than that, I'd like to say that Mrs. Gableica Šupljika has been working at the Attorney General's Office, so with my two predecessors for the past 10 years since the very establishment of the Ombudsman's institution for children. She's doing great, she's the person who assures me the continuity I insist on. Mrs. Gabelica Šupljika is more than you can read in what you got on paper, great team, I'd like to beg you for peace, please, I can't outvote with you, and I can't outvote you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82815	Please. ... Anyone who won't listen, please, colleague Shucker, who won't listen, let them leave the hall. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82816	Thank you. I beg you for peace, I apologize, I don't have a strong enough voice to outvote the entire hall. Thank you very much. I think Mrs. Gableica Šupljika is here today about my proposal to elect a deputy deserved... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82817	Please. Please. Please proceed. Are you done? I'm sorry, you're here to explain the proposal, you can't lead the controversy with the MPs who are in the bench. [[I don't know we're on you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82818	Thank you very much. I'm trying to explain the proposal. Mrs. Gabelica Šupljika, in my court, meets all the formal conditions for my deputy, I suggest it in that sense. It not only meets the formal requirements, it meets all human conditions and therefore I choose it. She's a person who's been working in the office for 10 years, since the founding itself, she's a person who, in one period when the institution's attorney for children has actually run that office, she's the person I've gained complete confidence in in this 3 month since my appointment, and that's why I'm actually recommending her. I truly believe that given the fact that we are all willing to fully support the maximum protection of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, and given the fact that I am the child's attorney that you will also support my choice for my deputy heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82819	Given that time has now gone by, and that we have, that they have also applied for the debate in the meantime, and that there are committees in progress and that I am not being replaced, following a break from the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Shucker and the replica of my colleague Reiner. Then here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82820	Look, Madam Vice President, I know this government has appointed a lot of so-called so-called. self-proclaimed stars to certain functions, however, the elemental decency requires that when you come into someone's house, you act according to the rules of that house. Well, that's how Mrs. Attorney-General would have if she'd put down ten inches of this microphone, she'd have spoken loud enough if the MPs had heard it, but you've been given the right to teach here, and if she hadn't even looked at the Rules of Procedure on the work of this High House, she simply doesn't have the right to do it. She's entitled to her own personal expression, I guess 50 times in her explanation, me and me. She does it myself, so I can have and no one defends her, but when she comes to this High House then she must act according to the rules of this House, unlike her, they chose us, MPs, Croatian citizens, and you were appointed by only one political... in a slightly strange way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82821	You didn't call on the Rules of Procedure, but I warned the lady that she couldn't have sex with the MPs, so she didn't need to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Reiner, please choose your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82822	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, not wanting to comment on the way he was now presented, I just have to say something. The distinguished lady didn't understand the relationship between the Parliament and those she represents clearly and who installed her because she said, I choose her. This is where this House has to do it because otherwise we wouldn't be sitting here right now or discussing it. So either this Parliament chooses someone, and because someone, because they are part of some government and the government has appointed them, thinks they can choose or not choose someone, that is, of course, a private opinion, but we are still in parliamentary democracy, even though unfortunately in this House, we often do not seem to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82823	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Are the Committee rapporteurs actually going to take the floor? He doesn't want to. I am opening the debate, and the first one will be on behalf of the HDZ club, counterpart Martina Banic. I'm setting a break until 3:00. It's 13,36 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82824	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Martina Banic will speak with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Ombudsman for children, colleagues and colleagues, I will say just a few sentences on this subject and the appointment of a deputy attorney for children, but I think it would be good to remind ourselves a little of the Law on the Ombudsman for children and of the obligations arising from it in view of the completion and manner of the debate that we had this morning. The task of the Ombudsman for children is to protect, monitor and promote the rights and interests of children under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Ombudsman for children acts independently and independently, holding to justice and morality. The law also states that the prosecutor has two deputies who are also state officials whose term of office is eight years, and must not be members of any political party. The deputy, i.e. the deputy attorney general, shall be elected by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Ombudsman for the children. In Croatia since 2003 there has been an Office of Advocates for Children, and in the past 10 years a lot of activities have been done towards the protection of children's rights. Today, we witness daily child rights threats, the social opportunities we live in, the growing unemployment, the growing and more frequent poverty are just some of the factors affecting children. We are also aware that from year to year, fewer children are born and more marriages are falling apart. According to data from the National Statistics Institute in 2013, fewer than 40,000 children were born, in Croatia's history, such a situation happened in 2003 and here again, this situation is happening again. Nearly 6,000 marriages were broken last year, and only slightly more than 19,000 were completed. All those facts I've brought out don't add up to the kids. Infringements of children's rights are increasingly common, at every step, in each segment we can encounter violations of their rights, starting with health care, through school, education and education, all the violence that happens everywhere, in the house, on the street, in school and on the Internet. That is why it is necessary to strengthen awareness in the role of children’s rights. There is a great responsibility and the responsibilities of the attorney general and her deputies. Some say, well, yes, children have too many rights. I can't agree with that because children are born with rights, and they need to be taught what their rights are and how to use them properly. The problems that I have cited, which are growing more and more every day, affect the weakest in society, are children. It is precisely these problems that open up the space for stronger activities of the Attorney's Office. New problems such as the problem of violence on the Internet, with existing ones, pose a major challenge to the Attorney's Office. That is why it is necessary and important to have a greater engagement and attorney-general and her deputies and deputies, as well as society as a whole. A few weeks ago, exactly 3 weeks ago, I think, here we were discussing a report by the Ombudsman for the children for 2013 and then we talked about the problems children face. We have particularly apostrophe of the problem of poverty. And we read reports that almost 2700 new items were opened in 2013. But not to repeat what I said three weeks ago and what we talked about here, I'll conclude. Children are exposed to various forms of violations of their rights, there is still no level and effective protection of children from violence in all places and in all forms, so I see the role of attorney and her deputies as one of the most important roles of the day because taking care of the most vulnerable, and in some ways the most endangered is a great responsibility, and on the other hand there are great expectations of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82826	We have one replica reported. Dear colleague Gyurjitsumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I see you were the only one in front of the club arguing. Indeed, you were talking about the need for counseling for children and roles. I would, you said that the most exposed group, really are the children's most exposed group, and last time we emphasized it, and I'm going to do it one more time. It's a series of laws, so this class is about family law where I think she's a lawyer, and it's probably going to be an attorney's office, it's about children's lawyers, it's about special courts that will deal with young people and children, of course, of course, education, we've pointed out the problem of alcoholic parents raising their children from kindergartens and how to prevent it. I would still show the last case one, and these are commercials using children, or young ones. I can especially say, I haven't heard the lawyer say if she's going to be obvious, it's about a teleoperer's commercial where they've obviously used young people to sort of insult, or humiliate the elderly population, and there's a lesson that can be learned that they want to do so. And what's more, in the media, I've already warned my colleagues about it, and I don't know how seriously they can take it, the lawyer or her deputy, is in public speaking to the kids from the morning program very often, since I'm getting up early looking at the morning program and if it's about kids who are out there and there's a leader who's young and then keeps calling them kids. Kids this, kids that. It's simply no longer tolerable to listen 'Cause they're not kids, they're kids. [[Intruder Stazic: Time is up.]] And no matter what the raiser who's with those kids is talking about girls. Yeah, I'll finish it. [[Intruder Stazic: Comrades twilight, I warned you, time is up.]] I know. [[Intruder Stazic: And for you time rules as well as for all.]] Well, I hope that makes it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82828	The replica matches the respected Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, I agree with what you said, children are both the most exposed and the most endangered in any way we look. If we're looking at the commercial you were talking about, if we're watching the morning program on TV, if we're watching the afternoon, evening, anyway. If we look at, for example, at the last few days, I've been watching the web pages of local administrations and self-government of our cities, as you say children call children on shows, let's say very often the name of children with special needs can be seen on city sites. We here have said very much in the House that there are no children or persons with special needs but are persons and children with developmental difficulties. Thus, such things unfortunately happen and will likely happen many more times. There must be a role and a lawyer for children and her entire office to be warned and to point to such problems. What you've mentioned well is the problem of alcoholic parents. Here in the Parliament, we also talked about the problem of alcoholized children who are getting more and more on the streets especially on the weekends. It's also an area where you should work even more and try to do as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82830	The final minutes of this debate belong to the Ombudsman for children Ivana Milas Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82831	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. I actually just want to repeat that I'm staying with everything you've got in writing. And I have one more thing to say, thank you to my predecessor, Mrs. Mili Jelavic, an earlier attorney who actually did a great job. As a deputy, she had a Master Maja Gableica Šupljik who had been doing her job for 8 and 10 years, respectively, ever since she came to the office. Mrs. Gabelica Šupljika not only did she, if I may say so, meet all my expectations, she outsmarted them in every way. I really think that you will almost unanimously support me in continuing to do my job on the same team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82832	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82833	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a deputy attorney for the children. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to appoint a deputy attorney for the children. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour and 24 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of Maria Gableica Šupljika as the deputy attorney for the children. Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to making an oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Attorney General's Law for the Children's Deputy Attorney General when he was called up and pronounces his word, I swear. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will exercise my duty in the justice, honor, conscientiously and impartially, in the best interests of children." Deputy Ombudsman for children Marija Gableica Šupljika.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82834	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82835	Thank you very much. Congratulations. I want you to carry out your duties successfully in the interests of children and Croatian society, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82836	We move to the next point, that is – - The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2013; The Reporter is the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science based on Article 18. Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Yes, you do. The chairman of the board of directors, Dario Wretenar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82837	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In 2013, the work of the Croatian Science Foundation marked relatively large changes. As the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science in mid-2012, new legal provisions began in 2013. Amendments to the Foundation Act provided for the appointment of new members of the Management Board. At the constitutional session of the Management Board held on 8 May 2013, Dario Vretenar was elected president of the Management Board from the Faculty of Natural Sciences of the University of Zagreb and he was appointed to the Vice President of the Management Board Prof. Dr. Dean Ayduković from the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb. In order to create formal assumptions for the opening of new tenders and to ensure that pre-conditions are made available to the academic community for funding research shortly after its finding in the second half of 2013 the Management Board shall access the adoption of acts. At its 4th session on 25 July, the Statute of the Croatian Foundation for Science was adopted in line with the new Foundation Act. At the 6th session, the Management Board of the Foundation adopted an Action Plan on calling for public calls for applications for scientific projects for the following year. The objectives of the Action Plan are to launch new tender cycles for research projects and research projects and to ensure a stable funding of projects in a four-year and three-year period, to launch competitions for the development of careers of young researchers, to educate new doctors of science, and to establish a comprehensive career development programme at postgraduate and post-doctoral level, to establish the cooperation of scientists from public scientific institutions and universities with researchers from the economy and business sector. It is important to note that the Foundation supports basic, applied and developmental research as well as a balanced distribution of funds between scientific fields and fields. At its meeting in September 2013, the Management Board set out the text of the Regulation on the avoidance of conflicts of interest setting out the basic principles of recognition, determination and regulation of conflicts of interest in the project evaluation process. The Management Board of the Foundation adopted the evaluation manual for the project subjects in October 2013 and, in order to be able to call the tenders, it was necessary to establish all the abovementioned acts and those before the opening of the tender, together with their tender documentation and evaluation criteria, were publicly available on the Foundation's website. For the Foundation programmes in 2013 40 million kuna was provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and for the same period, the Foundation had programme funds of 10 million kuna, which accounted for a total budget for the fund programmes in 2013. Competitions for research projects and research projects have been launched on 1 October 2013. The objective of the research projects programme is to create new and improve existing knowledge. The Programme shall finance basic research that improve knowledge of a specific area and which is aimed at better understanding research subjects and applied research aimed at achieving new knowledge and achieving practical objectives. Research groups dealing with international or national significant problems and whose leaders are scientifically recognizable, are supported, particularly visible by achievements. The establishment of research projects is a long-term instrument aimed at faster establishing independent research... young scientists in Croatia, offering the best-valued young scientists the ability to establish new research groups dealing with modern and internationally competitive issues. This contributes to modernising Croatia's highly educated and research system and increasing the competence of Croatian researchers in the European Research Area. Done at Brussels, The Foundation received a total of 668 project proposals in two tenders. 469 applications have been reported for the Research Projects programme and 199 applications for the program. As in previous years, the largest number of project proposals was received from natural sciences, followed by the field of biomedicine and health, technical sciences, social and humanistic and biotechnical sciences. 44 members of the permanent boards of the area, 167 members of Panel for evaluation and 1155 international reviewers participated in the evaluation process of the project proposals. The permanent committees of the area shall be established according to scientific fields. Their task is to ensure the implementation of the evaluation process, to determine members of Panel for the evaluation and to make recommendations for funding in the Management Board of the Foundation. The Foundation established 6 permanent committees of the area for natural sciences and technical, biotechnical, social, humanistic and biomedicine and health care. The list of members is available on the foundation's network pages. The evaluation Panel's tasks include the evaluation of reduced project proposals, the submission of project proposals to historical evaluation, the proposal for reviewers, the evaluation and evaluation of the eligibility of financial plans and ethical issues, the ranking of project proposals and the issue of recommendations for funding. In total, 263 possible members of Panel for evaluation were contacted, while 167 accepted the call. In the process itself, 4321 foreign reviewers were contacted, including 1155 or 30%, 1468 or 39%, and 1151 or 30% did not respond. These percentages are consistent with the European average in our similar foundations. So the competitions closed in November 2013. In the first round of evaluations there were 664 projects, 409 were sent to the historical evaluation, 278, were proposed for funding and finally financed 237. The evaluation process is completed when, on the basis of the results of the evaluation of the review and recommendations of the Permanent Committee on the Area of the Management Board of the Foundation, it is decided on the financing of the project. The evaluation process itself lasted seven months, which we consider to be a great success. In 2013, the Foundation's office also ran 80 projects totaling 46 million 891 thousand kuna and these are projects that were funded in 9 previously called Foundation Programmes and 3 international programmes, more specifically the programmes in which the Foundation funded the successfully rated projects of Croatian scientists registered in the competitions of the European Science Foundation, the European Science Foundation, whose members are members of the Foundation and the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The largest number of projects in the Foundation's programmes and in the Research Projects programme, the Founding Projects and the Partnership in Research programme. As regards international cooperation as one of the key factors that guarantees and improves the quality of highly educated and scientific institutions, the Foundation aims to strengthen cooperation or internationalisation of actions and programmes. The General Assembly held in Brussels in May 2013 accepted the application of the Croatian Science Foundation to Science Europe. Science Europe is a Brussels-based organisation established in September 2011, bringing together European institutions that finance scientific research and research-based institutions. The entry of the Croatian Science Foundation into Science Europe membership is an extremely important step for the development of science in Croatia, given the processes that Science Europe is launching at European and global level. The Croatian Foundation for Science has been a full member of the European Science Foundation, the European Science Foundation, since January 2008, with the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which has been a member since January 1993. The organisation is slowly shutting down and Science Europe is also taking over its role. In 2013, 12 programmes were under way, 8 of which ended in 2013 and others in 2014. The evaluation of periodic or final reports was carried out for all programmes during 2013 and the decision was taken by the HAZU Co-ordination Committee and the Croatian Science Foundation. The Foundation also signed the Declaration of Accession of the European Charter of Researchers and the Code of Employment of Researchers. During 2012, the Foundation's work analyses were carried out which are the basis of a strategic and action plan in order to apply and respect the principle of these documents in the work of the Foundation. Following the evaluation of these documents, the European Commission granted in May 2013 the trustee the right to use the account.... The acquisition of this recognition... is an international confirmation of the recognizable and recognised procedures and principles implemented by the Croatian Foundation for Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82838	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. Branko Vukšić signed up on behalf of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club. He's gone, the club's losing the right to discuss this agenda point. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Academy Wrettenar. So right at the beginning, HDZ will support this year's report by the Croatian Science Foundation for 2013. The fact is that the foundation made quite a progress I would say in funding science and introducing order into funding science because the situation that existed was actually very worrying. Namely, the challenge faced by a trust fund whose board of directors was only established on 8 May. Therefore, he worked in that year for just over half a year it was that in fact we had no competitions in Croatia for scientific projects somewhere for about 7 years. And the projects were funded by momentum with absolutely insufficient resources, but no new projects were called. In fact, there was a situation in which nine months actually did not have the funding of the projects at all because it was the period during which the foundation opened the tender and there was no funding of the old projects. The new ones have not yet started to finance and therefore a period of 9 months without any funding of scientific projects is unique in recent history because neither in the former state nor in the Croatian state there was such a period during which there was no funding of scientific projects at all. Of course, the challenge of conjecturing the way the projects were financed was a team that was bigger and it seems to me that the competition, the evaluation that I have to say right away, was really correct and despite some of the objections that were coming forward, and they will always be, of course, we can all be satisfied as it was carried out. Because it is especially important to highlight the relative speed of evaluation. The whole process lasted about 7 months, taking into account the circumstances and need for international evaluation in no way too much. But the system is now in place and I repeat, I think we can all be quite satisfied with how it works. What we can't be satisfied with is the fact that the foundation doesn't have enough money. In fact, if we remember how science was financed earlier, it was financed primarily from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports while the foundation was established to finance exclusively some very competent projects clearly defined, clearly limited to saying so, and most of the other projects, a large, large majority was financed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And then, of course, it happened that the funding was completely transferred to the trust fund. She received a little more money, however, than she had in 2012, but in no way or far from compensated for the complete lack of funding of scientific projects by the Ministry of Science. Therefore, this is one challenge faced by the foundation, faced by the entire academic world that is doing scientific research, but which we are also facing because we must be aware of this especially when we will think and when we will discuss the budget for the next year. In fact, we must be aware of the fact that Croatia stands out below 0.75% of gross national income for science, which is extremely low. Serious countries usually stand out about 2% somewhere, some even significantly higher. Therefore, the fact is that we as a country give far too little money for science even though when we talk about science is always a mouthful of how important science is, how important education is, how we have to make sure that we and this difficult economic situation can only get us out of education, science and everything we normally say. But what then, and I keep saying that over and over again, we forget when we're voting on the budget or when we're discussing the budget. The fact is that the foundation last year was actually scheduled to have 100 million for scientific projects. Then it's reduced to 79. I'm talking numbers around here. So that's a little bit more than 10 million euros somewhere. Your colleagues and colleagues are about to weigh one single serious EU project funded by FP7. One and only, and with this money we finance all the scientific production of Croatia, all the areas, all the scientific research, etc. Someone can tell me that's not all the money because somewhere else around 50 million will go into scientific research through software contracts, and somewhere around 30 million for PhDs, which also has a direct connection to science funding. However, I repeat, for scientific projects, and we are talking about them, and that is the main role of the foundation is given about how much is given in Europe for one single serious project. And of course that's one huge restriction when projects with us, very serious projects, so projects that are internationally valued can be financed up to a maximum of 250,000 kuna a year. We want to be competitive. We want to compare ourselves to the world, and I think we have to go to science. But look at these numbers. We compare that for those who give 10, 20 times more for one project than what the foundation can give, the foundation can give, and that is, the maximum of 250,000 kuna per year. So, of course, that's where we're in one step. On the one hand, we want to and we all want to advocate the world's criteria in assessing scientific production which I think is not bad, but on the other hand we finance it with resources that are such that rarely reviewers, and I think academic Wrettenar can also confirm, often foreign reviewers are in disrepute when they look at projects that claim that, according to world criteria, precisely ridiculous sums, they're going to do some serious science. And then it happens rarely that they even negatively assess such projects because they consider it impossible to make an appropriate project with these money, or produce appropriate quality science. And it's going to be something that the trust will also face because more and more foreign reviewers will actually get used to the sums they get, of course and looking for the result of scientific productions for it but get used to the sums that they get to produce certain scientific outputs think that there's something abnormal, that it or those who promise to do such scientific works that they're insecure, that they're inventing, that they won't do it, that they can't do it. And that is something that certainly the foundation will have to seriously consider in the future how to respond to that challenge. But to not be too long I think it is important to once again highlight the work that the foundation has done is good, but those with the resources at its disposal cannot do all those tasks that we as a society expect from it. We must find ways to finance science in Croatia better because, without it, many of the stories that we tell remain just stories, especially when little things start to analyze in detail. We have whole areas that are, say, dependent on different appliances, machines, instruments, chemicals, etc., that's what VAT is paid for. And now look at this bizarre situation where the state from one side of the pocket takes out and puts it in the other pocket. So, on the one hand, he finances science, and then he immediately takes 25% of it and puts it back in his pocket. Of course, this further reduces this money for science, and there are important areas in science that depend on different instruments that are purchased and that have to be supplied on the world market because of course there is no such production in our country. Therefore, it is also important to make sure that this small money is further reduced. So, to finish, we support the Croatian Foundation for Science report but I plead to all my colleagues and colleagues that science in the next budget is found in a much, much larger amount so that we can really claim that everything we advocate is verbally wanted and truly implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82840	Thank you. Two replicas have been reported. First, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, will replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree mostly with you academic Rainer, I'd almost sign 90% of your debate, but for the public's sake, I still have to correct a few facts and comment that it never stopped funding the projects. All projects between 2007 and 2013 were financed until the end until a new project cycle was launched based on competitions held by the Croatian Science Foundation. And of course it is not the only money, in these 50 million kunas that go through the Croatian Foundation for Science with the aim of primarily competitive projects, the projects of excellence that will pair up projects within Europe, there are 150 million kunas that are intended for long-term dedicated funding of science at universities, allowing the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports to deploy that money themselves to universities and thus completely to free the political influence in selecting the most qualitative projects to be funded. Of course, more should be allocated to science, but income should also be increased in order to ensure a greater division of science in expenditures. However, what needs to be insisted is projects within the EU where, for example, the European Research Council is a significant fund where our scientists provide money and, for example, European funds for which the Rijeka University has withdrawn 30m euros precisely for the development of research scientific infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82842	The replica matches the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well esteemed colleague Jovanovic, of course, is that when we talk about funding science exactly what you said about a sum of money going to universities, but that was what's called a nice Croatian one-shop operation. We don't know if it's going to be like that this year, whether it's going to be next year, and what I think we all have to stand for is a stable and continuous funding of scientific work. No, one year give some money because we don't know what's gonna happen later. When you say it's not true that there was no funding, it's true. So the funding wasn't during this period when the old projects were completed. They've been funding themselves for the last two years, like I said, by intruding, with precisely ridiculous sums of money I don't know 10 grand, 20 thousand kunas, etc., which no one can seriously think is funding science. But then it also stopped during this period since the competition was opened and until the evaluation was completed and until it was actually just beginning, the results were learned and this is very fresh now, now there was a period of 9 months in which there was no funding at all. So I'm not talking about everything else. So, unfortunately, that's true. And I'm glad we agree, and I think we'll all agree that we should better finance science. If it's up to the economy it's clear to everyone, it's clear, it's just a question of whether we have to wait for our economy to develop fantasticly, and then we're going to give money for science, or it's true what we rarely say and I'm not sure it's seen through the budget, and that's to say that we have to invest in science to help develop the economy then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82844	The second line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. By 2011, fellow Reiner, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, it was a provision that for all projects that were scientifically research based on the submission of documentation, the Ministry of Finance returned the value added tax and in this way we helped science because it is illogical if you give someone the money to take from him 25%. However, since 2012, under the cover that nothing can be released from the VAT, it has been abolished even though this is not a release but a practical return of money and that is what can be solved through the Law on the implementation of the state budget because how the state budget will be implemented makes the decision of this high home. However, this, and for fire equipment, unfortunately, this regulation was removed from the state budget, and in such a way they are less than 25% of the funds, although I say it was not logical that this provision should be removed from the law, it could remain because science has not had enough money, and that 25% would not have felt a single budget user missing, and science would be very helpful. So, fellow Members and colleagues, the next time we discuss the State Budget Implementation Act, bear in mind that you support the HDZ Club's proposal to return that provision to that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82846	Answer to the replica of Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Shuker, I'm glad you agree with me because it's something that I've apostropheded as a complete nonsense that the state is therefore charging VAT for something that it itself has been giving out money for and has to spend money in the state budget. What I would like to remind you is that when it was debated here we gave the amendment as a HDZ club, but not the only one, because I must say that some of the rulings have given amendments, in particular Professor Boluncic as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Science, has personally given the amendment, unfortunately he has also been rejected. And I completely agree with you that money, such a sum of money to the state budget absolutely doesn't mean much to the state budget with that money, and without that money, unfortunately, it's in such a catastrophic state that even a strict amount of this kind of money wouldn't help him, and science like this would be terribly helpful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82848	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Damir Tomic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82849	Thank you, Vice President, President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I am glad that we all agree that this government is working for the benefit of science and education, and I am glad that the government strategy is, and we will again show that this government really cares about these processes that are most important to us and that we want to achieve some European norms of some countries that are ahead of us. As far as this report is concerned, the SDP club will support it, of course, and I'll just be taxing on some of the things the president has already stated for a reminder. For the 2013 Foundation programmes, 40 million kuna was provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and for the same period the foundation was made available to programmes of 10 million kuna, which amounted to a total of 50 million kuna. In 2013 there was a step-up in the work of the foundation because, above all, the amendments and additions to the laws adopted in mid-2012 became a central institution for funding scientific research projects, which has been done only by the ministry. Furthermore, in 2013, as has already been announced here by three competitions, two were launched on October 1st for research projects programmes, outreach research projects. For the first time, private company funds were invested in the scientific, development of young scientists, and a competition for excellent scientists in agriculture was launched on 16 September 2013. Now the figures, in 2013 the foundation received 668 project proposals for this first research project 469, 70.25% for this second 199 or 29.75%. As in previous years, the largest number of project proposals was received from natural sciences 168 and 25% respectively, followed by the area of biomedicine and health with 128 project proposals, technical sciences with 120, social with 108 and humanist with 92 project proposals. The minimum number of projects was adopted in the field of biotechnical science 52. The percentage of domination of applications from the field of natural sciences at the 2013 competition is somewhat reduced compared to last year. The extent of applications received by scientific fields in the research project programme is almost identical with the ratio of the total applications. Less deviations from the ratio in the total number of applications are observed in the programme of establishing research projects where the most applications came from the technical area. In 2013, the foundation's office ran 80 projects in total worth over 46 million kuna. The tasks of the Foundation's office are to enable communication between researchers and project leaders and valuers and management boards. The Foundation projects in 2013 were funded in 9 Foundation Programmes and 3 International Programmes, more precisely in which the Foundation funded successfully rated projects by Croatian scientists registered in the European Science Foundation competition, whose members are members of the Foundation and the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. It is clear that international cooperation is one of the key factors that guarantees and improves the quality of higher education as recognised in Europe as well as in Croatia. The foundation is therefore also aimed at strengthening international cooperation, i.e. internationalisation of action and programme. Accordingly, I will finally mention the following, at the General Assembly held on 16 May 2013 in Brussels, a request from the Croatian Science Foundation for the Membership of Science Europe was accepted, the entry of the Croatian Science Foundation into the membership of the Scient Europe organisation is an extremely important step for the development of science in Croatia, given the processes that Europe's sciences are running at European and global level. Finally again, I remind the SDP club accepts this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82850	Thank you. We have one replica. Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Tomic, of course I won't dispute any of what you read from the report, which we all could read, what we heard, etc., but I have to react to your first sentence that said that we all agree that this government is working for the benefit of science, it's very clear from what I said that it's not true because if it was working in favor of science, it would put it in the draft budget, and then you would vote it out when we voted on the budget that a lot more money went for science than it did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82852	The replica matches colleague Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82853	Just for a little while. The numbers deny you, look at the calculations for the last five years, and you'll get it all figured out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82854	On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed Igor Coleman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82855	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, Honored Chairman of the Management Board of Vretenar. The HNS will of course, I don't have to stress it specifically, but I'm still going to say, I support this report. The fact is, it is true, everyone has already said that in 2013, the year this report refers to was a year of major changes, it is fundamental that the foundation became a central institution for funding scientific research projects and that because of the change of the law, we had the appointment of a new board of directors and, beyond that, was brought from acts that serve as a basis for the functioning of the foundation. Among them was an action plan for calling for public calls, which cited as its main objectives the launch of a tender for the development of a researcher's career and the smooth development of scientific areas and fields, and for achieving these objectives there were 50 million kunas available. Is that a little money? It's not. Is that enough? It's not. Unfortunately. And then, in October of that year, this, to us, seems to be a key step, so the final competitions for research and development research projects were launched. But here on behalf of the HNS Club, I would also like to highlight the competition that was called on the basis of a grant agreement from the economy. It is a very small amount compared to the total amount of 50 thousand kuna, so 0.1%, one prominence, but it seems important to point out, important to point out, it is something of course that should come especially in years to encourage and develop and interesting detail in that donation is that it came from the pharmaceutical industry, which and the industrial strategy of the Republic of Croatia that will soon come into the process, I hope it also recognises as one of the key branches of the Croatian economy, as one of the... branches of the Croatian economy where both recovery and development and growth of the Croatian economy in the future can and should be based. And this, of course, opens up the hope that the Science Foundation will also succeed in strengthening this part of the funding of projects through donations and money from the economy and that the foundation in this general project of linking Croatian science and Croatian economy, but not only Croatian science and Croatian economy, this is always about projects that each of them has in different proportions, that the Croatian Science Foundation will, in this sense, be an important link between science and economy. Of course, I will no longer, I have no intention of listing everything that is and the esteemed chairman of the board of directors and colleagues in front of me talked about international cooperation programmes that should also be constantly encouraged, strengthened, about the assets and revenues of the foundation, all this really does say in the report. What we have in our minds is probably the most important thing that should be, what is expected. We are unfortunately not going to discuss the strategic plan at this time, but what is unquestionable is that we need a stable system of funding with an emphasis on a stable one, that we need a balanced development of research in all areas of science, that we need a better connection between science and the economy and that we need a career development programme for young researchers. It is particularly important to strengthen the international competitiveness of our science and the integration of the Croatian Scientific System into the European Research Area, so that is what the report says as a conclusion, as a message to us, it seems to me, to everyone who decides relevant to these areas, as a message to the future. We, I repeat, support this report and the objectives set out in it for the future and before I finish, I must, of course, focus on the problem of funding, we are all painfully aware, I will not enter into the reasons now at all, but we are painfully aware of the limitations we face when it comes to financing anything in Croatia and so on and science and education and knowledge. Unfortunately, what time and especially then of science and education and knowledge and the only thing I can do from this position and from the position in which we are found to express ourselves again, I admit, I hope that in the budgets that are ahead of us there will be more awareness and more will to deploy the funds, indeed, so that it enables development, and this even development in Croatian science. But with that, I also want to point out that we will succeed to a greater extent through various methods and various tools to attract funds from various other sources, from various funds available here and from this cooperation of the economy and the foundation for science which I, although it was a small amount in 2013, but pointed out as, it seems to us, particularly... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82856	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. The first one will be said by distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Coleman, I called in a replica just to point out what you were talking about because it's one of the key messages. Therefore, we should not be fooled that we will be able to significantly increase the part that we stand out for science, but cooperation with the economy, the transfer of technology and what is adopted today and in the Government as regards the strategy of education, science and technology, the key message. This little story of a pharmaceutical company where they themselves came to the ministry and offered to finance a young scientist is actually a good guideline. 50 thousand kuna for the largest economic operators in Croatia in the year means nothing, but let 20 of them single out 50 thousand kunas we have reached a million kunas in one year. And right away we need to say what is the problem of Croatian science and Croatian economy that compares with Europe and with the world the doctors of science are mostly with us at the university without having anything to do with the economy and that is something that needs to be changed in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82858	The replica matches the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82859	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic, I agree absolutely and therefore, and especially pointed out that example, everything you said I sign. But you also remember with committee sessions and in some of our communications that I always thought that even within the given frameworks that we are all aware of and who are realistic as they are that maybe we should find room for some redistribution to find money for science and education. But I agree completely we can't just hang on to budgets in no activity like this. Alternative new, different sources of funding are something we need to go to hourly everywhere and so on and here. But with this, the problem is that we also need a stable, relatively stable and predictable funding in at least some frameworks so that we can not start again just relying on funds from the economy, therefore on more or less unpredictable in this respect medium- and long-term stability and predictability of the source.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82860	The second line is Vice-President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Coleman and I usually agree, especially when it comes to science, education and similar topics, so I agree with you this time. I actually answered the word to emphasize what you and now in this response to the replica, which is that we need a stable funding of science. Stable funding, however, to translate into a language that is easy to understand is precisely this from the budget, it is the only stable funding. Mystification of two other sources of funding at this time only sends one harmful message. Why do I say mystification? First we go to see the economy, it would absolutely be desirable for the economy to participate in the financing of health because it is so in many countries with far more developed science than it is ours, but also our economies. In Croatia, the economy is in a catastrophic state on the one hand and we have no where to finance it, this economy has no place to finance it on the one hand, and on the other hand, in this way donations that, however, pliding to the goodwill of wealthy companies is not going to bear fruit if both the tax system and the tax system changes are not regulated because then these 50,000 kuna may not be for some 80,000, but it may be 20,000 for them if we do so with a smart tax policy. That's not the case right now, let's just say it's very clear. And other mystification of European funds. European funds exist, they have a lot of money, but whoever had anything to do with European funds in any way knows how much hellish it is hard to get money from these funds. When you succeed he's a significant money and he's a serious money, but there's one or two of the best teams from all over Europe, and the other 20 or 30 that have made a huge effort and they're all very serious, unfortunately they don't succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82862	The replica matches the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82863	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Reiner, if I were to agree in principle, I said that absolutely in all possible ways we need to strengthen these other possible sources of funding, but I agree that we need a source of funding that is stable and predictable and that in these circumstances in which we have to be aware but perhaps we can find some supply somewhere with some redistribution to strengthen it. The problem of the economy is that we can not only rely on the cooperation of science and economy because the economy itself is the issue in which research will finance and what kind of research they are interested in, it is one thing, especially in Croatian circumstances of the economy which is not only because of the crisis but because of the general size of the economy because of the variety of activities there is very limited. So it can be an additional absolute source and it needs to be encouraged and strengthened, but I agree that this can't be the basis on which we rely as the only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82864	Thank you. We move to an individual debate, so the opportunity to speak is given to Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82865	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. A year ago, we discussed how the foundation should become a roof organisation of Croatian science. It was in the light of legal changes and in the light of the adjustments that the foundation had made to that legal basis, or to its new role in Croatian science that it should have. I said then that it would be very interesting to follow the results of this legislative change, or how the foundation will behave, how this will affect science, and here are the first results of these measures. But before I take a brief look at this year’s report, I would just like to remind myself of what we discussed last year. First of all, in 2012 two years ago, there were 10 years of work of the foundation, and we talked a lot about the role of the foundation in science at that time, and it was now completely changed as we can see from the current report from the financial indicators, etc., but it is important to say that only after 10 and 11 years of operation did the foundation get the form it was supposed to have from the beginning. The first cycle of "large scientific projects" was also concluded in 2011 and as I said before in 2012, we changed the legal framework, or the Foundation Act, and it was the year that was first and foremost difficult for the Foundation since it had to pass a whole series of adjustments. But it was also challenging for scientists, or scientific projects that were financed from the foundation. There was something about it and then in the debate but the foundation did everything in spite of both part and paralysis due to changes in the law, election of the board of directors, etc. that science, i.e. start projects and good projects, continue to be financed. So the transformation of the central financial institution of Croatian science has begun and is now ahead of us are the results of this transformation. As for the work of the foundation in 2013 there are some data that should be re-emphasized and highlighted. He says politics should repeat things, and then I'll do it myself. First of all, the foundation conducted three competitions, so as already mentioned research, research projects and ABBVIE-HRZ competitions that I wanted to especially underline, this is what my colleague Coleman took from me, but as I said I guess I'll repeat it again. Last year, we discussed that the share of scientific projects financed from the European Union funds in our science was not satisfactory, i.e. that our scientific projects should just pass, that is, science as such to pass the adjustment that some of the money certainly draws from these funds. But what we discussed, which is somehow left in the other plan, is exactly the link between economy and science itself. This is a good indicator, this is an indicator that encourages and I hope that next year by considering the report for this year we will be able to witness more of these projects. Why? First of all, this company came itself to the Ministry of Science, which is the foundation itself, so we can say that in a part of our entrepreneurs, we are talking here about pharmaceutical companies, but I believe there is more of them there is awareness of the need to connect with science, the need to invest in science and all the benefits that can come from it. So that's a good direction we're going. In the future I say I wish we had more examples like that. Or scientists themselves, or science as such, but also entrepreneurs, above all, will have to understand and focus on just like this, I would now call them... economies and sciences that can ultimately result in technological development, technology transfer and what we all are aiming at economic development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the report we also saw envious statistics. So, if we are talking about research projects, the foundation received 469 applications, which account for 70.2% of total applications, for instituting research projects 119 applications, and 29% and therefore an independent project, or a project financed by private capital or a company. But what I find interesting here is the very structure of the reported projects. So we see that natural sciences lead with 25% so one quarter with 168 projects, biomedicine and health care are others with 128 projects, technical sciences 120, social 108, humanist 92, while biotechnically only 52 reported projects. So there were some discussions that perhaps even too much humanistic and social sciences were favored. If we see these statistical indicators, if we add up the number of projects, we'll see that's not the case. And I am particularly pleased to point out that there are our scientists, resources that can be precisely from exact sciences, so from natural and biomedical and health care projects that are very valuable. What I would particularly like to point out, which I have not heard that so far in the debate is mentioned that our foundation for science has been admitted into the membership of science Europe. I experience this as well as recognition of the work of the foundation, its role in science and further development of both the foundations and sciences in Croatia. It is also important to highlight international projects, meaning three international projects, i.e. the programme in which the Foundation financed the successfully rated projects of Croatian scientists registered in the competition of the European Science Foundation. So European Science Foundation whose members are the Foundation and the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. So it's the same one step that's likely to be more present in the future and... in the financing of scientific projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what should also be said to be recorded, if we talk about financial indicators and surplus incomes of slightly less than 30 million kuna, which I hope will then be re-placed in science and in projects that are positively assessed. To conclude, I think this report shows us that we are going in the right direction, that of course there are still a lot of things to work on, so it is primarily the collaboration of science and economy but that obviously there are shifts in all kinds, therefore, and as regards funding from European funds, as regards the recognition of scientific projects by the economy and the transformation of the foundation itself. For all these reasons, I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82866	Thank you. The individual debate will now be held by the esteemed Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Wrettenar. Well, here's a great pleasure for me to have my first debate in the Parliament on my return from office as a minister, because I believe that everything the Croatian Science Foundation has done in this period since it has been working under a new law of praise and shows to what extent quality work, quality people can constantly improve Croatian sciences. The Croatian Foundation for Science has worked well before, even while it was done by Prof. Kostović and Prof. Lucin but this convocation of the Croatian Foundation for Science based on the new law passed by this Assembly had one new task. The task of harmonising and financing Croatian science and management of Croatian science with some European guidelines, with European experiences and this means leaving the state model of science management and defining itself as a model where the state only controls science. So, before most of the projects, the decision was made practically in the political section, in the ministry, by the administrators, sometimes by the political key, and now thanks to the first experiences precisely the basis of the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science in 2013 we see that the only criterion worth choosing projects is excellence, competence, quality. Therefore, my sincere congratulations to Mr. Wrettenar and his team. I think he did a great job and that all the experiences that were gained during 2013. Be a guarantee that Croatian science will be an equal member of the European scientific research space. It should be said that the word stability has been heard several times today. Yes, this model through the financing of the Croatian Foundation for Science means the stability of budget funding that will increase year after year. 50, 75, 100 million kuna was a plan in the government's budget, and at the same time through programme contracts for dedicated funding left to universities. These contracts guarantee stability because 150 million kuna is guaranteed over the next 3 years, so 50 million kuna per year. So it's stability, it's guaranteed and can't be questioned in any way. What should be pointed out in particular, that this model of funding, as planned by the Croatian Foundation for Science, is therefore to come up with a figure of 700 competitive projects on which 1500 new young researchers will work and thus is provided through this particular model by providing and restoring research staff at our universities. Of course, I'm talking about 2013 but it should be mentioned that these days the Croatian Science Foundation's tender for the selection of 250 scientists, post-doctorates, for which the Croatian Government has secured 30 million kunas. So it's enough to put numbers on paper and see that despite the restrictions on the budget if we look at the resources of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, however insufficient these funds have been growing since 2011 through 2012, 2013, 2014. The funds in the budget intended for science grew from year to year. Therefore, it is a sign that education and science are in the first place for this government, and the goal that the Government has set for itself and which will continue some other government, regardless of whether it was with the omen of the SDP or of someone else, is that the allocation from the budget that today is 0.76% in 2020 is 1.4%. It is the only way to ensure that science is at the same time a guarantee of economic development. Statistics show very clearly, countries that were most outsourced for science 10 years ago today have the largest GDP growth. So there's no need to discover hot water. Greater investment in science will also mean greater GDP growth, more jobs, and then more separations for science and we enter a vicious circle that will guarantee that Croatia lives better, better quality, longer and healthier. I congratulate you once again, Mr. Wrettenar, and I want you to continue your work just as successfully as it has been over the past year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82868	Thank you. Now let's listen to the replica of Vice President Željko Reiner's home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82869	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Jovanovic, I often disagreed with you at your former post, and now I agree with most of what you said. The only thing I'd really disagree with, but I think you're actually going to agree with me, so it's a matter of dynamics. I would not be happy that in Croatia, regardless of which it will be another government, it will be only 1.4% in 2020. I think we all have to insist together that these 0.75 or 0.76% rise to more. I think we have to insist that we come to 2%, because our GDP is low, and therefore, that percentage is unfortunately low that we give for science, and we want to be competitive with those who single out 10, 15, 20 times more for projects. So, by agreeing with most of what you said, I'm pleading on all of us to make this pace bigger and make us more ambitious, to disappear... long before we reach 1.4 and by '20. Let's try to get past 2 or 2.5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82870	The replica corresponds to the respected Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82871	I don't mind being 2,8 2020, but, of course, it needs to be realistic and it needs to know the state of our budget and the projection of how economic growth will take place. However, this occasion would also highlight the extent to which the scientific community has contributed to the overall growth of GDP in Croatia by very high-quality withdrawal of European funds because the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is the most successful Croatian Ministry of Government in the past year... 115% of the planned budgets and, firstly, withdrew the European Structural Funds worth 30 million euros, which are now intended to strengthen the scientific and research infrastructure that can then mean a more successful withdrawal of funds from the European funds. I will mention this occasion that the Croatian Foundation for Science has another new job, which is that the Unity Fund is also now part of the Croatian Foundation for Science, and its task is to link the diaspora of our researchers and create assumptions for a more successful withdrawal of funds from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82872	The individual debate now includes the esteemed Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82873	Thank you very much. I am pleased that colleague Hajdukovic pointed out the elemental fact, which is that the current work of the Science Foundation has drawn closer to what was planned from the beginning as a strategic step, i.e. that the National Foundation for Science, which has been done much more in the role model of the National Science founding from the United States than anything else, is therefore spending in the best way public money to improve science that will thus improve the economy. In Croatia, where the foundation had yet another additional task, which is that it significantly changes scientific policy, introduces a new scientific policy because it needed to finance strategic projects, a few of the best and thus do competitive science in the Republic of Croatia with the primary application of course in the Republic of Croatia. The Foundation had its own concepts and its financial glares. For a time, unfortunately, she did everything she needed to do, forgive a part of what was to be done by the Ministry of Science, and it didn't work, part of it, in one period the foundation wasn't funded at all. So the state didn't invest in it. I don't know if you want me to read it to you for years, but it's the year we kept crawling our tongues to say it like that, but no one heard us. And she came here now as long as she came redefining her activity, and I hope you will insist on it. I am particularly pleased, therefore, by my judgment is the National Foundation for Science or the Croatian Foundation for Science as it is now called the best we have in the Republic of Croatia as regards science, and I hope that you will persist in this, that you will not give in to the various pressures and interest groups but will work on the declared principles that you agree on. In this respect, it seems to me that two or maybe three elements should be highlighted. One is that, as we know, Croatia is in a difficult situation and that the horse that draws the best car should be fed and watered so to speak. I'd be happy if we could achieve a political consensus to make one explosive funding of scientific research projects in the first period primarily applied. So, with the transfer of technology and that one large part of the funds or a significantly larger part of the national product we finance in science, and then that the state withdraws with appropriate dynamics. Unfortunately in Croatia, as you know, there are no large private investment in science, economics as you will and in the country, it is then to encourage this new cycle of science-based development and thus give its contribution and indirect but also direct through the National Foundation for Science. I would like to think about two more, three difficulties related to scientific policy in the Republic of Croatia. We don't have a solution at this point, defined, and especially the medium-term planned relationship between so-called. Institute or institutional sciences, etc. project science, so the ministry left its part of the project science work planned in 2002. It took us 12 years to do it, but it will continue to finance institute science. It will continue to finance part of institutional science through the university and perhaps even some private institutes. The situation seems unhealthy to me, too. The way out of this unhealthiness or medically speaking medicine or medicine, I see it in two ways. On the one hand, one part of a public institute that was ripped from the University of '92. and for the third year, it would be optimal to reintegrate into universities because the institutes would get a wider area of action, because universities would get new people, new spaces, new equipment, and still people would do primary research work. The second part is that the foundation is also funding the so-called. institutional science, institutional scientific research and equal criteria, but in different proportions they deal with. The Foundation, I believe, should finance scientific excellence, which is only one aspect of the work of scientific research. In order for this thing to work, this science has to be conditionally mass. So, and it's perfectly logical that we in scientific research, forgive the scientific and teaching titles are first chosen as scientific categories, and then we're upgraded to teaching categories. So, I'd be happy if one single house, to put it that way, was funded by the foundation and excellent science. So, stepping out and competitive and this conditionally spoken mass science. Secondly, I would very much like to see that in all the contracts that you would sign with project holders you would be obliged by project holders, but also by public institutions to what we used to do, which is that the equipment is supplied with public money is common equipment and that everyone has the same right to use. Because we have some equipment that if I've heard correctly used five, seven, ten percent, and people in some centres don't have the opportunity to use equipment because they either don't have any such equipment or they don't have an obsolescence, etc. So it would also be one help to work in scientific and research activities. And third colleagues and colleagues, I can't at this point of the agenda resist the urge to remind you of the redefinition of wealth. Sometimes wealth was traditionally built on natural resources. Since the 19th century, wealth has been built on industries and industrial potentials. Since the mid-20s, the potential of wealth in knowledge has been here, primarily in science. And if we make an appointment, then we don't stand a chance as a small country. And therefore, I ask you, Academyman Wrettenar, help you, and we will help you as much as we can. You yell, that with 50 million you can't do anything serious in science, and then with our critical remarks we'll try to change it in the budget precisely from this strategic effort to draw a new cycle of production of new values from science. At the end of the last century, more than 50% of GDP in the most developed countries came from the so-called. the service, therefore not from brutal hardware production but from services, i.e. from cashed-out sales of knowledge or science and small countries, only in this way can they prosper. There's a colleague and a colleague so I don't have to go any further that would be my messages and colleague Wretenar to you and your crews I wish a lot of success in working for a purely selfish reason to make us feel better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82874	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Flego reminded me of a very important topic within the overall Croatian science, which is only part of the Croatian Foundation for Science but certainly also her, but since I see that Minister Mornar is here to listen too, so that this message remains for him, which is that one evaluation of all the scientific institutes in Croatia is being carried out, which is on the trail of this proposal by my colleague Flegga that part of these institutes should surely survive on its own, part should be connected, part should be shut down and part should be included in universities. And in this way ensure that the money that dear colleagues and colleagues have not been baffled yet there is a lot of just sometimes not spent sufficiently purposefully. It should also be recalled that Minister Sailor will have a pleasant or perhaps difficult duty to soon declare scientific centres of excellence. So, along with all these projects financed from the budget, scientific centres of excellence will be financed. By the end of the year, 40 of them will be selected 2, 3 or 4 which will be another way of fostering the excellence and competence of Croatian science.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82876	The second line is Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82877	Dear colleague Flego, I absolutely agree with everything you've said, and here I would like to remind you of one fact that there is one complete harmony between the degree of economic development and the investment that a country invests in science, education and technology. Unfortunately, in Croatia, the percentage is very low, 0.75% of GDP. In developed countries, it's about 3%. The goal that Europe has set is for it to be 3% at Europe level because without investment in science, there is absolutely no opportunity in technology for any society to develop in that segment that is most important to us at the moment and that is economic development. And in that sense, I really believe that these 50 million kunas are not enough to make this extremely important and quantum step, and I hope that future political elites will change their approach to science and technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82878	The replica matches the esteemed Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82879	Thank you very much. Since we have been lagging behind for so long for these 3% of developed countries whose national income is significantly higher than ours, I would like 4 or 5% in this explosive phase of science, especially applied science, and let's think about all together where we could squeeze out of the budget and give it to those who could do it the fastest and easiest way. I'm sure you'll be interested in my view of new scientific research. New scientific research is regular, conditionally said, green. So it's about sustainable development and friendly towards the environment. Those technologies that are dirty are more or less old and moving from a developed world and we, of course, could be innovative with our scientific innovations. And we have and we can almost say fortunately we have preserved but unfortunately we don't have an industrially polluted natural environment, so we could find our development potential here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82880	Thank you. Following are the final words of the President of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for the Science of Academy Directors Dario Vretenar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82881	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament allow me to thank you for the support you provide and for which the Croatian Parliament provides the Croatian Foundation for Science. I received the 2012 report in November of last year, and then we announced this whole series of activities that I submitted today's first report. Indeed, these 50 million kunas that we have now received are the first results, we have gone from an extensive funding in which over 2,000 fragmented small projects to a system in which we now have about 250 projects. But just as an announcement of what the foundation is trying to do at the moment, a contest has just been completed for the eye, as Mr Jovanovic said, for about 250 graduates, PhDs who can now fully join these projects that we have chosen. So all the projects that have been allocated can now get young PhDs who will participate in this work and who will do their doctorate for 4 years as long as these projects last. There are also two other competitions for research projects and research projects in the same amount as the previous ones that will be closed in September where we think we will succeed another 250 projects, and in September, a competition for cooperation with the economy as it already had a partnership in research as a foundation where the projects are half-a-half. Half the funds are provided by the trust and half the funds are given by the economy, but in fact the state gives a lot more than half because it gives half of the money, but it gives infrastructure, gives researchers etc. It's something where, of course, the economy finds its own interest. There will be a single competition for a number of post-doctorals, the same acute question, at this point there are many young people who have doctored and who need further support. What the foundation must work on is the inclusion of the Croatian scientific community in what is called the European Research Environment. The involvement of our researchers, our institutes, our universities, we must include it in the European Research Area. No country actually today, and neither the richest has the resources to do research on its own. Research is more national, it is funded from a lot of sources, but what is important is that those countries that have the highest success in European competitions, which withdraw the most funding from European funds, are those that are the most nationalally funded. One of the first things you find in forms when you apply to European projects is what resources you have locally. And that's what you're wondering, so we need to locally increase funding in one smart way to get more funding from it. And I hope that next year we will have a little better results and that we will be able to show a lot more funded projects and that the foundation projects will be able to cover a lot more researchers in Croatia. In these competitions we've had, we've had great successes. I'm sorry, there's a lot of good scientists who haven't been able to get projects in this competence right now, but that's exactly why a new competition is going on, and I believe we'll soon be able to increase that number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82882	Thank you, Deputy. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82883	Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2013 is accepted. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 109 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82884	We move to the next point that has two parts: - A/ Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and the work of members of the National Sports Council. - B/ Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and the work of members of the National Sports Council. The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as regards the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1/2003 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The law on sport is set by the Croatian Parliament to You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Minister of Science, Education and Sports Vedran Sailor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. As you know, every two years the Croatian Parliament appoints six members. On a proposal from Government 5, at the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee 1, the president shall be appointed every four years. This year, Presidents Daniri Bilić, who named himself on the government's proposal, expired his term as well as members of Marija Anzulovic, Damir Poljak, Gordan Kozulj, Ratko Rudic and science doctor Valentina Barisic, were appointed by the Government and Slavko Goluža, who was appointed by the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82886	That's it? Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? What? ... Both of you, both of you, explain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82887	On the basis of a public call issued on 7 May, 20 candidates for the president and 5 members of the National Sports Council arrived. The criteria managed by the government were to achieve results in sports-related jobs, sports representation in terms of tradition, success and massism, to achieve results in sports careers and regional representation. So according to these criteria, they are proposed for the President of the National Sports Council Predrag Freedom, for members and members of the National Sports Council Nikola Pilić, Haris Pavletić, Gordan Kozulj, Dubravko Šimenc, Katica Iles. This was the government's proposal, and the Croatian Olympic Committee's proposal is Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82888	I thank the ministers. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first by the clubs. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected Ante Kulusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82889	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, before us today is the government's proposal to dismiss and appoint members of the National Sports Council. It is the highest professional sports body of course with the Croatian Olympic Committee. And all of these proposed members of the people are with great, rich experience and respectable sports careers. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal for a decision. Although the government did not take care of regional representation because of the 6 members of 3 in Rijeka. However, I must also point out this time that the Sport Act defines parts of modern sport, sport system, persons in the system of sport, sports activities, and therefore we need to distinguish what the National Sports Council is dealing with, that is, the tasks of the National Sports Council in relation to other institutions that have to act according to all observed irregularities that have been financial, which are most often mentioned by some other nature. The tasks of the National Sports Council are clearly prescribed by the Law on Sports, and amendments and additions to the same mid-2012 have been highlighted by the Council and the advisory role. We therefore hope at the HDZ Club that the new minister or ministry will have more hearing for Council conclusions and that a strategy for the development of Croatian sport will finally be developed, that the objectives of the sport development task, the activities necessary for the implementation of these objectives, and the developmentists and measures to control their implementation will be established. Namely, I will remind you this time that the council in the past term has persistently pointed out the need to develop a national strategy for sports and national development programmes for sports in the Republic of Croatia. The documents are the ones which would be strategically positioned by Croatian sport, which would be the basis for the use of EU funds where unfortunately we have not used so far. The Council also pointed out the need to develop a series of project studies that would allow for a clearer definition of the current situation in the sport system in all its segments, and would be a valuable basis for drawing up key strategic objectives and eight-year national sport programme. Unfortunately, now the already removed Minister Jovanovic did not have the necessary sensitivity to Croatian sport and everything it represents in both Croatia and Croatia's promotion in the world. And how important he really is to be proven by Croatian athletes every day. So for a small Croatia at the opening of the World Cup, over 2 billion people were watching. Or, say, yesterday, watching Wimbledon quarterfinals and our great Marin Chile. We at the HDZ Club express regret but also at the same time understanding for the former minister who unfortunately did not have enough time to take all necessary measures to develop Croatian sport. Whether this was the reason why the collection of documents was too busy at the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek or the headache given to him by the Constitutional Court whose ministry was a regular customer, unfortunately we will not know. We hope the Minister will have no problem with the Constitutional Court. I repeat, we hope that the new minister will understand the importance of Croatian sport and that he will not waste time drying out the bountiful swamps in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82890	We're moving on to replicas. The first one was answered by the respected Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And part of the debate of counterpart Kulusic does not deserve an answer, he speaks much more of it, and also of the swamp from which he comes. As regards the composition of the National Council, it was not noticed that half of the members of the National Council were involved and that, if we compare the overall composition of 12 members, there was also regional representation of equal and representation of individual sports and how little sexual representation was possible because very few women appeared. As for my ministerial internship when it comes to sports, I'm proud of what I've done. I did what no minister before me had done, to mention the permanent fees for top athletes, to mention the Law on Sports Inspection, and the cooperation with the National Council was impeccable. However, the National Council was too passive and I am convinced that these six new members with a very entrepreneurship president will also adopt a national plan for the development of sports and sports development strategies and the new Sport Act why everything works this year and I am convinced that together with their new assistant for sport Mr. Mornar will bring all these key acts that will mean better, better quality sport in Croatia. I must mention that I was also called to mention that in my session, increased funding for school sports, academic sports, and as far as professional sports are concerned, professional sport needs to find sources of funding from sponsors, not in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82892	The replica matches Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82893	... Your work and what you did in the government was best said by the prime minister who said he was sending you to the Parliament to rest for a while. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Unfortunately, however, you will also make your behavior a swamp of this House because what is happening today in the Parliament is not good. You're saying it's six members that this is only six out of 12 and I'm just saying that of these six three from Rijeka. That's what I was talking about. That's what the government called it. Therefore, there are athletes of quality throughout Croatia and in all regions. I don't have anything I've said against any member of the proposed team because all the top athletes, top-notch people just had to be taken care of for representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82894	The second line is respected Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82895	I wanted to correct certain allegations about some of my counterpart Jovanovic's reactions in my replica, but the answer to this replica shows that it doesn't make any sense, so I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82896	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club will speak the esteemed Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of our Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. In 2006 at the presentation of the Law on Sports and Legacy of the National Sports Council, then Resolute Minister Dragan Primorac presented it as a body that proposes measures to improve sports, sets priorities and projects, but also discusses the biggest issues that are important for Croatian sport on which no other body, no matter how brilliant or good it can be seen as this council. This task, i.e. those tasks, has not yet been largely carried out by the National Sports Council. The truth is that, with the right of the current president, Ms. Danira Bilic pointed out that the National Sports Council still faces misunderstandings in its work. It is also true that the founding of the council has been delayed for many years. But the key is that the great knowledge, skill, and vast experience of members and council members are not sufficiently exploited by both their guilt and their failure. We hope that this will also change for the new members that the HNS club will support, we want a lot of success in the work. We want them and we propose to be more active, to impose measures to improve sports, to use and include all their skills and skills for which they are chosen, which they are also proposed. They do not need to concentrate exclusively on making studies on what has often been a concentrated council in these past years. It is true that this is also the task of the council but it is also the task of the council and that it proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve sports. The Council referred certain observations and proposals to laws, legislative proposals and other acts many of which have been adopted but, unfortunately, if the proposals were not sent to them by the proposings, they would have failed. This, in our opinion, can be changed and we are suggesting this to the new future president and members of the council. It is not the most acceptable and yet most difficult focus of the National Sports Council on the needs of top sports without the greater involvement of the amateur. So we'd also like that with the appointment of new members and presidents of the council to change. It is therefore necessary to dynamicise the work of this expert body and make it more efficient and more direct than the current needs in sport and in our society because Croatian sport at all levels is expected to make the whole society a driver and a promoter towards healthy lifestyles and the pace especially must be given by bodies such as this and so on, such as the National Sports Council. It must be proactive because I repeat the National Sports Council is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. It is not just a body for the presentations and complaints of citizens, clubs or associations, as could be concluded if only the reports of their work were read. Noting that it would be good for all the high-paid and expensive analyses and studies that the council has made together with the full list of members and members of such an important body to be available on the website of the Ministry of Sports, the HNS Club will, with best wishes, accept the proposal for a decision to appoint a president and new members of the Sports Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82898	Thank you. A respected colleague, Marija Lugaric, appeared for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82899	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I support this proposal to appoint presidents and this part of members and members of the National Sports Council. It is not a practice for them to be present here when discussing their appointment, so I ask you to sort of and pass on my personal but also some here other debates that have been, which have spoken about that the National Sports Council on its work should take a more active role in the formation and politics of sport and politics related to sport itself. So far, we have discussed the Annual Reports of the National Sports Council very critically about the work of the National Sports Council so far. It might not be bad to find transcripts of these phonograms, to give new members of the council to see what we expect of them in some way. But I personally expect a kind and discontinuity in the work of the National Sports Council. Namely, the body that is legally positioned as the most professional and advisory body, which only has a role to play, gives a relatively rare opinion on certain acts and orders studies which are then made by some other or third body, which we are then quite expensively additionally and we are paying rather than actually performing that part of the professional work in sport that they and the law and the position within the sport system were intended for. We, when we discussed it with them, were usually the answer we do not have the capacity and the like, but even in this portfolio to say so, there was the National Council for Science, there were two councils, there is now one council, so the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, there is the National Council for Education and Education, therefore even in our system there are such bodies that in a significantly different way fill their function and even the social role given to them by this Croatian Assembly through special laws. So, I really want successful work on the new National Sports Council, but I hope that it will significantly change the way the Council has worked so far. Everything about what I personally thought and many other colleagues may find themselves discussing their annual reports, these last year. Here and we hope that you will give them a real incentive to start playing the role they're actually meant to play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82900	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed Sunhead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lugarić, you were briefly in the resolution ministry and you know very well what the National Sports Council's task is. In this way talk about people who have been trying to do something to improve sport in the Republic of Croatia, I don't think it's right at least. In addition, the last session they held in May was not a session where each ends with the same conclusion, is encouraged, is asked by the restoring ministry to approach the realization of what the National Sports Council can as an advisory body only propose. So I don't think it's right to talk about people who are top athletes and who certainly didn't sit there to reverse sports. In addition, you're witnesses to yourself, remember only when we passed the Sport Act when Mr. Skansi was here who himself said he wasn't satisfied as a resolute assistant in the same ministry responsible for sports how he refers to sports in the same ministry. Therefore, when we talk about someone's enough pawning, then we speak realistically and take all that the National Council for Sports hastled us, which is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it' it' it's, it' it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it' it's, it's, it' it' it', it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it', it, it'
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82902	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82903	I reiterated the attitude that I did not say here in the Croatian Parliament for the first time, so I have no problem with this part of the advisory part of the work of the National Sports Council and this is the part that you said rightly, they really say such things. However, the National Sports Council, other than the advisory body, is also the highest expert body. That is, in your law, Article 3(1). So it's not just the advisory body, and that part of the National Sports Council wasn't determined. When you look at how the law defined their function, this part of the advisory is giving you an opinion, mostly giving you opinions in different categories, they did this, but that setting up certain things that part of the function of the National Sports Council did not work well enough in my opinion. I elaborated more when it was their annual report. So we need to understand in some way that the National Sports Council has two functions: advisory and professional. The advisory function was one way or another, we can appreciate it in one way or another, but this expert does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82904	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82905	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President and the work of members of the National Sports Council. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and the work of members of the National Sports Council. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously, with 110 votes in favour. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the decision has been reached unanimously, with 110 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82906	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts for 2013 I thank Minister Mornar. A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2013 was submitted by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. You've received the motion for an act. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. The Honorable Secretary General of the HAZU, academician Paul Rudan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82907	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, the Honorable gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. On 3 April 2014, a regular session of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts was held at which a report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2013 was accepted and it is an honor for me to be able to send this report to the Croatian Assembly because we printed it in the 117th book of the Croatian Academy's summer paper. The 757 pages of the yearbook are not our activities, it is a list of our activities during 2013 and this is the 117th year as our academy, the temple of Croatian people culture and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia clearly presents its report. I just want to say a few words to you, since I know you've all studied this very well, that in 2013, our academy promoted the highest values of the nation, which exceeds every day's ideology and decency. During 2013 399 events were held at the Academy, including 9 meetings of the Assembly, 114 scientific meetings, consultations and round tables, 95 scientific and professional lectures, 74 presentations of books, presentations of programs, conferences for journalists and screenings of films, 79 festivals, awards and concerts, and exhibitions in the Academy Museum-Gallery Units, 19 foreign delegations attended by the Academy and, unfortunately, 9 memorial meetings were held in our respected deceased members. I must tell you that on 31 December 2013, the Academy had 142 regular members, 131 correspondence members and 81 associates, i.e. She had a total of 354 members. During 2013, 2 meetings of the regular assembly were held, 1 solemn session when reports of our work were accepted in 2012, after the award of the Croatian Academy for the highest scientific and artistic achievements was awarded on 29 April. For the field of social science he received the award of Dr.sc. Zoran Ladić, two awards of Prof. Dr. Drazen Adamović and Prof. Dr. Jakov Dulčić, for the field of medical science Dr. Nelli Pivac, for the field of philology, received the award from her colleague, Iva Lukšić, Dr.sc., for the field of literature, received the award of Prof. Dr. Dubravka Oraić Tolić, an academic painter Josip Pino Trostman, received the award for the field of music art, for the field of art. Davorka Radica, and for the field of technical science, the award was awarded to Prof. Dr. Sanja Steiner. On 19 December 2013, we also presented work plans for 2014. There were also 12 sessions of the HAZU Presidency, of which 9 regular and 3 extraordinary sessions were held. At all regular sessions, the Bureau heard reports by academics Zvonko Kusic, president of the Academy, discussing the most important issues of the activities of our institution, on financial reports, on the work of individual departments, on the appointment of different co-workers to various committees of individual galleries, institutions, the establishment of different institutions such as. Institute for Clinical and Transplantation Immunology and Molecular Medicine. Then on our action with regard to the Scientific Council on Construction, Reconstruction and Development and the appointment of new members, on financial reports, on the organisation of a ceremony at the end of June in the context of Croatia's entry into the EU, on the initiative of the Academy of Augusta Kovacec to propose amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Conditions for Selection in Scientific Calls. Then on the verdicts of the generals in The Hague, where we have made it clear that if the verdict mentions the criminal enterprise and the Republic of Croatia, and its leadership of the Croatian Academy will publish the following statement on its page. The UN court's verdict to Jadranka Prlic, Bruno Stojic, Slobodan Praljak, Milivoju Petkovic, Valentina Cicovic and Berislav Pusic was received with great surprise and concern. In the formation of the Croatian state, there was no joint criminal enterprise or idea that would involve actions that were not in line with the international legal order. It was signed by the chairmanship of our Academy. I must admit that there have been a whole series of awards given to our academics, who during 2013 were simply rewarded by different institutions. For example, it came that academician Stanko Popovic was elected representative of our Academy of Natural Sciences Education Working Group, Alea working group and science education, academician Daniel Rukavina became and was appointed a member of Open Access and Biomedical Resources, academician Darko Novaković became a representative of the Management Board of HERA, i.e. humanis in the European survival area. I must also admit that within international cooperation, the Academy has participated with its activities in collaboration with 27 World Academys in many actions, and it has also been achieved among the academic exchanges, so foreign academics in Croatia have achieved this collaboration, for example, that seven scientists were in Croatia, and 7 of our scientists abroad. The Zlatko and Joyce Baloković scholarship fund has been awarded for years to Croatian citizens for a scholarship to study in the United States and is for the academic year 2012/2013. The scholarship was awarded to a Ph.D. Ani Babić who attended Master of Science Degree Epidemiology at Harvard School of Publich Health. I also have to say that the editorship of the edition of Croatia and Europe worked to present this capital work under the direction of academics Mislav Ježić, who inherited the editor of previous years, academician Ivan Supičić, and that academician Stanislav Tuksalj held a third volume of editions in English during 2013. I must admit that as regards the schedule of work of certain academic classes and other units, the activity was related to 9th grade and 11 scientific research units in Zagreb and 3 scientific research units outside Zagreb, 4 museum and gallery units, 17 scientific councils and the Croatian crystallographic community. The awards received by the members of the Academy are as follows. Academic Sunday Fabrio received a literary award from the Crikvenica Sun. Academic Davorin Rudolf award Croatian Matice Oton Kucera, academician Slobodan Novak Augusto's Auguste Šenoa Award for Collected Works, Vladimir Nazor's Lifetime Art Award was awarded to the academics Luka Paljetko for the field of literature and academics Marija Ujević Galletović for the field of Fine Arts and Applied Arts, the Academy of Anti Stamac was awarded the award of the literary sceptres of the Association of Macedonian Libraries. Academic Mirko Tomasovic received the Italian National Translation Award for 2012. Academia Vlasta Pilić Dota was selected as a certified food technologist at the Institute of Food Technologies in Chichag. Academic Luka Paljetak is the winner of Pushkin's Medals of Education of the Academy of Russian Literature. Academic Zlatko Bourek was awarded the Klemenčić Lifetime Achievement Award, while academician Radoslav Katičić was elected the Honorary Doctor of the Athens University. Academia Milena Žic Fuchs has been selected as a member of the Academy of Europe. Academic Paul Pavlic is the winner of the Ksaver Shandor Djaalski literary award. Akademic Nikica Petraku was awarded the Dragutin Tadic Foundation Award. Academic Ivan Cifric is a winner of the recognition of the Croatian Sociological Society Rudi Supek. Academic Branko Despot has been elected an foreign member outside Bosnia and Herzegovina's Academy of Sciences' working group. Academik Ivica Kostovic was elected honorary doctor of science at Josip Jurj Strossmayer University in Osijek. Academik Paval Pavličić laureate is a manifestation of the Šokačka rič, and a knight of the order of art and literature was awarded to the professor of science Nikola Bashić, an architect and a member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Our research units worked on 29 scientific projects in 2013 and a total of 2728 different titles were published in Crosby base. In addition, 28 doctoral dissertations, 5 master's papers, and 24 graduates were defended. The Academy has a total of 2026 employees and 30 scientific recruits in its scientific and research museum-galerian and professional units. Of which, of these scientific staff 115 employees are in scientific, professional or cooperative titles, 43 employees work in museum-gallery archival and library titles, 98 employees work in professional services in Arboretum in Trieste and administrative and auxiliary affairs outside Zagreb. The museum-gallery units have indeed shown exceptional activity during the especially night of the museum. The Gliptotheque was held during 2013 and 18 exhibitions were held in Gliptotheca, 8 promotions of books, concerts and lectures. 13 exhibitions were held in the Chamber of Graphics, which contained a collection of 3268 items. Strossmayer's gallery of old masters was opened to the public with a permanent setup, and a donation was received and an exhibition from Göetlib's donation to Mrs Natalija Matovović opened. As for the Croatian Museum of Architecture there were 4 exhibitions and also used 320 researchers and the exhibition programme was followed by 2893 visitors. In the international action "Night of Museum" on 25 January 2013 and in the event Days of Open Doors of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts on 19 and 20 November last year 32 Croatian Academy units visited more than 7,000 people throughout Croatia. I must also say that the scientific council was extremely active. There are 17 scientific councils for remote research, oil, gas, transport, maritime, energy, agriculture and forestry, economic research, the Croatian economy, technological development, etc. And I must admit that their activity is extremely well described in this report of ours in the yearbook 117. I would just like to finally say that in 2013 the Academy published a total of 114 volumes of various publications, which are 24 books, 19 chambers, 43 world magazines, 2 books of abstracts, 2 dictionaries, 10 catalogues and exhibitions, 1 copy of the book of comments, 3 partitions and 9 monuments of the deceased academics. In addition, together with the foundation 65 editions were published, so we can conclude that a total of 200 titles were published during 2013. It means that the Academy of these 200 titles and 399 events had 599 events in 2013, which means that on average it had 2 to 3 events per day. As far as income is concerned, I must tell you that the total revenues amounted to 68 million 968 thousand 538 kuna and 10 June, unfortunately the total expenditures amounted to 70 million 688 thousand 913 kuna and 48 June, and unfortunately the result of the business was a lack of income over the expenditures of millions and 720 thousand 357 kuna and 38 June, but we managed to cover those million and 720 thousand from the previous years. I must finally tell you that the business of the academy has indeed been envious, that we can be proud of the results achieved. This is the result of the work of all members of our academy and I would like to thank the President of the Academy of Academy Zvonko Kusic, all members of the Presidency, class secretary and all the staff of the Academy from those in the service of the Academy's administration to our porters. They all worked together to achieve what was to be realized. And last year, as many times before that, our academy was able to burst with a pure flame of intellectual and moral conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82908	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82909	Dear Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. So HDZ will, of course, support the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts' work in the past year as well as previous years. I would at first, however, although of course I support the report, deliberately start with something that may be perhaps intriguing. In earlier years, voices appeared here and sometimes in media that supported and tried to create certain stereotypes. So let me say a few words about these stereotypes. Fortunately, there's been fewer and fewer in recent years. One of these stereotypes is that the academy is actually one society of older gentlemen and ladies, less lady unfortunately, who may have once been responsible and active scientific and now it's not. You can see from this report from the secretary-general that it is in no way true and the best way to deny you from one side of this 5 cm thick report which is just a list of activities, a list of titles of scientific papers, publications, etc. The best way to deny this is to deny the data we have now heard from 200 published titles to a whole series of exhibitions, events that have truly justified that the academy is a living being, an integral part of Croatian science, which leads in many things Croatian science. I mentioned stereotypes, so maybe another stereotype, one of the stereotypes is that the academy has been too closed especially in recent years, it's really not true. The Academy has opened and communicated with the public in a wide range of ways, not just the day of the open doors, not just the night of the museum, not just one whole series of open round tables, gatherings, etc. but also with very intense communication and attempts to make media presentation as much as possible for the Academy and as much as possible for the audience. Unfortunately, we are all aware that science especially high science, education is not interested in the media very much, many have no specialized journalists at all, those who love certain flashes and not continuity, not work stability. And yet, in the media, however, the academy is increasingly present in a self-secret way, in one way that unfortunately does not correspond to how it should be presented, but the shifts to better are absolutely present in recent years. There is another stereotype, one of the stereotypes is that the academy should react more directly to events in everyday life, participate in current events, comment, judge current events from political to some others. There's nothing more wrong with that, it would be bad, and if the academy got involved in everyday political life then it would probably be fatally reflected on the credibility of the academy itself. However, the academy is not separated from everyday life, and this is best seen from this report where the academy has responded very clearly to one current event, and this is a possible verdict to the generals where it has, in fact, prepared a clear stance of the Croatian state which is both a conscience and an intellectual basis on the issue. Another aspect, which proves how active the academy is in some of the thinking that is very important for Croatia, mainly Croatian science and culture, is that, as we heard, the academy has adopted a view on the draft strategy of education, science and technology. The strategy that has been developed for 2.5 years, and here we have heard today that the government has adopted this strategy, we will probably discuss it in autumn because there will be no more time now. However, they would point out, in particular, one sentence from that strategy, from that attitude of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which says: "That the strategy should be adopted in the Parliament and by consensus so as to create a basis for its achievement during several political election cycles." My colleagues and colleagues, the message is very important, but I fear it will not come true, I fear that it will not even happen despite the fact that Professor Budak, who led the strategy group, has indeed made an effort to try to get acquainted with the strategy of all political parties, but this is happening these days, and today the government has already accepted the strategy. So in what way is there then a consensus to be achieved, and it would have to be achieved, I absolutely support that attitude of the Academy that such important things should be achieved because they are not for one government, they are not for one assembly of parliaments, they must last over more of these periods because by nature things must be longer, because they must also be realized over a long period of time. Unfortunately, however, we are once again witnessing that it has not even tried to make a consensus and that it will obviously not be achieved because if the government has already adopted a proposal then what consensus we are talking about, it will tell you nicely that you are voting, you will vote on it and will not talk about it further, which is a pity. But the fact that the academy really does realize envious activity and science, and as far as culture is concerned, and as far as art is concerned, it is something that we will all agree on. And what I'd rather do in the end is we all try together as much as we can to make that voice of the academy, which is, as you can see from this report, and it seems to me that I've tried to point it out, and it's quite articulate, really, because it's not enough for someone to say something, and I need to hear what someone's saying. The Academy has its own voice and it expresses its views, but are those to whom the messages are sent hearing it, and do they really respect it? And that would be necessary because the academy is not only like the secretary-general here nice, he likes to say poetically in the conclusion "The Temple of Culture of the Croatian People and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the temple of science, art and creativity". It is not only a temple, the temple is something that is static, it is dynamic and it participates in everyday life but in what is appropriate by being the consciousness of Croatian society, being in some way supporting Croatian society and giving direction to the development of science and culture in Croatian society. It has been so far and should certainly remain so, and I have no doubt that it will perform its key function in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82910	Thank you. Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82911	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Reiner, you spoke nicely about the academy and I support almost your entire discussion, but I would refer to one part that seems extremely important to me, which is the PR Academy. You mentioned this PR I think it is very important for all Croatian citizens and for our society that it is even more important that the Academy's work and the Academy become aware of our fellow citizens because this feeling is important for the self-awareness of every citizen for Croatian citizens, as the secretary of the academy said, to have their own academy that exists with all its high values, with all their academics, with all their works and I think that we should put even stronger into all our values of this academy, the works of the Academy and all these academics represent and must be represented in Croatian society. And in that PR, I think we in the Parliament could help a little bit more, not just in the Parliament, but in the overall political corps. And here I am personally at my disposal, and I believe that this PR is getting a little bit stronger and that we all, together with full self-awareness and pride, are talking about this institution that is unique and important to all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82912	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82913	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, thank you very much, colleague Blažekovic, for supporting what I said, which is that the academy should get a much more visible place in our media space. But unfortunately, you and I both know that thanks to one complete estradisation, I would say public life, in which, of course, such a serious, methodical, systematic work is often not interesting then it is very difficult to achieve. The Academy is trying itself, we're gonna do the same thing here and you're gonna verbalize it, we're gonna do the same thing I'm confident it's gonna get better. But we must be aware that our work is not rarely expressed, especially when it is serious, based on numbers, on discussions that are based on serious data rather than being transmitted only in some estradic flashes, verbal flashes, and that often that serious and long-term work is completely undetectable by the public. Then when it happens with a political life that is in the focus of the public and the media how only then does a poor academy that isn't in that focus manage to break through, but I hope it will get better too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82914	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82915	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague Reiner about the strategy because you mentioned her quite a bit in his speech of science and education, we and we are members of the board and, in fact, somehow from the beginning of the term of office, we have been waiting for this strategy and we often talk about it. She was in the government today. I'm actually sorry that you're so pessimistic, so I volunteered for the replica, that you're so pessimistic about the possibility of her being adopted with broad support. She was in the government today, it seems to me to be about an extremely important, perhaps the most important document that this mandate brings at all or will bring. Professor Budak who co-ordinatored this strategy has shown great will and my impression of co-operation to discuss it, she comes to the board, after which she will attend the plenary session. Nothing is, probably not every letter at this point in stone carved. I am therefore sorry that you are so pessimistic about the possibility of it being brought with broad support and I hope that when it really comes to the parliamentary procedure, we will bring that strategy with wide-ranging if not consensual support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82916	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82917	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Coleman, everything you've said stands of course, and I think it would be necessary to bring such an important document by consensus. However, again I say that some parties did not have the opportunity as parties to discuss it, discuss it, give their proposals such as or such, after which it would be modified eventually, progressed already, she went straight to the government and was adopted today in the government. Knowing the opportunities based on here 2.5 years of functioning and this House, I am sure this hour that you are all in power who are members of the government because it is the government who adopted such a strategy to raise a hand for her, whether she is or not. Whether or not we're going to have conversations about it, whether or not we're going to exchange thoughts about whether or not it can be modified. When will she be able to modify herself if the government has accepted her today? The government will not retort from its position, and you will not oppose the government's position. Therefore, it is irrelevant if we make some suggestions over the next week or next month, two, I fear that it will not return to the government so that the government will then change that strategy because we may have thought a little differently and may have found some corners that could not be seen before or have not been seen enough, etc. That's where my pessimism comes from. I would be the happiest one to really bring it by consensus because I think it's very important, because I think it's very important for such documents but also for many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82918	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82919	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't think we need to talk much about the importance of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, it's the oldest institution in Croatia, and I mean an institution that we all as citizens of the Republic of Croatia certainly have to be proud of and admire. And besides this brief review of the work of the Academy, I think it only speaks a lot of about it, about the commitment of the people who work in it, about the importance of their work and everything they do to promote and preserve Croatian scientific thought, Croatian artistic thoughts, Croatian identity as such. So I won't talk too much about it, I'd just like to tell you in a few short lines why I think this report deserves our support. So the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is a roof organization of Croatian science and art that brings together the best that we have of science and art. Generates scientific and artistic work and gives therefore immeasurable contributions, I would dare say in world terms but also in our therefore Croatian. What I would like to continue with, therefore, is to commend the general activities of the Academy, as the secretary himself stated, during the reporting period of 9th meeting of the Assembly of 114th Scientific Meetings, 95 scientific and professional lectures of 74 book presentations, 79 solemn sessions, 19 foreign delegations were held at the Academy, etc., etc., etc., etc. I think we could list by morning all the activities the Academy has undertaken this year. counterpart Reiner said there was one prejudice about the academy being a closed institution. I agree here, the Academy is working very hard to open up to the public, to popularize scientific work, to popularize the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts as such. And here we will also discuss in just a few days at the County Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County the work plan of the Office of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Osijek which also foresees many activities just open to citizens, according to students, all interested who can be sent to the work of the Academy. But it is also dear colleagues and colleagues more than true that many of our citizens, including many of you colleagues and colleagues sitting here in the Assembly, are not informed of many activities, traditions and values of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I am so sorry to say that last year we witnessed a debate in which some colleagues from the right side of the assembly are in a very contentious tone, here's my personal assessment of what the academy is doing, how the secretary submits a report, where the president of the academy is not knowing that it's a very famous tradition of the academy that it's a secretive honor and duty to file a report, never a president, always a secretary. They also said that the academy was not sufficiently involved in giving an opinion and a solution to the burning problems in society. Well, I'm just thinking the opposite. I think all these numbers that I've counted are more than enough proof of how much the academy has worked. So it wasn't scientific papers about something already overcome, it was about the problems that existed. There was also talk about the Strategy for Education of Science and Technology. I definitely think that date, or today's date when the Government of the Republic of Croatia passed and when the Parliament passes, will be entered in gold letters in Croatian history. This is the first time that we in modern Croatia have come up with a strategy that touches exactly the education of science and technology and we know what that means. This means that we will offer future generations quality education, that after that they will be able to get a job, that they will have knowledge and skills to prepare for the labour market, that means the development of science and technology that should ultimately be the generators of economic development. And here's the point before we had the opportunity to hear that the economy is very well-recognized by our science and wants to participate in the financing and support of science. I would also like to remind you that the strategy of science and technology education, which is the crown document, we can say so, came from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. So, the guidelines for its assembly that I spoke about and I believe when I spoke before about reports on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts but also on other educational points, so the academy made its unmistakable contribution by hitting the foundations and bringing exactly these guidelines. As far as the finances themselves are concerned, I would only touch the authority to say that in finance we can see the wise and responsible management of available resources, which we are used to by the academy so that nothing changes and I am very glad to see it. And we can conclude that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts worked in 2013 to preserve Croatian identity and expressions in science and art and will therefore support this report and support the Social Democratic Party of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82920	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82921	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed academic Rudan, Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. I don't, of course, have to stress specifically, but I'm gonna do it anyway so the HNS will back this report. The Academy was very active in 2013, it's a fact, it's true. 114 scientific meetings, consultations, round tables, many scientific and professional lectures, book presentations, presentations and programs, film screenings, media conferences, open days, night museums, publishing activities, so everything that is both academic Rudan and my predecessors have already mentioned this. I was also going to say something about the strategy that we already discussed and in the replicas we touched, and also colleague Hajdukovic talked about it. So I also want to highlight on behalf of the HNS Club the special involvement of the Academy in discussions on the general development of Croatian education and science in general, and then, of course, on a concrete strategy that was in the government today. Unfortunately, for many years, we have lived in the illusion that we have perfect education and that we are a fantastically educated nation, and then somehow in recent years we have finally experienced this unpleasant enlightenment and sobering in this matter and it is certainly important that the HAZU is included in this debate intensively, permanently, permanently, actively, especially when we talk about the strategy of education, science and technology that we will still succeed with broad support and in this assembly as one of the key documents, not only in the sphere of science and education but generally in this term of this Assembly. The international activity of the academy was also very lively, which is also a tradition. It seems to us that within that it would be convenient to further encourage and how much it is possible to work on these studio residents, as our scientists abroad, as foreign scientists in the Republic of Croatia. These are things that do not have to have a dramatic impact on the overall budget of the Academy, and the same are part of it, we talk about both the presence and the public relations, in the end it is, in some ways, part of the diplomacy of a country in the broadest sense, it is certainly something that we support and needs to be seen further in which it can be strengthened and used more. An important step in 2013 was the reorganisation and revision of the foundation of graphics cabinets after the final move. Two notes only that, somehow from year to year, I bring here, one is, I don't want much of it, academic Rudan probably already hints at it, and in his speech in the first sentences, he mentioned discreetly, it's about the share of women, the share of members in the total number of members in the academy. I don't want to talk about it any more, we discuss it every year, but I have to mention it. In particular, I have said this for one year, especially the award that the Academy is giving shows something else, so the award itself shows that women at least contribute equally to Croatian science as men do. And the second question that has already been mentioned in part is the presence of the Academy in public. I'd actually run it on two colossals. One is the presence of the academy itself as an institution. I agree that the academy has opened up significantly and that the impression it makes in the general public is almost incomparable compared to 10 years ago and over, anyway. However, the second part of the story is the presence of general science, but not in the fact that I say hard terms just presentations of the results of scientific research and everything that is done, but even the ideas of science, knowledge, as the foundation of a modern, over-soldier if I can thus say society and a country too high. There is, of course, a space with all the fences mentioned earlier, which are, inconspicuous of the media, a difficult possibility of breaking into these spheres, but there is certainly a species and a task and responsibility at the academy that this very problematic relationship that people in Croatia have, in part, according to knowledge and science, is also constantly and constantly changing. And I'll end up with something we rarely mention, but it should be pointed out that we Parliamentarians appreciate it very much. Our cooperation, especially us members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, our direct contact with the Academy is through the Academy of Rudan who regularly participates in our sessions and this cooperation is truly both quality and useful and good. I hope for both sides, I hope it stays that way. We of course support this HAZU report with several of these points that are not in any way critical, but are possibly an incentive for some new steps to the future for the academy to be stronger and stronger and more powerful than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82922	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82923	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Coleman, I have actually come to you not to rephrase at all, but to take advantage of this occasion, I publicly admit, to point to one bad practice that concerns all of us, which is that this second we have received a report from the Government on this topic that we are now completing, and at the same time we have received the Government's position on the Annual Report of the CNB which we completed the morning discussion and even more terriblely, on the revision of the annual report on the implementation of the state budget that we completed a complete discussion two days ago. This colleague and colleague is something that puts all of us and you ruling in the position that the government puts you in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82924	Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82925	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It's really not about the subject, but then I'll take the opportunity to answer the question, too, because it seems important to me. I did not say it once in the Croatian Parliament and I stand behind it, I stand behind my words that one of the ways, one of the main ways of keeping the integrity of any institution, and especially institutions as important as the Croatian Parliament, such as the most legislative body in one country, is in this case in the Republic of Croatia, is that both the organisation of work and the way we talk about all this and all of this we do is really at the level of the highest body in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82926	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Iron Flego, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82927	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary. It is doubtless that the Croatian Academy is also an institution of excellence, it is no doubt that it is an umbrella or better said roof institution for science and art and when we sometimes had some critical remarks it was not to challenge the importance of the Croatian Academy but rather to point to some elements that we thought might be better than they were or were. It seems to me that with this new administration of the Academy, it is nearing this goal that I initially mentioned as a kind of preamble so that it should be a roof artistic, scientific institution of excellent women and husbands as Strossmayer says in his first, rather said husband in his first statute. And I'm going to make just a few of my impressions because I have to admit, Mr. Secretary, I haven't read your list from cover to cover but I've spilled it a little bit. The impressions are very positive and therefore regarding the written publication, as well as the direct experience. It seems to me that, fortunately, HAZU is ever more present in public life. And as Coleman said, it's a two-sided presence as an institution, and as a matter of fact, it's a suitable individual. It is almost touching to me with what concern and with what pride you mention the rewarded members and members of your house, which has almost completely disappeared from Croatian public life. Therefore, people who have received appropriate public recognitions for their artistic or scientific activities such as this, thus contributing to the improvement not only of people living in Croatia but of humanity simply because of global activities. Publishing activity is respectable and all public presence. This breakthrough is happening through the media and is increasingly known to read in the media what has been published and what is in the opinion of the reviewer than what has been published. Secondly, the academy opens up to say so directly to the public and I welcome and hope that you will not stop maintaining the public stands. Whenever I had time and whenever I was there, it was a certain experience for me. It was an experience of hearing and learning, an experience in the atmosphere, because it was finally being debated, and opinions were exchanged. So I also believe that statistically if you follow it has more and more interest in such events and it also increases not only interest in the academy but also its reputation. And third, as a roof organization, the academy is increasingly strategically present. The Academy has written guidelines for the development of education, education and science which were of a kind on the one hand an incentive, and on the other hand the basis for the development of this overall strategy, which will probably be more important than the remaining 110 or 115 that have been adopted in the Croatian state because it speaks of the development of these strategic activities such as education, education and science. So, finally, the academy, or the academy presidency, brought its own view of it, so it seems to me that this presence of the academy is significant. I wouldn't mind having HAZU on every significant tragic but therefore economic, political, global event publishing a certain attitude as does the Royal Academy, so the British Academy, as it does in the state of Brandenburg Academy in Berlin, as is the case with Academia Francoise in Paris. And that actually also mobilizes the proper public opinion, and maybe it opens up some horizons that we, because you academics are immortals, which we ordinary mortals don't have insight into. Perhaps a word more about how I would like it if you, I was pleased, Mr Secretary, that you were present and that you directly experienced a debate about the Croatian Foundation for Science and that you heard, saw the concerns of everyone who discussed scientific development. And I would be very pleased if the academy would continue to worry about science in two directions. On the one hand, warning of the good side of scientific development in Croatia, given the terrible diapazon of collaboration with the world, perhaps some lack of science in Croatia, and thus to contribute to the development of science and scientific activities, but on the other hand perhaps more importantly to give me your key contribution to changing the atmosphere of science in Croatia, changing relations with science and scientific activities in Croatia. Remember that in the vast majority of research on what is most precious to scientists in developed and undeveloped countries, the first point is the conditions of scientific research and the second point is, almost regularly, social reputation. And only the third point or fourth is pay, reward, etc. So this change in the position of science, or attitude to science, would be something that seems to me that the Academy could also change, and then it would be another step in opening the Academy directly and indirectly to the public and to the public life. Thank you for that. Another sentence, maybe. In the last stage of your work, you have even improved in human resources policy because you have finally managed to choose among your membership the one in your class or in your domain of activity, which is apparently the largest number of quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82928	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82929	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Flego, I was asked to report when you mentioned the passions of the chief secretary of the HAZU of love I would say read the awards received by academics. Indeed, that is touching, for we rarely attend such moments. However, it has invited me to remind us all a little bit of the fact that academic Milena Žic Fuchs, who was elected a member of the European Academy, is proudly the secretary-general here pointed out by a person whom this Parliament did not consider worthy of putting in the National Scientific Council. We also discussed this on the Committee on Science, and then here and obviously they overcame some other reasons, so no matter what the women who are sub-represented in that body, and also an excellent scientist, here and now rewarded with one of the outstanding awards, it was not enough for politics, the ruling policy to choose, so to the National Scientific Council. Well, I think that's one warning for us to think a little bit about our future criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82930	A fellow Iron Flego, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82931	Comrade Reiner, I am glad that you reminded us of this event because it seems to me that appropriate lessons should be taken from painful experiences. I'm sorry that you did this on the replica of my exposure after everything that's been going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82932	They say no one is a prophet in their village. Mr. Rudan, Mr. Paul Rudan's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82933	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Believe me, I'm very touched. You've set many wonderful examples, pointed out, directed how and what to do. Thank you very much. I was proud to talk about the members of the Academy who got certain medals, because the poor people who don't respect their institutions, who himself or allow others to relativize their own system of values and identities. In your discussions, I felt wonderful support for our Academy and believe me that I share the opinion of all of my members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts to thank you for your magnificent support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82934	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82935	Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 109 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82936	And now we will unite as agreed in the debate - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the postwar period for 2013 and - Report on the work of the Committee for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the Cemetery of the postwar period 2013 The Reporter for the First Report is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee and the War Veterans Committee, and you received reports at the session. For this second report, the applicant shall be the Commission pursuant to Article 7. Laws on research, arrangement, maintenance of military cemeterys, the cemetery of victims of World War II and the postwar period. The debate was also conducted by the Defence Committee and the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session, and the introduction will explain both reports by the minister who is also the chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr Predrag Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82937	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here on behalf of the Department of Defense, I would briefly file this report. I'll try to be as brief as possible, and later on, we can answer some questions. So, as I said at the government when we presented this report, I said it was a small law but very important for our nation's mental health, because given the years since World War II ended, unfortunately in some's minds, it's not over yet. We are here to help resolve this finally and to leave history to historians, to end World War II in people's heads. Despite everything that I asked you last year when we represented this law, of course it's just a utopian request to give me time and give me a chance to show in a year and show what we're going to do. I was exposed to the terrible, my small-time Colonel Gruic, who runs the Department itself for Incarcerated and Missing, we were exposed to unkind attacks. Of course, this has continued to this day, and even today I read in the daily press these attacks. The results and facts are on one side, and ideology is obviously on another side. So, I'd like to brief you on some of the goals and something we've spent over the past year. So, the report in question, which the parliamentary committees saw as said by the vice president and unfortunately did not accept again because it was voted again, ideologically 5 is for, 6 is against, but well my God. The subject-matter report summarises the review of the activities carried out by the legal prescribed work cycle in the past year in certain fields and contains the results of the work of the Ministry of Defence, and is prepared for the first time for the submission of the report in the last year to the Government and the Croatian Parliament. Despite fierce criticism and attacks by individuals and some institutions without politicising ideological motives, the ministry was guided by the principle that the victim was a victim. This first report shows that the government has fulfilled its mission and achieved the main strategic objective of the law, which is to preserve the memory of all the victims in World War II and the postwar period. The collection of data and carrying out their own research cover 82 locations of potential graves of 2nd World War victims and the postwar period in 16 counties and the City of Zagreb. A total of 16 sites have been investigated, and a total of 315 remains have been exhumed, of which the remains of 271 persons are properly permanently taken care of. According to the law, the ministry implemented a broad data collection campaign of all 556 units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb, of which 299 provided data to the ministry. On August 23rd, the European Day of Remembrance was marked on the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes by the memorial of victims killed in the Jazovka pit and the Jadovno concentration camp near Gospić as a symbolic death of both. The ministry organised and implemented from project to realization the setting and discovery of the first mention of the traits that the Republic of Croatia established on the basis of the law in memory of 15 victims of the communist regime in Tupala on December 30th last year. Law enforcement would not be without the successful work of the commission, the Committee for Research, and the arrangement and maintenance of military cemeterys, graves of victims of World War II and cemeteries of the post-war period. In the past year, through 4 sessions since its establishment of 11 April last year, it has been through a demonstration of significant measures and activities adopted by the commission with intentional achievement of effective law enforcement, some of the things. A strategy for the implementation of the law under which the priority in implementing exhumations will be the requirements of the competent judicial authorities and those requirements for exhumation concerning public interest such as infrastructure works, and proposals of 3 regulations prescribed by the law necessary for its implementation have been adopted and agreed that the uniform text of the inscriptions should contain information on the victim, the crime and the perpetrator and that the commission will propose a text on the circumstances of suffering for each particular location. It is concluded that the first mention of the mark is placed in Tupala son of Otočac which is set up. So, those most basic problems we've had, which people have actually had, I'm not going to say all 70, but the last 20 years have been brought to the table and agreed on conditionally speaking to one side and the other, which have been a challenge all these 20 years. So we set three basic definitions, the monuments will say that there are victims of the communist regime, that there are victims of the Ustasha regime or that there are victims of all totalitarian regimes. Believe 3 short sentences, 3 short definitions took a lot, a lot of conversation, a lot, a lot of consent and a lot of naturally good will for everyone to accept it. It's not one side, so the fundamental problem that we have all these years is that everyone recognizes their victims, and those others as if they weren't. Fortunately, we have succeeded that the others before us are not and we are very proud and I thank all the members of the commission, and it should be said that the members of the committee are representatives of all state bodies, institutions, organisations, institutes, religious communities and other bodies dealing with the topic are related to the law and that they are joint representatives of the alliances of anti-fascist fighters and anti-fascists of the Republic of Croatia, the Association of Croatian Domobians, who have contributed to the successful implementation of the laws by their contributions in cooperation. So in one year, we've done a lot more than some people have talked about, and for the past 20 years they haven't done much. And lastly, for the first time yesterday, we identified one of the victims of the 2nd World War from Brac, and I can tell you that Colonel Grujic and Bishop Bogovic, who had a lot of reluctance, even ended up in court. After Bishop Bogovic came out with us to exhume the remains of the post-war crimes from the communist regime when 32 people were killed in the village of Ivesici in the area of Ličko-Senj County and thrown into the pit. When he saw what kind of professionalism we're dealing with all the victims, I can tell you that they've dropped each other's charges and that they're not exactly good friends. The parliamentary committees, unfortunately, have not accepted the report, which says that World War II despite all the efforts for some yet, and it does not seem to want to end. I'm sorry about that, but the ministry that I'm currently headed for, just for the captured and missing, the commission will continue with the same ferocity, working with the same intensity with a firm conviction that our efforts will still be carried out one day and will yield results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82938	Thank you very much. Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82939	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82940	Madam Vice President, you must react.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82941	Hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82942	Mr. Secretary has no right to evaluate the work of the Assembly Committees. It may have an opinion, but here you have no right to express it. You can wave your hands all you want, but you have to have a basic rule of conduct. And you simply don't have the right to lecture on how the Assembly Committees work and how they voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82943	He didn't give a lesson, he found only a vote on the board. Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82944	Same thing, Madam Vice President. Ministers, you have nothing to comment as an executive officer on the work of the Parliamentary Committees and how to make decisions on the Parliamentary Committees. It is known in the democratic system who oversees it, not the executive power of the legislative authority, but the process is the other way around. And once and for all, you need and you must accept, and I am also surprised to you, Madam Vice President, that you have not responded to such a performance by the minister and warned the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82945	Replica response, Minister Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82946	So, as Madam Vice President said, it was just a finding. If I've offended someone, I'm sorry, but here, I can repeat it or it's been recorded somewhere, I'm not sure, nor thought, nor taught you a lesson, I just said it was 6, 5 and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82947	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82948	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I will react to this part where you said that after 70 years that someone finally did something. I disagree because you have succeeded in one intention, and you have turned one law in a completely different direction, and the report shows that this direction is going very well. So we had the Law on Marking, Marking and Finding, Marking and Maintaining the Graves of Victims of Communist Crimes after II. The World War, so you renamed it the Law on Research, Editing and Maintaining Military Cemeteries, the Cemeteries of Victim II. World War II and the postwar period. And then we got a report the way it is. From 80 locations, 60 refers to II. World War I, only 20 for the postwar period. This report doesn't say a word of the Communist crime victim anywhere, as you put it on that monument that you opened, that is, in Sinac, that's where the victims of the communist crime are written. It's a post-war period for you here, so for us MPs, it's a post-war break. For victims and those who have to express their piety, these are victims of a communist crime. You're trying to hide the obvious facts. And that shows statistics. You've only finished investigating three locations, you've said something about it, so Sinac, Jaklanj and Gracani, and everything else is II. The World War and that, when this law was passed, we were right to warn. You'll tell your story, of course, everyone's worth the pie, we all have to investigate, but the story of II. The World War, which we warned, has already been resolved by another legal proposal. Now it's all nice to put into one mold and let's tell a story about success that no one in 70 has managed to solve that question until you came of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82949	Minister, will you answer? ... Replica response, Minister Predrag Matic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82950	So, for those who are a little more forgetful, just two sentences of reminder. Before the election, you passed an ad hoc law which, only briefly, is just facts, so the Office is... The office was founded for that year when we reintegrated it and put it into the Department of Defense, the results of that office were bought Yep, procurement, sea, sea things, up to 70,000 kuna, which I showed you on the last report and [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The D.A.'s office was the one. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Fellow Boric. You have a chance...]] So, the law is also passed, it is, you're going to criticise me again, but that's what we say in the jargon, one funny law, so in which the Ministry of Defence pays, as a matter of fact, the Croatian language is very rich, and under the word of research, we had a different approach and I think it was a fundamental reason. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Excuse me Minister. You have a chance to argue, don't throw it out of the bench.]] So someone thought who was here before us that the search, search, search, conviction, judgment, criticism, we figured it out differently, we explored it like hunting dogs, find and mark, mark, and next to us are always on the investigation and representatives of the State's Attorney and Police who will continue to carry out the same word of research, but some other procedures. So, if you had come to Sinac, and you were all invited, let someone tell me, it was not right for former representatives of anti-fascism or partisan, the big, huge letters say, victims of the communist regime, the state's mark. Unfortunately, I agree with you, Mr. Boric, that you are, all of Croatia is filled with cemeteries, pits and tombs from II. The World War and the postwar period, so in Sinac, the monument was marked by victims who died in '46. For years, so after the war and we'll keep going, we have the means, we can't, it takes a hundred years, I think we mark all the victims of the regime and all the victims, both of them and the victims together, but we're working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82951	Thank you. Now, I don't know. Comrade Boric, you have now had a replica. Then we're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in the debate is the HDSSB club and counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82952	Here, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs, I honestly have nothing against this pace with which the minister began the debate on these two reports. After all, here's a little bit at this time we're all going to live together and we're going to remember what's going on around these two reports. I am one of those who voted on the committee against accepting these reports for a simple principle reason. Because I was and stayed against the abolition of the Communist Crimes Research Office and what, what we will not agree on, but it is that you and Colonel Grujic are not the ones who do the division between these and those and also that the question of communist crimes after II. World War II is not a practice. World War I. So there was, the point was to investigate communist crimes since the end of II. World War II until the establishment of the Croatian state. So it's in there, it's not II anymore. World War I. So it's not anymore, it's not Ustasha and Partizani. Of course, this story about Ustasha and Partisans is that the thesis and that story that is constantly involved and imposes on those who have certain interests that these crimes committed in times of communism will never be investigated very likely also will be never, since their actors or perpetrators of these crimes will not be, to the greatest extent, more or less, in years to come will no longer be available to the Croatian judiciary. So the problem of communist crimes and their research is not the problem of World War II. But persistently and continuously, for perfectly clear and well-known reasons, certain actors and protagonists of these events and those circles that wish never to come out, of course, are constantly trying to push these things into the period and events related to World War II. Although communism is as the greatest evil of the 20th century with fascism is very clearly recognized in European modern history, there are no doubts, there is no doubt about what was communism and what was Yugoslav communism and what was the malignant plague of the jugories from '45 to '90. And since I was and stayed against shutting down that office and I will be obliged to re-establish the Office for the Research of Communist Crimes after the change of government, of course I cannot accept the shutting down of the office, putting under the rug the topic of investigation of communist crimes in the period after the end of World War II to the establishment of the Croatian state and then focus the whole problem on the cemetery. Now that we're talking about the graves of victims and the 2nd World War and the Communist regime, you have done in this context certain steps have been made and it's okay and it's good that it's done. I hope that what you said won't happen is that this process will take another 100 years, and I don't think there's any need for that to happen at some point in a few years, but there could still be a good part of those cemeteries that none of us need to be specifically explored, but people living in these places know more or less where they are that as far as possible, no matter how many of those places are possible, and regardless of the victims, to mark those places and to place those features. Personally, I am not impressed by the kind of traits chosen but here's the commission in which experts have dominated it. They defined it in a completely neutral way. As far as the content of these features is concerned, it seems acceptable to me even though I lack the word South-Communist since we had a defined communist regime, but we could. I know it bothers some, and I'm sorry to bother them, what are you gonna do? We all have a problem, but hold on. To those who are bothered by this constant mention of communist crimes, it's hard to face but it's happened. How do you think it just bothered our predecessors before the '90s who were here actors in these same places? Therefore, it is necessary to endure and face it, as we have also faced it, and we need to face the Ustasha crimes, Chetnic crimes, the crimes of the NDH regime, and we cannot escape them and we do not need to escape them in any form of marking, that is, all those markings of the cemetery and the places of liquidation and their worthy marking, of course. But the problem of investigating communist crimes is that this model was put under the carpet, it was put under the carpet. Researching communist crimes in the period from '45 to '90, you and Colonel Grujic and others who participated in this model put you under the rug. It's a fundamental observation to this model, not what seems to be about marking the cemetery and it's good to seem. You will have our support to continue to mark it this way with this feature, with this text that exists, and if it is possible that as many places as possible to liquidate people entirely independently of which and in which circumstances simply be marked. It is clear that the problem is also that many families would like to know where their grandfathers are, and that the identification process is quite expensive and quite slow and that it is very difficult to do, but where there is a possibility it would be good for grandchildren, children grandchildren and others, so those who come from the victims who are in these pits as much as possible to part, at least part of those victims who find themselves trying to identify. And because of that, and not only because of the content of this report, I was against it, as we will be against both reports as HDSSB's club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82953	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82954	Dear fellow Djurovic, you told him that this problem of researching the cemetery is not and should not be a war between Ustasha and Partisans, and I definitely agree. It's a good thing you said you shouldn't have abolished this Office for finding and marking the graves of the victims of the communist regime and that you were against it, just because it was an independent body that wasn't or should have been subject to the influence of politics precisely because of these victims and giving away pieties to those victims. I am sure that the purpose and purpose of this law was obviously not to reveal the truth, especially the truth about the victims of the communist regime because this law should actually apply. And then you finally mentioned the totalitarian regime of communism and Nazism. It's true, but it should always be said, Nazism as such was killing people in the name of supremation... The races and the communists killed their people in the name of that people, because that's what the verdict always said, in the name of the people. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82955	Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82956	Yes, my colleague and I agree on the characteristics of both regimes, but that's not an integral part of this story right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82957	On behalf of SDSS, a colleague of Mile Horvat's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82958	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, we appreciate that you have come here to Parliament to defend this report and we also respect the efforts that you and your people have made so far to try to liven up a law that was quite disputable when you were just bringing it in and in the last term we started talking about it, so we ended up adopting this by adopting it in this term. So you tried to pull something out of him that would, of course, be difficult to fit all of us. So what's going to fit one, it's not going to fit the other, and I'm going to have some objections here to certain components of that report. Of course it's always the discussion of the victims of the war in '41, '45. or some other victims are very ungrateful and inexorably painful because it is simply about human fates, losses, etc.. On Sunday, when we were in Jadovna, then the Jewish rabbi, the esteemed Moshe Prelevic, told the history of a very strong sentence, said "Every man is one whole world to himself. And by taking this one life we practically take one whole world." And that's kind of the essence of these discussions of ours. And for that reason, of course, for some other reason, we at the SDSS Club have been working through the debates that this fundamental law is done as well as it can be done in order for him to have this painful topic to liven up in one real way to satisfy the victims first and foremost. So we claim that the victims of all the sites of the victims are equal, that the victims of all the sites should be found, marked, that everyone can and should be allowed to light the candles, to know where his grave is. And that's the thing that shouldn't be for any of us here either controversial, or disputable. But then we said that we should follow certain principles there. For us, the two principles were very important. Order how we're gonna do it. That's when we said the first order of business was to take care of civilians, victims of war. First civilians and then members of various troops, various armies, etc. But first of all, they have to find sites and identify civilians, victims of all wars, and war in '41, '45. And the other thing that we said, which is very important to us as far as military cemeteries are concerned, is that we work so that the explanations of marking these military cemeteries and the signs that we raise are not in the sense of some ideological assumption or their policies, but simply being a feature and a feature of broadcasting primarily to human victims. These are some of the things that we thought should be respected in principle and in the work of realising this law or in the work of the administration. You here in your report very correctly told the reasons why so far in this past 20-year period it has not been possible to do so, so exhume, identify, mark and give a debt to all the victims of the war in '41, '45. And a period after the war in '45. Because here you said that the permanent maintenance of the military, therefore, was not arranged for the permanent maintenance of military cemetery in the territory of the Republic of Croatia normative. So dealing with newly discovered military cemeterys and civilian victims' graves II. The World War was not arranged, the protection of military cemetery by persons from the territory of the Republic of Croatia abroad was not normably arranged. And that was the reason for this impasse, we have now passed this law and there we have said very important things to us. All deadly victims in II. The World War and the postwar period have the right to a decent, eternal resting place. And the second thing, preserving the memory of the victims of war, the postwar period, and decent treatment is the obligation of the state. Why the government's obligation? Because I'm going to say something later, where we see it's not exactly what we've been doing here with this law. The administration is formed, the ministry is competent with its administration, units of local self-government are responsible for implementing this law and probably for marking all memorials of the cemetery and all monumental complexes that are outside the jurisdiction of this law. Probably because someone has to be, because someone has to be responsible for it, too. We see that the authorities of the administration are large and the practical management of your ministry is the main address for all problems, i.e. all the jobs and all the demands that this problem is looking for. So now we have a known address, and we'll probably follow it, we have certain requirements. We arrive at the work of the administration in 2013 where you were said here to have investigated 16 locations. 25 locations are prepared for test excavations and 41 locations are in the research process so then you gave us a table here and it's a very important thing to discuss, we see actually the structure of these tests. I would not agree with my colleague who had previously said that the most important part was the victims of the period of war in '41. By '45. We've seen that since '45. And after '45, and mostly from the fact that the war officially ended most of the research you processed those victims, dedicated them to those victims. So here we see Gradiška, an unknown number of war civilians, 9 May '45, and then we see Dubrovnik 110 members of the NDH army, so we see the Dubrovnik coast, members of the German army, and then we see 300 people after 9 May in Ogulin, and then we see here 20 German soldiers in the General Table, we see also that thousands of natives, Ustasha, German civilians in Đurmanec, etc. After 9 May '45. So that's a fact, that's what you've shown us here. So the question arises whether we're done with facts before '45. In the year, did we have that part of history absorbed if we're dealing with 9.5.'45. I'm afraid that setting things up like this gets another finding and that the effect is achieved, so the victims of the communist regime. That was actually the goal, that was the purpose of this law. And when we brought it in, we warned that finally the implications of this law would be exactly that, exactly the equalization of the facts of events and victims by '45. And after '45. A year. And with this selective dig, you've practically confirmed it. Here on page 20 you are talking about the way you made the first marking at the site Tupale-Sinac. One mentioned was raised here. I share my opinion with my colleague that we can discuss the authorial work. You conducted the contest here, you chose the best idea solution, so uniformly, we will universally bury the victims of everyone we find today. With such a monumental feature of artistic impression, I don't like it, and I don't think we can mark the victims of civilians, women and children in the same way as the victims of some armies, especially the defeated armies. We can't unbalance the victim that way. It probably cost each other the same, and it would probably be much more creative, artistic and better artistic creations if they put it in a different way. So those who have opened the tender for the competition and the elements for the competition have purposely done so and we say this is not good for us. It is also not acceptable to mark the text, you said it would be short, it would be the victims of the Ustasha regime, the victims of the communist regime and the victims of all totalitarian regimes. We disagree, it is unacceptable for it to be so and unacceptable to be a victim of the communist regime because someone was killed in '45. A year. The communist regime did not even exist at the time, it needs to be educated. It was created in some kind of sociological, political sense when the state consolidated, when it went to the first elections, and when it really became a party state. Until then, they are the victims of the folk's liberating struggles of anti-fascist struggles. Whatever you want, but in any case, he's not a victim of the communist regime. The victim of the communist regime can't be in '45, it could be the complete Goli Island regime, it could be Goli Island, but the victim of '45. It's not the same. It's not the same. Someone was killed in the end of the war for what reasons, in the context of an anti-fascist struggle, and someone was the victim, as someone in my family was after 7-8 years. And don't pimp them out under the same denominator. And the third key thing that we don't understand here is, so we've just led this category of victims under this law. What about the monuments, with 3000 monuments of NOB's characteristics that have been destroyed and are being torn down, stand rooted in a country that has formed on anti-fascism, which has entered Europe as an anti-fascist state. What about Petrova Gore? Robbed anything that could have been robbed, sold into kilos. What about Dudik in Vukovar, that's close to you. How is it possible to build a football field in this memorial complex and play football today? What about the monument in... the breach of the Sreme front, the beating battle, the greatest in the end of the war on this part of Europe. A broken record, we embarrass ourselves, delegations come, crowns are laid, and a broken panel is broken. Probably a monument would be mined if it wasn't that big. Do we need this as a state, a modern European state? So does that record cost that much? It's costing 2,000 kuna to put it on. No, we have no political will. And that's why I asked who cares about those 3,000 monuments now. You care about this part, I agree, you try to do your job. Who cares about 3,000 monuments that lie torn down. In Sloboština the monument was torn down and there was an exhibition of pumpkins on it. There's a guy named Jovan, and there's a pumpkin standing there, saying the pumpkin show, the Bundevida in Slobostina. I have a picture, I'll show you. Isn't that a shame? I don't speak ideologically, I'm not burdened by it, but as a man I ask because it's not our national shame that we brought ourselves into this situation to speak as a country of European fluids, recognized, respected, and here we are making a circus out of what Europe is getting up to. We're going to a celebration of D-day in Normandy, we're boasting we're participants, and here we put on a monument to these people we put pumpkins on. So that's my question, Mr. Minister, whether this administration is finally going to start dealing with these things, or whether the state, since it's committed to taking care of all the monuments, will take care of these 3,000 monuments that have been destroyed. And finally your budget fund was two million kunas for all of this, I think the general illusion at the end is to say that you can do some important things with 2 million and 55 thousand kunas spent. So if the state doesn't realize that this is a social problem that requires a little more funding, a slightly stronger position in the budget, then we're talking a vain story here, then it's a declarative thing. Because you, with 2 million kunas, can't even make a monument for Private Granny. And we had a great time with Vojin Bakić, and we're very proud of it when we go abroad, when we go to the Venice Biennale, and when his monument is to be raised here, then he's not because he's a Serb, then he's not answering us as an artist and as a sculptor. But it's good for a team outside the world. These two arches aren't very good to us, and I'm pleading that we as a society get serious, that the institutions get heavy and that we set things right, that things should be settled right, and then there won't be a problem with these things being carried out. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I respect and praise your efforts to bring this law to life, but there are things that you still need to work on to make it an acceptable report for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82959	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82960	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat your presentation is almost identical to that of the Union of anti-fascist fighters and anti-fascists of the Republic of Croatia which they issued after the adoption of such a form of law. Here's just a few hints from that statement. I can't literally quote everything, but I'll try. If every unearthed skeleton of the deceased without identifying the victims of a communist crime, then it's politics. The mention of children in Article 4 of this Law is malicious. They weren't like that except in the proposal's imagination. Dead persons from a historical war stand and should not be treated as anyone's victim, victims of a communist crime, it's a purely political-ideological structure. You have money for the tombs of unidentified victims, but you don't have the monuments of anti-fascist combat. So, about what you've mentioned here, and all of your remarks going to the report on the implementation of this law. But there are also positive examples. You say no one cares about monuments of anti-fascist combat. I'm a witness. There's a reconstruction of the state road on Rab. On that road, there was a monument like that. He was moved at the cost of Croatian roads, had to buy land and make it identical in one other place. Now he's in front of the chapel, looking at the star in the chapel, and everyone's happy. That's all the fiction of our time. But we're once again warning that someone deliberately turned one different form of law into something else, into a mixer where everything becomes the same. And then you get a report like this where you can't determine exactly what it's about, and I'm saying that out of those 80 locations that are numbered here, and you didn't count 60 well refer to a war period, and 20 to a post-war period and no mention of victims of communist times anywhere. It's not mentioned in a single word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82961	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82962	I thank my colleague, Boric. So, I haven't read a statement from anti-fascist fighters, I've been preparing this yesterday and today. Obviously, we are in some kind of thinking, obviously our thoughts are closer to real life and to what we know. I guess we read something. So, I wasn't keeping track of their report. I agree that there are cases like the Croatian roads moved and that is, however, why this would be a rare example, so it should be a practice. But I'm telling you, we still have 2200 and some such monuments today in 2014. And that's our tragedy. So I think we should do this one mental, one social hygiene, and that sort of thing out if we want to declare ourselves out as an anti-fascist state of the European community. That's all I'm talking about, and the minister himself said in the introduction that on the first monument it was written that they were victims of communist terror. It's the minister himself. I didn't make it up. Yes, that's what the minister himself said. So it's all a clear fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82963	On behalf of SDP representative Zeljko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82964	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me, with a few sentences, address the rest of the reports here. In order to improve the legal framework for the deaths of the Second World War and the post-war period, and in the spirit of humane treatment of victims, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Research, Regulation and maintenance of the World War II victims' military cemetery and the post-war period which for the first time dealt with the issue of treatment against the remains of the victims of World War II and the post-war period. The Law on the Research and Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, Cemeteries of Victims of World War II and the post-war period has made Croatia an obligation to preserve the victims of World War II and post-war period, and ensures equal relations with all victims of World War II and post-war period. Furthermore, all groups of victims, military and civilian victims of World War II, members of the foreign armed forces, victims of the post-war period, ensure a higher level of protection and preservation of memory of victims, increase resources for more effective and dynamic problem-solving. A normative and organisational infrastructure was established in accordance with the law which allowed the tasks prescribed by law to be fulfilled. In cooperation with the Commission, a law implementing strategy under which the priority in the implementation of exhumation will have the requirements of the competent judicial authorities and those requirements for exhumation concerning public interest as infrastructure works has been adopted. This applies in particular, as has already been mentioned, to local and regional self-government units. The collection of data and carrying out their own research cover 82 locations of potential graves of World War II victims and postwar periods located in 16 counties and the City of Zagreb. There's already been a mention of these locations, so I'm going to mention them. From 82 locations to 47 locations, a survey has been launched on citizens' or citizens' associations' applications, and for 25 locations a survey has been launched on the orders of the competent judicial authorities while for 10 locations research has been launched by the basis of the reporting of units of local self-government. These 82 locations are located in 3 degrees of research. 16 locations have been investigated in 6 counties and the City of Zagreb, prepared for trial excavations, meaning up to the level of reasonable doubt in the existence of mass and individual graves of the victims of World War II and the postwar period of 25 locations. There are 41 other locations in the research process. Of the 16 sites investigated at 2 locations, data from orders of county state lawyers have not been confirmed but research is still being carried out at one location. Exhumed remains are not from the jurisdiction of the law and at 13 locations total exhumed remains of 315 persons are exhumed. According to data provided by the local self-government unit, the existence of 18 military cemeterys, 6 graves of civilian war victims, 5 graves of victims of World War II, 7 graves of post-war victims, 7 cemeterys of soldiers of foreign armed forces and 79 monuments of skeletons and 71 mentions of the mark. This data suggests that over the past period, the commission has had a lot of work and that it has been satisfactory and done. It should also be mentioned that we and the signatories of some international agreements and agreements, as well as the Committee for Research, Editing, Maintaining Military Cemeteries, Cemeteries are victims of World War II and Cemeteries of the post-war period. The basic tasks in the area of inter-state cooperation are prescribed by law, meaning the implementation of concluded international contracts and participation in the preparation of new international contracts with countries with which interest and the need for appropriate contractual arrangements of the area is established. It can be mentioned that we have so far three contracts, meaning with the Federal Republic of Germany, the Government of the Italian Republic and we also have an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The lack of central records of military cemeterys and cemeteries of victims of World War II and the post-war cemetery at the level of the Republic of Croatia as assumptions of their systematic and permanent maintenance and adequate monitoring of the maintenance was one of the reasons for the adoption of this law. And in the end, I'd just like to tell you the basics of the work of a committee that was meeting on a regular basis. I don't know. They've had four sessions in the past year, and they've done a couple of agendas on those sessions. Most important to me, it means marking August 23rd of the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. It is also important to note that certain mentions of meaning were held in the premises of the Croatian State Archives from 14th to 28th November 2013 in the tendering process for the design of an idea and fine urban and architectural solution mentioning the markings for victims of World War II and post-war period, and also the Ministry of Defence opened a tender for the production of an ideaable art and urban and architectural solution on 21st of October 2013. A total of 30 papers arrived at the competition, most of which were selected by the evaluation court in Ivan Gruić, Assistant Minister, Nenad Gonja, graduate engineer, Tanja Abramović, Head of the Second World War Victims Sector and the post-war period of the Ministry of Defence, Allen Korkut, academic sculptor and professor Goran Rako, graduate architect of architecture. On 30 December 2013, in Tupala-Sinc, the first mention of the mark was discovered by the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the Law on the Research and Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of World War II and the postwar period as a reminder of the victims of the post-war period. It's two tombs that exhumed the remains of 15 people killed by the communist regime in September '46. A year. The SDP club will support these two reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82965	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82966	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. A report on the implementation of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of World War II and the postwar period for 2013 and the report on the work of the Committee for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Voluntary Cemeteries, the cemetery of victims of the Homeland War and the cemetery of the postwar period for 2013. War, or wars and the consequences of wars, are the most traumatic social experiences of individuals, states, peoples, and nations. Wars are devastating political means that put desolation in countries and societies, and which, after their completion, require countries, societies and individuals to make special efforts in restoring and reconstructing personal lives, but the state institution and refining social values. Individuals go to war in various ways, from various motives and with various goals. Some go voluntarily, some voluntarily mobilize, some are forced to mobilize, some are running away from their present, some are hoping for a better future, some want to express patriotism, others are personal heroism, some are simply going to defend their country, their home. Historically, these are mostly younger people and most men, more or less in the tension of forces that are made available to some higher goals of patriotism, defense of their home, nationalism and ideologies, or simply the fate of a historic moment. And no one goes to war except for some exceptions to religious warfare, with the aim of dying, but in wars they die. History later states whether any party in warfare was right or wrong, just or unfair. But the fact is that after the wars, the bodies of the dead civilians and soldiers who, regardless of the historical valorisation, all deserve to be found, marked, and unable to find their relatives adequately buried and marked. For decades, Croatia has had a problem with unexplored sites and cemeterys of dead soldiers and 2nd World War civilians and post-war periods. And finally, the state took on the obligation to solve this problem, and with the last change of the legal framework it really and effectively began to do so. The purpose of this new law is to preserve the memory of all the victims in World War II and the postwar period. In accordance with international humanitarian law and in accordance with the principles and rules in dealing with the dead provided for in the provisions of the Geneva Conventions of August 49 on the supplementary protocols of 77th year on the protection of victims of international armed conflicts in accordance with the resolution on the international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist order, i.e. the regimes won by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in January 2006, in accordance with the European Parliament's resolution of April 2009 on European consciousness, conscience and totalitarianism, and in accordance with the position of the Republic of Croatia that military and civil persons who, due to the war in the 2nd World War and the post-war period, have the right to a decent eternal resting place. And questions are being addressed from the meaning of research, editing and decent duration, the maintenance of post-war victims' graves, and the keeping of records of individual and mass graves of post-war victims and the number of post-war remains identified therein. Relocation, decent disposal of the remains of victims of World War II and the postwar period when it is in the public interest or if the remains were found in infrastructure, urban or other works and their recording. The permanent marking of the voluntary cemetery and the cemetery of civilian victims of war and after-war victims, the execution of the obligation to investigate and arrange the graves of the victims of the post-war period and the keeping of records of the sites and the number of victims found in it, and the treatment of the remains of the victims of the 2nd World War and of the victims of the post-war period and of their decent care and of the decent permanent marking of the military cemetery, the cemetery of the victims of the 2nd World War and the victims of the post-war period, in accordance with the provisions of this law, all took over the Republic of Croatia on themselves. The law came into force on 1 January 2013, and the implementation of the law is in charge of the Ministry of Defence, Local Self-Government Units and the City of Zagreb, the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the Cemetery of the Post-war Period. According to the law, the ministry systematically investigates the cemetery and cemetery of post-war victims and keeps records of individual and mass graves victims of the post-war period and of the number of remains found therein. As it is mainly about unmarked and covered grave sites that are yet to be identified and explored, the ministry is a cooperative, i.e. a management that is operationally carrying out those tasks has adapted the methods of collecting data and analysis and the method of research to the ultimate objective, which is as economical as possible using existing resources and knowledge of other institutions as accurately and more reliablely as possible to identify the places where mass graves from the jurisdiction of the law are located. By collecting data from these sources and conducting its own research, the ministry, i.e. the administration, included 82 locations of possible sites of 2nd World War victims' cemetery and postwar periods in 16 counties and the City of Zagreb. These 82 locations are located in 3 degrees of research as already said, 16 locations have been explored in preparation for test excavations of 25 locations and in the research process 41 locations. From 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013, a total of 16 locations in 6 counties and the City of Zagreb were investigated during this report, from which 315 remains were exhumed. Since the new law was passed and since the commission has been working within the Defence Ministry, the success and efficiency of finding cemetery has increased by over 200 times. In accordance with the conclusion of the Committee for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of the 2nd World War and the cemetery of the post-war period, the first mention of the features that the Republic of Croatia has ever set on the basis of the law to mark the victims of the post-war period was officially revealed at the site... 30 December 2013. The European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian systems has been established by the European Parliament declaration of 23 August 2008 on the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of Stalinism and Nazism, confirmed at point 15. Resolutions of the European Parliament, the European Consciousness of Totalitarianism 02 April 2009 which calls for the declaration of 23 August on the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and the commemoration of this day with dignity and impartiality. The Law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioning days and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, 2011 introduced a new mention of the day, the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and it is marked as in Europe on 23 August. And finally, one of the most unfortunate and in my opinion the most unnecessary experiences of any individual, but the state and society is war. Unfortunately, in its history, Croatia has been constantly exposed to almost all the local and global wars in which Croatia has always been a victim. Croatia has also had some negative or minor episodes related to various wars, but Croatia as a state has never been in the history of conquering wars. This often war and war on the ground of the Republic of Croatia has left many negative consequences. More than once, the loss of sovereignty through the decimation of the population, the post-traumatic, the destruction,... of homes, monuments, institutions. After each war, the institution of the state always starts to rebuild, and each such transition requires additional new energy, money, time. Every new construction of the state institutions is a painful process for individuals and society as a whole. Today, we can look proudly at the past and look with optimism at the future, after such a tumultuous war history, Croatia is today an independent, independent member state of NATO and the EU, the United Nations. Croatian people and all citizens of Croatia have managed to resist and preserve their national cultural identity through centuries of unusual and incredible vigor. And that is why it is important for everyone and everyone who has fought and died in wars on the ground of today's Republic of Croatia, regardless of which side, to discover the place of death, mark it, and give it a well-deserved pitet. HNS Liberal Democrats supports the report on the implementation of the Law on Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the cemetery of Victims II. The World War and the postwar period for 2013 and the report on the work of the Commission for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of the Homeland War and the cemetery of the postwar period for 2013. Minister, we have the impression you're doing a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82967	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82968	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the HDZ Club will not support the report on the implementation of the Law on Research, Planning, the maintenance of military cemeterys, the cemetery of victims II. The World War and the postwar period for 2013. We can agree and accept as a positive fact that there are results in the discovery, exploration of mass graves created in II. The World War and... by the communist regime and we don't dispute or question them. In fact, we support these results, but neither today nor when the law is passed, we can accept the argument to derrogate the Law on Finding, Marking, keeping the graves of victims of communist crimes after II. World War I, and especially for shutting down the newly established Office for finding and marking the graves of victims of the communist regime as an independent legal person. By shutting down the independent body of the Office for the Finding and Marking of Graves, you have violated the resolution on the European conscience and totalitarianism adopted by the Council of Europe in 2009 which determines that honoring communist victims is the basis for further co-existence, stresses the importance of keeping memories of victims because there cannot be reconciliation without truth and memory. The resolution particularly highlights the importance beyond the political resolution of this historic issue, but instead of such an approach, the current government acts exactly the opposite. It shuts down the office as an independent body and discovery business, researching the graves of victims of the communist regime under the patronate of the government and the Croatian Defence Ministry. Therefore, not that this report is unacceptable to us, but it is unacceptable to us to law on research, arrangement, maintenance of military cemetery, cemetery of victims of II. World War II and the postwar period. The purpose and purpose of this law was obviously not to reveal the truth, especially about the victims of the communist regime, because that period would be subject to the law, but to cover up and relativize what the very name of the laws that victims of the communist regime are not mentioned, and sacrificial graves from II. World War II has long been investigated and graves properly marked and maintained. History is repeated as in 2002 when Racan's government abolished the commission for war and war victims and transferred work to the Ministry of Science. Neither should the Ministry of Science nor today, the Croatian Defence Ministry should have anything to do with the victims of communist crimes after the 2nd World War, but the whole job should be run by independent bodies as was the case with a shut down office. This avoids any further politicisation and use of victims and this true national tragedy for daily political purposes. The graves and victims of all crimes, whether they're fascist or communist, should be investigated and marked. Victims deserve compassion, understanding, and recognition of suffering. And we and future generations of truth as the foundation of reconciliation, but not in the way that the existing law and the current power implements this law wants. Therefore, the HDZ cannot support the report on the implementation of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemeteries of Victims of World War II and the postwar period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82969	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. He's a colleague of Josip Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82970	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Minister. Well, here I am going back to that law-making period because we, too, were then warned at the club and individually that this would lead to what this report shows. Of course, the interests of politics were clearly visible at the time, and that the very name of the law that was being changed was, in fact, the essence of the change. Law on research, arrangement and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II NN No. 31/2011 and replaced the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the Post-war Period. As soon as that part of the communist crime lost everything and its essence based on some documents, it was not invented. And even at one kind of consensus, only the HNS and the SDSS were against the adoption of this law that formed a special office. That's the attitudes we've heard today. We also felt that this law was good and that it simply had the necessary people and resources to achieve it to achieve what it was founded for. Here's a colleague mentions history, she's repeated herself again. In 2000-2003, the Commission, which existed transferred to the ministry, the office was removed from the ministry and then we have a report. We also said then, and today we repeat he is opposed to European resolutions and the Croatian Parliament itself because they speak only of the victims of the communist regime means this resolution, and you are talking about World War II. Here are 60 locations in preparation or in research is World War II. And we've claimed and said again that it was settled by the Law on the Protection of Fighters of the People's Liberation War of the '90s and the Law on the Protection of Victims of Fascist Terror and Civil Victims of War. So that's what it was. So this law now I guess he's been implementing all three of a sudden, but it was in somebody's best interest. Then we said that for the same money you extended jurisdiction. You've now had 2 million and 800,000 kuna, 800 thousand not spent. So at a job like this, we've even had some savings at so many locations, and not a small one, almost a third of the money hasn't been spent, and we hear it's a great effort and a great success for those who think it's okay. And we can accept that, but at that time when something changes in this country, and we hope it will be very soon, we'll put this back to the way it was. Why? Because of the European resolution, i.e. The resolution on the European conscience says there cannot be reconciliation without truth and memory, it cannot. And because of this, it is clear that this law did not achieve what you were then proposing to us because the victims of World War II were solved and this was about all those killed after 9.5. without court and trial, these are victims of the communist regime. And I'm bothered by what I asked the minister that we here in the Parliament read the post-war period, so it's a post-war period, it's not the communist regime, but the monument says the victim of the communist regime. That's okay. Do we have anything to be ashamed of? Well, I guess we can speak openly in this House that this communist regime existed because I'm a witness to it. At that time, as a citizen, as a parliamentary representative, I invited you to follow Article 7 when you passed the law, but you obviously did not read the phonograms. And I said come to Goli Island and mark that space. There are no features, except for one small table in the port of Gol Island, which was set up by the Government in 2011 when totalitarian regimes began to be marked on 23.8. So no one's been on that island for a year and a few days to investigate what happened there. There's no word in this report on Badger. Why isn't that being investigated? Is there a special memo to the ministry? How is that not there? Well, there's someone there every year to come. Someone wants to sympathize with the victims. It's not in this report, but there are dozens of locations of World War II. That's what we're saying. You wanted to transfer it to a wider field with the same money and do nothing. You went on and took the office files and spent the rest of those three sites you mentioned and finished it, not to mention me. What about this naked island? It's been painted there for a while after World War II, you call it the postwar period, I call it the communist regime. People were brought there without trial, they had numbers, they had no names. They called them gangs when they were unloaded. They worked hard, spent years there and a large number of them and today there are more and more available documents, audio documents. There's a state archive, there's numbers, names and last names. There are only 17,000 people talking about that area. From now on known 413 killed on the island, on the Golo Island. And this government had no need, I say, and she wrote it in law, and I invited you to come down and mark it in cooperation with local self-government, with all the associations that are interested. Here is an Ante Earther Association, which is called "Ante Earther" Goli Island, which appears on the 23rd of every year in the area along with some people and honors the people who left their lives there. But the Ministry of Defense, who boasts that it has worked very successfully over the past year, has not come up with it in the same way or on that day of 23.8 so that it can come at least in protocol or on that day. Only those who are either children or grandchildren of those who have lost their lives and many who still hold a memorial to their loved ones come. Because on that island something terrible happened to me, it became a period of '49. Until '56. political prison. All who disagreed with some system that was intended to be established were raised on that island. Even then, I called on representatives of the Serb national minority because most of these people, Serbs mean they went through the island, them and Montenegrins, nearly 11 thousand, and they never get there because it's all politics. So there's no true desire for reconciliation and truth. And that should settle the law, there's no real one. So what if someone bows down in local self-government and maintains that protocol, so why do we care? Because politics is always being raised behind the one the resolution and declaration of this House spoke of and that you have annulled through this law and spread it nicely to II. World War I. Because I'm saying, there's no truth without true reconciliation. And that will happen when it starts as they did in Sinac there even though it passed there along, you remember a nice episode because there were a lot of objections and what you said to Bishop Bozovic about Grujic. People had observations the way they treated themselves in exhumation with the remains of those who were killed there. It all went through at the end of the court in general reconciliation. Obviously, there's been some truth. But then let's share that truth in all areas and see for ourselves you say thousands of localities of that communist regime. Or that goes for II now. World War I. Because in the end, we won't know anything about what happened until 9.5 and what happened after 9.5.1945. And that wasn't our goal. The goal was to solve what we were most interested in, the victims of the communist regime. And that's the period after 9.5. And then I read what they wrote to us in the Federation of anti-fascist fighters of the Republic of Croatia on your bill of law. And they have the same opinion, they say there were no victims' children and you're digging up children, right? That's right, so dead persons from a historical war stand and shouldn't be treated as victims, they're not victims to them. And that's exactly what you do. Do you understand what I'm saying? So the victims of the communist crime are political ideological structures. So what now? So we mixed everything up instead of leaving everything behind in time after 9.5. Then these guys wouldn't be able to talk about what you're talking about. But unfortunately, during this power, nothing surprises us anymore. But I'm saying, there's gonna be a new time, some new people, and everything's gonna go back to where it's supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82971	The replica stands for the respected Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my fellow fighter in particular in the part where you said that the legal regulations before the law was passed were good and that she basically regulated the whole issue that this law under quotes "wanted to deal with". And that's when we warned and said that this law wasn't really about the law, but that there was already legislation. But apparently, in the name of that law, it bothered the Victims' Law, right, the communist regime. And that seems to me the main reason why a new law was passed after all. In addition, the previous law could be amended and complemented if something in it did not fit so that all problems could be successfully solved. No, that wasn't what it wanted, but the law was derrogated, an independent body was shut down, an office that was supposed to be professionally involved in this business as an independent body on which both the government and the Parliament had control. So obviously the whole business is expanding to II. The world war wants to diversify so that in reality the truth will be hidden and relativated and the whole story will be diverged. That's obviously the real point and purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82973	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82974	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Ivić, when we started to change that law, the minister came, and here he mentioned it in one part today, so I'm not going to sign any suspicious warrants, it was all without control, that office no one controls, even though the government and the Parliament appointed a board of directors. Imagine that means an explanation. There were some angry cars, etc., we heard it today. It was a complete lie, a lie. Well, you have to work with something, so I guess now you're dealing with something, I guess there's some sort of material cost. We see two million kunas ourselves. That office had a million and 800, let's say, now it's even more but not all spent. It's being accomplished, so we're all diluted, it's going to be a while, nothing spectacular is going to happen, I'm just saying one example. It's not in the report at all, it's not being investigated. I guess there's no one there, and it's only said that on the first level of 450 victims, so send on. I say Goli Island, nothing, no one was there, she doesn't want to come at all. So what's the point of this law? Let's just run after the parts, obviously, so we can see by the locations, 60 locations from World War II, and that's what we've already said with the other laws, so let's deal with it. And then everybody else gets up and we heard the explanation today. Well, it's not that easy. But here's the minister says I've reconciled everyone, I guess like Vukovar, I've reconciled everyone. Nothing is reconciled, everything stands, there is no true reconciliation without true truth, and she obviously wants to hide, she still wants to hide, and we are against it and we have warned and we do not want to bear any responsibility for everything that seems, no matter what I say, they explain to us that this is all they do is perfect and great. I say it is not and will never be, until they find strength between themselves to look back on the post-World War II period.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82975	Defence Minister Predrag Matic's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here I can tell you in the end that there weren't a few of these remarks at the end, probably gave Mr. Boric a little bit of a break, so you spoke very nicely, and in the end you started to war with the facts again, but here I am going to do a few more sentences. So when Mr. Djurovic spoke about the office, in some ways we can say that the office was not actually abolished, he was re-integrated to the Ministry of Defence and all employees were taken over except those who politically ran the office. Unfortunately, if that's what they're sorry about, they're sorry. You said this very nicely and I support Mr. Boric in this sentence there is no true reconciliation without truth, and in order to achieve this believe the most difficult job that my smallness and the Ministry of Defense did is that we got at the same table and I can tell you that this is one of the greatest successes of the ministry, my littleness, that I got for the same table after 20 years, it didn't work out for anyone, all of the religious communities, so on. Red and black, so-called. left and right, and then eventually, if you want to sit at the same table, there were partisans and Ustashas sitting at the same table. And it was supposed to get a consensus, and it can't, I think Mr. Djurovic was talking about it, so the victims of the communist regime. While I'm a minister, while this government is, it won't stand, for example. The hate commies there slyly killed some people, enough to say the communist regime so they know it's a totalitarian regime. I will also not let him say that Ustasha villains killed innocent Serbs and others in camps. Just say the Ustasha regime so we know what we're talking about. No one's done it for the past 20 years, and I think it's one of the great things we've done. There's been another conversation here when there's a little bit of gossip about the truth, so the Son, the victim of the '46 Son. For years, after the war, the victims of the village of Iveziqi where it was, yes, Mr. Fighter, you're right, there were children, he can say that whoever he wants, so I'm always for the truth, and that's how I'll be as long as I'm in this business and as long as I live. So, yes, there were and the children's skeletons were in Ivesics. To whom it goes "in honor", let it go "in honor." You mentioned Goli Island, you mentioned Jazovka. The Goli Island will be his turn. The commission brings a work plan, the ministry respects the work of the commission. We have our own rhythm, a diagram of how we will work according to the means, according to the possibilities. Jazovka was registered last year and President of the Parliament Mr. Leko and full bus of foreign ambassadors and representatives of military attachés from our friendly countries, we were, we visited at the level of symbolism both Jazovka and Jadovno. And don't think I didn't have a problem because I went to Jazovka naively and then Jadovno and they said that Jadovno caused Jadovka. Believe me, it doesn't interest me, it's two sites, two places where the victims are. That's all I care about, and that's all I care about. That's it. Thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82977	I thank the ministers. We have one replica. Here you go, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82978	I can tell the ministers after this that you are then our messiah, you have made peace with everyone that no one has reconciled for 20 years, and when we get out of this room, I believe they're not at peace, 100%. Because we wouldn't be having public debates if everyone was at peace, right, I think it's very simple. You may have got them for five minutes, but what about after that? What I'm saying truly means, I expect you this year to come to Goli Island, to bow down to those victims of the communist regime. But you're not coming because everything is still politics above what we're talking about, and that's the point of sacrifice. He won't admit it because we're still fighting ideological battles here today. No end. The second world war was reactivated, we see for ourselves, even the anti-fascists themselves are angry with this law, then the CNS defends this law and report, and they were against that law, so they're all mixed up. There's no truth, and that's what I'm talking about. Without it, we can talk that we're all great and we're good, but in the end, it's all about something else, Mr. Minister. And here will be this year and that 23.8 will come and we'll all count ourselves in the end and see what it looks like. Thank you very much, and I'll see you next year if you're still here and we'll determine the material. And I'm asking you to mark this Goli island because I reported it as a citizen, and it's not in this table, and as a parliamentary representative, I signed it up, it says in article 7 of the law, back in my debate a year and a half ago. But you know why they won't come, because it's a symbol of one bad time, and everyone's saying it was great. Here's colleague Cain is thrilled with that time, I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82979	Minister Predrag Matic corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82980	Thank you very much, Mr. Fighter, for calling me a messiah, but I'll take that as a compliment, even though you didn't mean it that way. I want to tell you at the end of this debate that what we did is the first step. So, and this debate that was actually in a rather peaceful tone and I thank you for that. So we won't move on unless one of them accepts that the other had victims. When it is accepted then it is the first step towards finally going out or let's say the end of World War II and let's commit ourselves to what Mr. Ivić said, that my fundamental duty is the Homeland War, but here I have liked all the other wars of World War I, the second, I deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82981	I thank Minister Matic. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u82982	Report on the implementation of the law on research, arrangement and maintenance of military cemeterys, the cemetery of victims of World War II and the postwar period for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the postwar period for 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Please result in a vote. I find that most of the votes were 83 votes in favour, 21 against and 4 abstentions were reached by the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83030	We move to - Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2013 The report is submitted by the Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development under Article 16. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. President of the Management Board, Ms. Sveteana Plavša Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83031	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, and your distinguished MPs and MPs. In short, just a few information about what we managed to do last year. 2013 was a significant year for the National Foundation since we marked the tenth anniversary of the draft. So we were founded in 2003 with a special law. In 2013, it was also important for the European Commission to declare that year a European Year of Citizens and that is, in fact, at the heart of what the National Foundation is doing, which is to encourage active citizenship that is involved in civil society organisations. During those 10 years, we published 59 tenders and 48 calls for expressions of interest. Nearly 300 million kuna has been allocated for nearly 4,000 support granted to civil society organisations. And most importantly, through these support, almost 5,000 people are employed by men, which women who have actually worked on projects and programs that are supported through these support. And there are over 100,000 volunteers and volunteers involved. It is also important that in the past year we actually carried out activities related to the allocation of funds through European funds because we were declared an implementing body. We launched and awarded the awards to the best activists and activists in that European Year of Citizens, which was last year, successfully implemented the Europe Plus Programme, which gave us one-time support to ensure smooth liquidity and quality implementation of approved projects from EU funds. Also launched a programme of support for the development of philanthropy and foundation and supported the forum of foundations which are now 27. Introduce this new platform where civil society organisations can be financed in a different way, which is directly from the citizens and use their activities to raise funds for activities carried out by civil society organisations. We also supported social development projects in units of local and regional, regional self-government particularly in cities up to 30,000 inhabitants and continued partnership with regional networks that in fact provide and support the development of civil society organisations and four regional foundations that actually carry out decentralised competitions and enable funding at local level, and since last year a programme of the Centre for Social Development in the Republic of Croatia has been launched which play an important role, especially now after Croatia's entry into the EU. Good co-operation has also been achieved with two ministries – the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Ministry of Defence, given that we have launched financial support for Associations of Homeland War and Associations of Persons with Disabilities and Local Associations of Persons with Disabilities. And we believe that the research we have carried out on the impact of the National Foundation's support in these past 10 years on social and economic development in Croatia will be a guideline for better implementation of support for civil society organisations. Here's so short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83032	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The esteemed Jasen Mesic will speak on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83033	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, ma'am. Thank you for your introduction. It is common when we have reports like this in the Croatian Parliament, then say something about how important civil society is, why everything is important, how much we can find in civil society, I will skip that part, so I will say what we consider very good in this report. It's that shown very transparent funding under number one. If all institutions and foundations so transparently showed what they had funded, a more quality debate could be conducted. We think that a very good engagement of the Civil Society Foundation, the social development at local level, is what the lady mentioned in the middle of up to 30,000 inhabitants. I think it's very good and we think it's very good that one of the objectives of the foundation is to improve the employment of self-employment of the activity of that kind. It is also known that this trend in the most developed EU countries is now actually reaching up to 10% of employment in some countries, and we see it as good. It is also good for the foundation to launch a mechanism of researching results, i.e. monitoring results, or in some way valorising what the foundation has funded, and in some ways to weigh after some time the effects of what was wanted to be financed through the foundation. It's a good thing the "Together for Better" programme was also launched, which I've already said about the local community. What do we think should continue to work on, I must ask how much does this publication cost? ... No, all together, a 500 copy issue project? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ten thousand kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If so and if a publication has already been made in this way, I would also like to see both the tax criteria or at least the general definitions of those people who have decided to finance certain programmes. There's a possibility of that. I think it would be even more complete then. In addition, on page 77, 76, 69, 52, 24, 25 of this publication, current politicians appear to you. Now, is that good or bad for the development of civil society? If all politicians were to appear, not just ruling, then I would be in favor of showing themselves. If they show themselves only by ruling, I must personally admit that as a careful reader of this publication, it does not make me particularly happy if, for example, on page 76, you have the opportunity to think that this is a Mediterranean part of the programme, that, as a Croatian cooperation network on the euro of the Mediterranean, you have a picture of the Honorable President of Mr. Leka's Parliament and the text does not say anything about him or where he was and what he was doing. And we happen to know that he led a delegation of the Croatian Parliament there, which was not only Mr. Leko but they were colleagues from all parties. I think it'd be better if it was done like that. By the way, there's no mention of the name Ivan Leko around here, so I checked it out. Yes, it says that Croatia participated in Marseille but does not say that he participated [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83034	It's not very common in this way to conduct a debate in the Parliament. Let a fellow Mesic present his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83035	A team more if that's the case, then other colleagues should have been listed. That would contribute to objectivity. As far as funding continues, civil society programmes continue to have a problem of centralization and the City of Zagreb. I think the foundation itself should come up with, I can see that it's going in that sense with these goals towards the local community, and that's absolutely right, but I think it needs to be continued more intensively. Because very often in the financing of civil society associations, for example, let's call it so colloquially the cultural sector, in Zagreb very often in my opinion, certain overlaps occur. Especially here, I think of the sector of an independent cultural scene. Otherwise I don't think that an independent cultural scene is a good name, a better name is an extra-institutional cultural scene, which in itself is very diverse. There are very educated, mostly very educated people who know how to write programs and in some ways more often employ funds for various programs, and when you add up such cultural programs of similar profiles in Croatia, they do not amount to 10%. If you're already working at the workshops, go to the workshops and in that sense. I'm always in charge of funding the cultural sector. But what I wanted to add to the financing of the cultural sector, I wonder if it is planned to explore and monitor the results of the funding, and I am also interested in whether these individual civil society associations for the same programmes receive funds from some other sources? Let's say from a foundation called the "Cultura Nova Foundation"? E, then there should be further work on transparency and monitoring of the report because the funding of the same cultural programmes from two sources requires additional and transparent monitoring. Because when you look at it then you will see that some programs of independent cultural scene are financed more than the restoration of the Zagreb cathedral or the Sibenik cathedral, which in itself is looking for significant funds because it is such a monument. Which, of course, I don't think is very real, from my point of view. There is also a part of civil society that is funded by the foundation, which I am not sure, although certain research has been carried out here on this issue, so perhaps the lady in the last address will say something about it, which is related to non-profit media where the non-profit media seems to me in 2013 that there were six associations of publishers who funded just over 600 thousand kuna and then this entire segment, if I am not mistaken, moves into the budget of the Ministry of Culture and is funded from the budget of the Ministry of Culture. Now, if it's civil society, then it's logical that it's funded by the foundation and how it's possible that from 1.1.2014 it stopped de facto being a civil society and it went to the culture ministry sector that financed it in the same way as the State Archives in Osijek. So is this a civil society association or not? Can we now refer to the Ministry of Culture as the civil sector? If we can call it the civil sector, then what was he doing with you in 2013, in your funding? I think we all need to make that kind of thing clear together so that otherwise this is pretty specific, and I'd say quite extensively, and quite a pedantic research would be even more pedantic. And besides, I may have missed it, and maybe not, so we're just suggesting it as a suggestion. Prior to these reports, it might be good to do some of thematic sessions here in the Croatian Assembly of the individual committees, whose basic interest this is in order to clarify a few more things in a direct debate rather than to bring ourselves down to this debate in the plenary session, very often burdened with certain political events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83036	Thank you. In the name of the HNS Club, the respected Goran Beus Richembergh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83037	Dear Mr. Vice-President, respected gentlemen directors, trustees, colleagues and colleagues before us is the report of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which has been full-time for 10 years, this is 11, raising standards in its basic mission, as well as the mission shared by many other institutes and institutions in our society from ministries to counties, units of local self-government and many others, which on the one hand the distribution of public funds, and, on the other hand, the philanthropic, therefore finance different programmes and projects in the territory of civil society in Croatia. When I say it raises standards, it does it from day one. Since 2002, when the initiative was launched, in 2003 when a national foundation was established, and a special law was passed by the Croatian Parliament, so all these years a model was established that no one else in Croatia developed it, and according to examples of best practice in the world, I would say even above the standards that apply to the EU. When the National Foundation did this 6, 7 or 8 years ago, many did not appreciate it because by then they had become accustomed in a different way to obtain funds from public sources with little control or no control and with little or no responsibility for the execution of what they were all assigned to do. The Foundation introduced all new rules, new procedures, new procedures, and in this sense created a model from which they were also taught from abroad. It is no secret that for years the foundation has been in constant communication activities with a number of other actors, foundations primarily from the EU that developed here in Croatia have always rated the highest grades. Well then no wonder that this research has been done, I would say conveniently on the 10th anniversary of the draft foundation, research conducted by the Institute of Social Research has produced such positive results about the impact of the foundation itself on social and economic opportunities in society. I am sorry that last year the government made a mistake and instead of supporting the National Foundation's report, and in this way, her 10th birthday was followed by a report by the government on a revision of the very foundation in which there were many wrong conclusions and very trendy suggestions. Let's just think of the one about buying a car, when the National Foundation was respected for not buying an official car. It did not matter to anyone who was doing a revision that the actual costs and needs of using a car were far less than it would cost to get a service car. And then, I will remind the Croatian Parliament responded to such a negative opinion by protest. It seems to me 104 or 108 representatives in the Croatian Parliament have abstained from concluding the report. It didn't solidarity with the government's proposal. This year, of course, the government gave full support to the report because it evaluated the really relevant facts solved by the National Foundation's report. However, it should be said that the operation of the foundation in 2013 cannot be compared at all with the circumstances, i.e. actions, because 5 or 8 years ago the target sector in Croatia could count on a number of other sources of funding, and today it is said of a very reduced number. The total resources available in the civil sector are significantly lower. On the other hand, there is one general misunderstanding when it comes to the civil sector, when it comes to NGOs and what is mainly prejudiced by the general notion of roles, but also by individual bad examples, and it is mainly referred to as bad examples by organisations that have nothing to do with civil society in a narrow sense, and then also in reports, and we have recently witnessed that during the debate on one law, we have had one analyst who, in the same basket, has been placed in the same place by the Croatian Olympic Committee and sports clubs and the Croatian Autoclubs, and therefore the associations are founded under special law with special public powers, as well as sports organisations with all those other associations that actually make sense of civil society, not only in us but anywhere, and these are those organisations that are founded for the common good. In different activities, in different areas of action. The Civil Society Development Fund has always reported very transparently on how it has allocated and distributed the funds that it collects and which it gives on the basis of the conclusions of the special bodies made up of experts. The Civil Society Development Foundation, I would say, is the only organization that shares public money, which systematically takes care of how it is spent. Monitoring the spending of funds, evaluation of programmes, effects, tours, visits, examination of documentation, interviews, practice are foundations practically from its own draft. Of course, it didn't suit some, it didn't fit some who had gotten used to large donations before, to relatively large budgets, and when the cake was cut objectively, when the criteria were sharpened, some of them also rebelled, and that's normal, that's what to expect. But the foundation has kept to these criteria always and in this sense we can say, on behalf of the HNS club of liberal Democrats, I would like to underline that the foundation is always public funds, so the public money it has available and that distributes every year according to the highest standards and responsibilities towards public money. And that in all cases where the criteria are not respected, when contractual obligations are not respected, it has penalized those who have abused it and they have never been able to actually repeat the same mistake again,... in this system there are no, but there are many who, out of ignorance, have failed to meet their obligations, but it is a foundation that, through specific experts both advisors and associations, regional foundations helped to raise their practice, their standards, their procedures to a higher level, to respect, therefore all criteria, to understand them well and to follow them well. In this respect, the role of the foundation was not only an allocation of funds, but a lasting contribution to civil society education, improving practices in civil society organisations, building infrastructure, etc. institutional assistance and what is very important, regionalisation. The network that was established through regional foundations, but also through large organisations that received institutional support, thus building higher capacity and could also be relied on by a number of smaller local organisations. Therefore, this approach has a very positive long-term impact on the development of civil society. Of course, you can always talk about whether in assessing the priorities of new calls, new competitions, whether thematically always hit what is needed in the long term, but there are almost no topics from these 59 competitions that the foundation has called in 10 years that it was not relevant. In any case, it is good that the foundation opened up the possibility of candidates and projects dealing with international co-operation several years ago, especially since at the time Croatia entered the EU it started with a special project concerning, therefore, European values, active citizenship, EU-level co-operation. I would also like to stress that there is a special project in which different programmes can be established in other countries to strengthen their democratic capacities and standards, so that the post-war situation prevails in order to stabilise the situation after the regime's violent overthrows to create active citizens in these countries as well. And my only question in this sense is whether this space can be extended to countries that are applied to EU membership, which we care about because, as a country in the region that has a lot of applications, we have a certain ambition to be active in this process of assistance, so that we remember both Ukraine and Moldova and Georgia, and in particular Turkey, because it seems to me that in this sense we are closer, and we have a certain level of responsibility perhaps than to the countries of the Southern Mediterranean, although these countries have gone through very strong traumas of major social change, revolutionary events after which unfortunately there has not yet been a stabilisation of the situation and of general democratisationation, but unfortunately to some countries and to chaos and general uncertainty. On behalf of the Croatian Liberal Democrats, I would like to join the Croatian Government's assessment that it is a good report that needs to be accepted by the Croatian Parliament and I announce that we will support the National Foundation for Civil Society Development Report for 2013 with a congratulations that the first 10 years of the foundation have done such a big, important and responsible job. And of course the desire to work a few more decades and still better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83038	To this exhibition, we will now hear the replica of the respected Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83039	... Dear fellow, you said it was much harder now than 5,6,7,8 years ago, given the small amount of funds, if I understood correctly, which were then coming to the Republic of Croatia about this. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] At the same time, however, a new funding option has been opened for a series of these projects, and I think some changes can be made there. For example, for a series of these programmes that have been funded transparently, they have been financed from an area of independent or non-institutional cultural scenes, EU funds under the Creative Europe programme, where the areas of media and culture are united. However, these are exactly the kind of programmes that should be reported to these funds before, and only then to the Civil Society Foundation. Is the idea of the next EU budget period in 2013-2020 in those 7 years just by stimulating the type of activity that is assessed by the types of activities that contribute to economic growth. It's also about non-profit media for me. So in this sense, at all times, it brings new challenges and new chances, and I think that if the foundation is placed in that sense, it can in some way contribute to and direct, given that it has also opened the Europa Plus programme and what you have stated in the report that it can be reoriented in that sense. So in this sense, I see no problem in the fact that here in the EU, in the old Member States, it is estimated that we no longer need that kind of help but that we are open to funds that we can equally apply to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83040	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83041	Thank you, fellow Mesic, for reminding me that it is necessary to underline this fact that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has created a new space in which quality projects and programmes can be engaged and funds from one part of the European funds. But I would remind you that NGOs in the Republic of Croatia are pioneers of withdrawing funds from European sources. They were the first to formulate good, quality programmes, which were long studied and learned by procedures, which met very high-set criteria for the right of allocation from European funds. And in this respect, I believe that the capacities they have, the technology they have mastered but also the logistics support and the National Foundation itself, the regional foundations on the other hand, the reference large regional organisations on the third hand can make a significant contribution to raising the level of usability of the funds that non-profit organisations can obtain at all to the highest possible point. In this sense, I would like us to understand here that this is not the withdrawal of funds spent by NGOs for some imaginary projects that no one sees, but that it is also a form of social entrepreneurship where the perspectives of the cooperation of the NGO, the local community and even the private sector where the applicants and candidates for EU membership that have entered before us have actually shown models by which this symbiosis or at least common interest can be used greatly, great work on the general interest of the local community, above all on education and on introducing new practices and learning from better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83042	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Tomislav Zhagar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83043	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Presidents of the Management Board, colleagues and colleagues. So here's to start the SDP club accepts the 2013 report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. Every democratic society, as well as our society, has an interest in developing the civil sector. So, apart from the public in which we involve the state and the local self-government unit of the private sector, which is characterized by the market, there is, above all, a civil sector that simply needs to be helped, and through this foundation which, in its 10 years of introduction, has done much of this task and allows. Because without the development of the civil sector, there is actually no free society. Because it is very important that the civil sector can clearly act towards the public sector and especially in order to adopt as high-quality measures as possible by the executive and legislative authorities, in particular those taking into account the needs of individual groups within society. Free association, self-organization of citizens, and building social capital and integration are at the heart of every democratic society. The ultimate goal of the same is to enable different groups within society to express, promote and affirm their values and their views. When we talk about civil society, then we regularly mention concepts such as the non-profit sector, civil initiative and volunteering. All of this serves to improve the democratic institutions of society. So in the 10 years of the foundation's work here is the proposer in the introduction of these figures and brought in, the figures are really worth mentioning. What is important for 2013, what I have singled out as me seems very important, is primarily funding from European funds where the foundation has been involved, it has been accredited. This is then the launch of development initiatives at a time of recession and crisis. The National Foundation has introduced additional stability and sustainability of civil society organisations through nearly 40 million kunas invested in activities for the common good. So these are significant assets. It mentions that the total employment of 508 people is 376 women and 132 men, which is also very important. And a total of 4000 17 volunteers and volunteers were included. The Europe Plus pilot programme has been successfully implemented, thus granting a total of 5 million kunas of funds for 24 civil society organisations and 28 contracted projects from the European Union funds. A special programme was launched to support the development of philanthropy and foundation. Many activities and forms of support encourage investment in young people, which is particularly important, through awards for primary and secondary schools and targeted development of volunteering through support especially for young people. The 2012 National Foundation initiative is supported by the initiative of a larger number of stakeholders to establish the first ethical bank in the Republic of Croatia e-bank. That's what the media reported. I think I saw it. ... successful implementation of development cooperation in the field of the Centre for Social Development in the Republic of Croatia, which play an important role especially after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Work on research and analysis of public policies from different areas of social activities at national and EU level. We can say that, therefore, it is also here in the report that the 2013 Foundation affected the social change and development of civil society in our country through the systemivity and diversity of its forms of support from the financing of short-term civil initiatives that address problems in the community through projects that contribute to the development of social capital and democratisation of civil society development. So, the tasks that were planned. So, just in the end a few more of this data, facts related to just the financial status of the trust. Therefore, the decision of the Ministry of Administration on 16 November 2010 approved the Foundation to register the amendments to the Statute in the Foundation's minutes, the amendments to the Statute prescribed that the Foundation could, in addition to other things, make economic use of its underlying assets, assets that were given to use, make the revenues that would be used for the implementation of the programme and for the basic purpose of the operation of the Foundation. On 21 June 2012, the Foundation provided the Ministry of Administration with a Decision of the Management Board establishing the balance of the underlying assets of the trust in money 22 million 552 thousand 88 kuna and in real estate 22 million 447 thousand 911 kuna. On 27 May 2013, a decision by the Ministry of Administration on the increase of the asset was re-delivered. So the basic property in the money is 29 million 327 thousand 753 kuna and the property in the property 22 million 447 thousand 911 kuna. And these basic assets in money are meant to invest in the property of 4 million kuna. And on 26 July, a report was submitted to the Ministry of Administration on the state of the underlying property of the foundation and purchase contracts for real estate in Rijeka and Zagreb. So the report is complete and the SDP club proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83044	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide tomorrow. And that's what we're going to do today, so we're going to continue tomorrow at 9.30. We will discuss the 2013 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. Thank you all, goodbye. The session was interrupted at 7.49 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-03-0.u83045	Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2013. The debate on the annual report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2013. a year." Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 109 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
