ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81849	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We will discuss this morning - A report on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2013 by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities delivered the report on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the motionary want to further explain the report? Yeah. The esteemed Ombudsman for disabled persons is the esteemed Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81850	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs. I thank you for offering me the opportunity to explain the report on the work of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities for 2013. The Ombudsman for people with disabilities during 2013 had 2444 activities in 1914, which is more than 20% compared to previous years. As regards the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, there were 1255 complaints of that number. On his own initiative, the office had 479 procedures in which we recommended, warned, proposed amendments and additions to the regulations, did analysis and all else needed to improve the position of disabled people. In 40 regulations, we gave 91 opinions, of which about 40% were adopted in part or in full in 16 regulations. The most common complaints referred to the area of social protection, accessibility, employment and labour, health and education. Prosecutors were from all over Croatia, but most of all from Zagreb and Zagreb County. The reason lies not only because here is the largest share of people with disabilities and the largest number of associations, but in good information and availability of our office whose headquarters is in Zagreb. Through tours of counties and cities and field work for 6 years we have been trying to bring the Ombudsman closer to people with disabilities and in other parts of Croatia, but really to be present and available in the environments where people with disabilities are only possible through regional offices, and this has been our priority since the start of action. Since the office's capacities have not increased since 2010, i.e. 4 years full, which makes it difficult for the field to operate, personally as a lawyer with two deputies and five advisors, we carry the burden of full professional work and the work of the office. A month-long outbreak in 2013 of one counselor was a difficult factor for almost 9 months and additionally burdened other experts. The financial resources are not increased to the items in the budget of the office for the renewal of capacity, and for the purposes of official travel around 55,000 kunas have been spent. I must stress that the hospitality-hotelier facilities in Croatia are not suitable enough for people like me, so in most of the county, I use those accommodation facilities that are accessible to me and that are usually more expensive than others that require careful planning of tours and an extremely rational approach, which is also the information that we have achieved with this amount 33 tours of institutions in which they are staying, working, educated or located persons with disabilities, and counselling persons with disabilities and organising meetings with city leaders and administrations has been carried out in 11 cities: Sinj, Omis, Trogir, Solin, Ogulin, Ogulina, Požega, Pazina, Ludbreg, Osijek and Đakova. I would especially single out the organisation of a seven-day visit, a special UN rapporteur for people with disabilities who were in Croatia for the first time. I would also highlight 14 lectures at higher education institutions, students, future professors, journalists, kinesiologists, lawyers and all those who will work tomorrow in some way and influence the position of children and adults with disabilities. In 2013, it was marked by amendments and the adoption of a series of laws that are of primary importance for the lives of children and adults, of which a significant quality shift is expected to improve. At the end of 2013, a new Social Care Act was adopted. Although he has made minimal positive movements, we still have discriminatory provisions, the right to a personal disability and the right to the status of foster parents, or the status of carers. In 2013, we also note an increase in complaints concerning difficulties in achieving material rights and settlement of housing costs, which shows that there has been further poverty in families whose members of persons with disabilities are at this level at risk of existence. Compensation with the basis of disability whose purpose is to involve people in everyday life in fact becomes in practice the only source of income for entire families so that a general, difficult social picture has an indirect adverse effect on both these persons and these families. Only 22,000 people with the most severe disability and children with developmental disabilities are entitled to a personal disability of 1250 kuna which should cover the costs arising from disability. Namely, whether a person will receive a personal disability or not depends on its income. It encourages the growing number of these individuals to prove that they can, with appropriate support, carry out the jobs they have been educated for. Despite numerous warnings, however, rather than encouraging people with disabilities to be active, they are in some way punished by seizing or reducing that minimum amount if they are employed. Unfortunately, we cannot expect all those people who receive a personal disability from tomorrow to start doing and studying, so we cannot accept savings as an excuse for such solutions. Such savings are long-term expensive and lead to... a person with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is most important in this means that accepting the equality and ability of a person remains purely declarative. During the whole year during the adoption of the Social Care Act, we have been actively and in various ways tried to prove that personal disability must not be social compensation. Namely, although the 2011 Law emphasizes the adoption of an Inclusive Supplement Act which should address the issue of settlement of costs arising from disability, which was discussed in a series of debates in the Assembly. If you remember an allowance for people with visual impairment where this amount remains in Croatia among the lowest in Europe, the law has been postponed and despite recommendations to continue its production by experts and define deadlines. In the past 8 months, we have no idea that work has continued on making the text of the law, so today we have a personal disability which is a social benefit and which is abolished or reduced in cases where a person is employed or made an income. The establishment of a working relationship was also an obstacle to obtaining the right to a family pension, and so the legal provision also contributed to giving up children and persons with disabilities from each form of education and training. However, there have been changes to the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, and this time we welcome this initiative and the adoption of our proposals that enables today to hire family pensioners in a way that suspends payouts at the time of their working relationship and later re-launchs depending on the person and her further thoughts on the pension. The complaints of persons with disabilities following the first days of the application of the new Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities show some missing solutions, so it is doubtful whether the sublegal acts will eliminate these shortcomings because there are still issues present, such as those considered to be people with disabilities and to prove the status of disability itself. There is still a negligible number of procedures for the recognition of the right to professional rehabilitation, for example in all areas of the Croatian Pension Office in 2013 there are only 14 cases. Despite ensuring incentives for employers when they employ a person with disabilities through the former Professional Rehabilitation Fund, and today, the Institute is inadequately arranged a support issue such as assistance. For example, people with dystrophy or paraplegia who work in the private sector today, although they are provided with a job adapted and have the necessary competence and knowledge to perform, for example, physiological needs during work, need help from assistants, which the system currently does not recognise at all. I would like to point out that it is often about misunderstanding, but also about the lack of coherence of policies for people with disabilities in different resolutions, and we reiterate that people with disabilities and children with disabilities are part of all the resolutions, not just social policies. In the report, we highlighted the Law on Supplements on Children, which also contains discriminatory provisions and which we have been warning of over the past years. Namely, parents were rejected in their request for a child’s allowance for their children who had severe health damage after 27 years of age. Griefing that they were placed in an unequal position against those parents who had done so by 2002 and who, in accordance with the disputed Article 38. The law belongs to an allowance for children and after 27 years of life until the adoption of a special regulation on the rights of persons with disabilities. However, the regulation has not yet been passed, which means that for years only one group of children's extras has been favoured and those until 2002, so for a full 12 years. The report of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted at the end of 2008, presented to the Parliament and the Government, made them aware of the unsustainability of the transitional provision of Article 38 of the Law. The competent ministry, or government, did nothing to correct the illegality, although the last amendment to the child allowance law was in October 2012. We also expressed our concerns and concerns about the provisions of the bill on a single body of art. It is important to assess the necessary support for each individual at an individual level where its damage is only the starting point. Only to be called to the social model, not to the medical model. However, considering the possible challenges, we note that a unique methodology of art that we still do not know how the Croatian Government regulation will be difficult to correctly evaluate everyone's disability and adults and children with disabilities, because the basic problem of each legal provision is that a person who wishes to call for for example the right of advantage in employment, which must be respected whether the employer meets the quota or not has only an opinion and not a solution to that right. The person with disabilities in the job tender will have to give the employer an insight into the findings and opinions. Whether or not he will be interpreted by the employer and whether he will really represent valid evidence of disability is questionable. On the other hand, it is justified to question the impact of a discretionary assessment on persons with disabilities when the overall health and social history of one person will be stated in this finding and opinion. The findings and opinions will rarely include data that are not important for the employer to establish a working relationship with that person, let alone for the exercise of the right of advantage in employment. Furthermore, if the person finds and opinion is not satisfied, he will be able to object and will then be skilled by the Bureau, because the first findings and opinions issue the branch offices of the office. What kind of procedure is this? ... It's not administrative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This also raises further questions that the law does not answer. In addition to this person with disabilities, there will be no individual act from which it will be clear to everyone that they are persons with disabilities, that they have that status. So it's so possible that those like today for one system will be people with disabilities while at the same time for another it won't be. In most of the right to compensation from the basic disability in the social care system as a condition for obtaining income-introduction, property censorship is also introduced. The participation of users in the payment of the price of the service is also foreseen for the exercise of the right to services. For a child, up to 50% of the child's income. According to current legal provisions, a child with developmental difficulties who, for example, needs early intervention is required to participate in the price of the service up to gender, for example. Family pensions. So if he makes a child 2,000 kuna family pension for the service, he will have to make up to 1000 kuna out of his own income. This will result in parents choosing between naked existence and occupation-rehabilitation procedures, so people with disabilities will be excluded from the only activities in which they have been involved so far, leading to a dramatic deterioration of their psycho-physical condition. Due to the lack of adequate specialised rehabilitation treatments as well as professional staff in health care, social care, for example, sensory integration, logo therapy, professional treatment of rehabilitators, working therapist for children with developmental difficulties and the inability of parents to pay for services from their own resources, children will remain at home, which ultimately poses a danger to the emergence of a difficult developmental deviation of disability and the violation of fundamental rights, in this case the right to health. The social care system has not developed enough the network of early intervention service providers and relys on several institutions and associations dealing with the provision of early intervention services, primarily in Zagreb and the surrounding area, while in the rest of Croatia these services are almost gone. On the basis of our parents' complaints, we have instructed the competent ministries to establish a system of early support for the development of children with difficulties in the entire territory of Croatia as quickly as possible. For several years, we have been warning of a series of inadequate and illegal solutions in the area of protection of the rights of people with autism. It is particularly concerned that despite such a serious violation of the law over the past 25 years, there has been no significant shift towards establishing... state-level care, especially when we talk about people with autism above the 21st year of life. While the Croatian Institute of Public Health speaks of more than 1,000 people with autistic spectrum disorders, prevalination worldwide says there are between 8 and 12 thousand of them. For years, the system has recognized these persons under other damages due to the absence of uniform diagnostic procedures, so today we meet adults who have not been rehabilitated. Families whose members of autistic spectrum disorder are tired of waiting for systematic support. It is difficult to establish an entire system of concerns if we do not have statistics on the basis of which an analysis of the needs and assurance of fundamental rights should be carried out for those persons. The fundamental right of those persons, as well as of all persons with disabilities, is life in the community, and in order to achieve this, we must start with systematic early intervention, education and education in regular conditions and ensure different forms of support in the community. If we really want to give people life in the community and the necessary support for people to be involved, we still have a big task ahead and a set of preconditions. Although we have been warning for years about the need for the adoption of the Assistence Act, it is clear that the personal assistant service is provided and is further not sufficient as a project because it includes more than 500 persons, provided that they are members of the association and that they belong to an association that wants to be the bearer of the project. And what about those people who aren't members of the association? In all the proposals and recommendations addressed so far, we have advocated such a system of rights and services that are rational, while ensuring a higher level of quality for those persons. In this context, we have proposed when adopting the Social Care Act to expand the circle of people who can be carers, not only of children but also of persons with disabilities, respecting the primary best interests of those persons with regard to the right to provide care and care in the family. We have based our proposals on a number of cases where the best care for a disabled person can, for example, provide. A spouse or husband but a legal provision does not allow a spouse to acquire the status of a care provider as well as another family member when it comes to adults with disabilities except in cases where the parent status of a child-bearing parent is acquired. Well, that's what we've got, for example. One example in which a family with three underage children, a father had a stroke, is currently in a coma, a wife had to quit, have a minimum income almost to cover only directorial costs. He takes 75% of the salary, they have a loan on the apartment, they're about 40 years old. He doesn't have the right to a personal assistant, he was killed or had a stroke a year and a half ago. How can we help such families whom the system cannot help? If cases such as this are not satisfied with the legal criteria for the exercise of the right to care and if it cannot achieve the service of a personal assistant, if there is no service, the system must develop appropriate forms of support for the family because if it remains left behind as the only option for the accommodation of those persons in homes for older and powerless. And we opted for the prevention of institutionalization and deinstitutionalisation. Parents of older age care about what happens to their child after they're gone. Because despite the inheritance of real estate, the realisation of pensions will need support in their lives. These persons should be helped in their daily lives and welfare centres do not have adequate forms of support available. Although the return of persons with disabilities from some institutions in communities where they had previously lived has begun to worry that a parallel lack of development of a network of service providers will support independent life in their own family and service providers. Undeveloped housing and health care programmes and all other forms of support in independent life have been developed. And that's all over Croatia. In addition to this fact, the waiting lists for accommodation in almost all of the facilities we visited are also presented. As for the tour of the cities on that occasion we held meetings with local associations and then the administration of local self-government and detected key problems in certain environments. In addition to the most pronounced accessibility problem, there is a lack of individual services for children with disabilities. There's no early intervention within state institutions. A large number of cities literally rely on the services provided by associations. Some finance individual experts, e.g. logopedes, and in other cases the work of the association depends on competitions which are discussed at local or national level. It is necessary to urgently complete sublegal regulations on the basis of which the work of certain organisations that want and have the capacity to become service providers will be licensed. The provision of individual services through project financing is not appropriate, it is not safe because when it comes to children at the earliest age, safety and continuity are needed. Associations of people with disabilities are increasingly closing their doors, due to reduced funds for cold drive, as well as the implementation of projects and programmes. The state and units of local and regional self-government should set clear criteria for the distribution of money and direct it to those associations that have taken over the role of the state in providing the necessary support services without which there is no equality, which are carried out by mobile support professionals, personal assistance, assistance in teaching, transport, support in work, etc. The education system remains one of the five most common complaints. We believe that the introduction of a minimum credit threshold for the entry into the decision on elements, the criteria for enrolment in the first grade of high school for the school year 2014/2015. the result of the debilitation of the education system towards disabled students and the withdrawal from direct enrollment step backwards in the availability of the system of regular education to students with difficulties. We believe that the right of direct enrolment of these students is not a privilege but is based on the provisions of the Convention which impose on children with disabilities the obligation to provide access to free basic and secondary education on an equal basis in communities where they live with reasonable adaptation to individual needs and secure effective assistance within general education. Students with developmental difficulties precisely because of their developmental difficulties regardless of their success or even motivation often have a limited choice of profession. The Institute of Direct Registration represents a significant adjustment to individual needs and provides access to that education which will ensure future full inclusion in the community on an equal footing. In this context, we consider, with the rest of the key document, an evaluation and opinion of the service for professional orientation, to determine the continuation of the education of students, as it directs them towards education for those professions in which they will be successful according to their abilities and capabilities. The problem is also the lack of rules in schooling and types of support that should have been passed five years ago, so we still operate under the 91st-year rule. We believe that the education system must turn to providing forms of support but systematically and without being able to determine arbitraryly. In the field of health, there are still negative trends in the difficult availability of all health services. In 2013, it was especially marked by the satisfaction of persons, i.e. parents of children with disabilities, inaccessibility of orthopedic and other aids. Some of them continue to be deprived of persons who are not educated or working, as if those who, due to their damage to the welfare system, are as difficult as long-term unemployed, as well as those who are of middle and older age, do not need to help to be involved at all and let alone live. There has been a problem in Croatia for many years related to the rehabilitation of the spinal injured. In 2010 we held a thematic session together with the Croatian Association of Paraplegics and Tetraplegics on the topic of comprehensive rehabilitation. However, so far we are not familiar with the steps taken in the realization of the spinal center. Rehabilitation of spinal injuries is one of the most complex rehabilitation programs. The country's concern is very late, and the difficulties these people live with as well as the consequences are becoming more difficult. Like what? Today we still have those who die of decubitus in hospitals. There has been no development of new forms of health care or treatment related to persons with mental impairment, mental disorders. There is still no outpatient system of treatment, no lack of rehabilitation in the community. This leads to multiple hospitalizations, Stigmatization, loss of work ability and then continued to the frequent deprivement of business ability. As far as accessibility is concerned, there is still a low awareness. We constantly warn, speak, organise tables, stands and indicate that this is a prerequisite for an independent life of persons with disabilities regardless of the damage involved. If you pass, for example. On foot from Ban Jelačić Square to the British square in the City of Zagreb on the right side of Ilica, you will see that from the total number of all shops, only three shops are accessible for people with disabilities moving wheelchairs, who really do not have a threshold and who are equal to entering. It's the length of two tram stations that really show how we're not really aware and we don't actually recognize people with disabilities as citizens of this society. Because if we noticed, then we wouldn't be surprised that in winter or at some other time of year we don't actually have a person with a disability on the street. We're actually still invisible people. As regards access to information pursuant to Article 6(2), The Law on HRT, HRT is obliged to gradually adapt audiovisual services to persons with hearing and visual impairment. However, according to these users of these services, significant developments have not been made to improve the adjustment. Like what? When documentaries are shown on the side of production, some parts of the film are translated by synchronisation, e.g. the voice of the narrator, and the other parts translated by the title, e.g. the voice of the participants. This practice prevents the full monitoring of the documentary programme by persons with visual impairment as well as by persons with hearing impairments. Housing care is an increasingly common area of complaints, both because of the inability to pay directorial costs, low incomes, but also because of the inaccessible housing facilities. Very often you are looking for a way to get social housing or replace your own affordable ones. The problem is discriminatory views of residents, our neighbours, lack of funds in reserve, as well as city decisions in trying to adapt housing to the needs of people with disabilities. A significant number of complaints about the abuse of the use of accessibility and parking signs in designated places and ineffectiveness and punishment and prevention and the need to amend the Regulation in an accessibility sign shall be indicated. However, according to our findings, it is currently in change, but although we do have the knowledge that certain changes in the EU's compliance should be made by 01/07, but here, the procedure is ongoing. I wonder how often we'll hear that places marked for parking of people with disabilities are parked by people without disabilities and very often by those who use the sign of their loved ones, and in fact it's you who violate their rights. The past year has also been marked by a protest gathering of parents, children with disabilities, and those with disabilities themselves. They expressed dissatisfaction with government relations, from state to local, which do not provide enough material and other resources to question the rights of children and persons with disabilities. Protests continued in 2014. In conclusion, in this part, I would like to say that as external partners on the project of the Croatian Legal Centre for, under the name "Let's exercise our rights, let's fight discrimination", which was held in cooperation with associations from Istria, Vukovar-Srijem, Varazdin County, in a survey conducted on more than 1000 persons with disabilities, in the first place they put more unfavourable positions than people without disability, or provocation. Such a response is in favour of the views that the relationship between the environment and respect is more important than the problems of movement and the problems in the exercise of guaranteed rights. This shows that everyday dealing with people with disabilities like our neighbours, colleagues and fellow citizens is a source of subjectively greater suffering than difficulties that result more objectively in their disability. Those answers are defeating for us as a society. Why? Because we like to think of ourselves as a society that respects human rights and the rights of persons with disabilities because they show that the most vulnerable members of that society feel left out, as citizens of the second order, the burden of society, the subject of mockery, are neglected and rejected. In accordance with all of this, I call on all of you, those who have not read the full report to read it because I do not think the summary can describe enough what we are always talking about, about the situation and the state of people with disabilities and I thank you all, here is what you have listened to my opening part and I hope that you will also recommend those solutions that are listed in the report and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81851	Thank you. We have three replicas on this opening exhibit. First, the esteemed Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Attorney General, I thank you both for your report and for your opening statement, which is really abundant, but since the problem is really so broad and complex, there is always a need to clarify something. So, personally, and to the public, I believe that both persons with disabilities and their families listen to us, I'm interested in your final position on parenting status? In fact, the measure was truly remarkable, and it is still useful for a number of reasons. It allowed the child to remain in the family, so the need for an institution was excluded, on the one hand. On the other hand, the mother, or most often, made it possible for one working status to be resolved because they were mostly concerned about caring and caring for their child long ago and careers and careers. The new Social Care Act comes to narrow down this right from several grounds and due to several types of damages that are required also because of the mobility, i.e. the immobility of a child with developmental difficulties, and what is particularly worrying and with the basis of the stay of that child in some educational or rehabilitation or work-occupied institution, and even from the Ministry of Social Policy intervention to be, I don't know, the border of four hours, or six hours of stay in some educational or rehabilitation or work-occupational institution. So, I ask you nicely to perhaps explain whether these interventions and changes by the ministry have now satisfied the need of parents, or whether that status has now remained at least at the level of standards and quality as it was in the previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81853	Does the D.A. want to respond to this replica? Yeah. Dear Anka Slošnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81854	Thank you. So as far as parenting status is concerned, some parts have been improved, but we have, for example, given this part that you asked about the severity of the damage, in fact, already in 2012 handed over to the Constitutional Court for a constitutional assessment of this provision for a reason because we consider it discriminatory. Namely, it includes persons with physical damage and immobility, but when it comes to multiple types of damage, the severity of damage, then the problem. Also, the part about staying in the institution has done so, and in this way these persons are no longer deprived of this right, but what we are concerned about and what I mentioned in the opening part, and we have suggested a whole, in fact, complete... which would include the assistant person with disabilities in the family because, as we said, not only to ensure that the person in the house, or in his own home, would already provide prevention in institutionalisation and would not actually come to be more expensive to the state than it would be if we were looking at the side of the savings, but rather to stay in his own home. And also what's important about parenting status is to say, that he's actually a foster parent now because actually that status was intended for those people at the beginning who were with the most severe damage. For those of whom and similar situations, parents really had to take care of them for 24 hours and stay at home. However, that number of users increased significantly, and instead of then, I don't know, about 300, 400 today we have over 3,000. However, what has proved to be lacking is that at this point there is insufficient support for people with disabilities and children with disabilities in their families because if we have really decided to process home transformation, deinstitutionalisation that we need to do everything to keep people with such damages in their own homes, but that families get adequate support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81855	Second replica, Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. And this report of yours once again shows how good it has been for you to start a special attorney, or to be your attorney for persons with disabilities, because by comparing reports and other attorneys, we can see that your activities on the ground and your efforts are not lagging behind. With this report, you have once again shown what it means to be a fighter of life and you point to all persons with disabilities from children to adults how to be a fighter of life, and you help to reach the heart. But whose heart do they have to come to, the D.A. I wanted to ask you? Do you ever, on all of these recommendations you've given, do you have answers from the competent ministries or from the government that should accept your recommendations and try to resolve them because you clearly spoke about this skill and opinion and finding which is also inconclusive in all this, about administrative and inadmissible. You speak professionally and competently and show that you know what you're talking about and the problems you're pointing to I'm interested in, and on the one hand, I'm very happy because you're critical because you're not under political pressure, you're clearly talking about the problem. I wonder if you have feedback on whether your recommendation or your apparition is going to be here. I'm going to ask for art now, and something else I'm going to do in my own and somehow solve in the way that you suggested it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81857	Does the D.A. want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81858	As regards the Law on the Single Body of Arts, some of our proposals have been partially adopted, not fully adopted, and in particular in this section regarding findings and opinions, or solutions that are extremely important because people with disabilities cannot complain about the findings and opinions, but indeed the solution. We had a talk recently with representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system and also the Office for Professional Rehabilitation, Art and Employment of Persons with Disabilities where we are trying to find a way to recognize it as a major problem because we believe at this point that it is a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81859	Third replica, respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Attorney General Slonjšak. I will refer to the three things you had in your presentation, one was that numerous violations are the rights of persons with disabilities in the field of health care and health care, you said what they were but you mentioned the inability because of the distance from the city centers, which certainly represents a major problem, I know in the area of Split-Dalmatia County mainly of the Dalmatian mountain, i.e. the island. I love it about that, and I'm glad you talked about one increased and continuous surveillance. And the other thing I want to refer to is that you also said that you didn't have the number of persons with disabilities had to stop working because of the lack of financial resources of the unit of local administration and self-government. I think the units of local and government self-government are doing their best and in accordance with their financial capabilities to help the associations of people with disabilities. I know in the area of the town of Imotski we have an association that has made a great effort precisely in providing these services to defectologists, logos and psychologists and dislocations and thus saved a large part of the funds to HZMO and I think there can be a solution through, say, the dislocation of rural communities towards city centres that do not have those opportunities that city centres have. And thirdly, I don't agree with you that accepting people with disabilities is just a declaration and I don't think it's possible because of the lack, but that's why we have a state attorney who has to point out such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81861	Does the D.A. want to answer? Dear Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81862	Well, first of all, I'd like to start with this thing that you and I don't agree with. You have nothing to agree with me, then you disagree with the people with the disability who exposed it. I am their voice, and in that sense I convey their words. The point is that in many areas, we have associations that have taken over the role and countries that the state has allowed to deal with and be service providers and to take over their role. In this sense, they are citizens and are taking over and helping those citizens in the area of the local environment. In that sense, I think that units of local and regional self-government can be very helpful, it doesn't always mean in financial terms, but it means in those material and immaterial resources because today we have an application to international funds where the units of locals still have a situation that units of local self-government do not help all cities equally that allow these children today to have adequate early interventions and other treatments that are necessary for their health to not get worse. In that part we expect cities and counties to recognize their citizens and to recognize these quality associations that really do a great job and to provide them with a cold drive they can't survive in this way, it's simply impossible. Public works are currently divided in a way that associations must, so they must have 50% of their resources in order to have the meaning of people who could possibly help them. You must be aware that many of these organizations that run them are persons with disabilities, these are people who are either their pensions or are volunteers in some way means they eventually if they take, take commissions from these projects they carry out. But it's all nothing compared to the work they do. If we have associations today that have personal assistants across them by 30, 40 personal assistants it's one, it's a company, they have great responsibility. And we wonder who and in what way it supports and acknowledges them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81863	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Ana Komarić Devcic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81864	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the front of us, and I'm talking now, I'm going to tell you about the D.A.'s third report, so that's the 2013 report. And at the very beginning, I must stress that the SDP club will support this report. We believe that the Ombudsman and her associates have made a very good analysis and pointed to a number of problems and difficulties facing people with disabilities in their daily lives. So, again, we have a prominent restriction, inability, lack of understanding of the environment, employment problems, problems in educational institutions. So every year the report actually repeats the same problems. And regardless of what the club will accept this report we must therefore say that there has been no major shifts in 2013 but we would also like to stress that the larger shifts will probably be visible only in 2015 when the laws we passed in 2014 and that is the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment as well as the Law on therefore mental interference are applied. We think that some things will only be seen in the 2014 report. But since we're talking about 2013 there simply was no major shift in 2013. My presentation will cover several segments although every segment that you have stated is of course very much, requires great attention but simply cannot be told about everything at this short time. So I'm going to start with what you've listed as one of the biggest problems and that's accessibility. And every year we talk about it, the fact is that accessibility is one of the biggest problems of people with disabilities. Because if a person with disabilities can't access an institution, then they can't take advantage of any right or possibility. So in 2007, all institutions owned by states and units of local self-government were to be adjusted. We have a situation today that the Ombudsman cannot give us a concrete answer to which institutions are adjusted, which should still be adapted, because units of local self-government, regardless of their legal obligation to report to the Ombudsman what is planned for next year, which will be adapted to persons with disabilities, they simply do not do so and the Ombudsman cannot in principle send them anything but a written warning that they have not done so. When we talk about health care, you said you weren't happy with health care, I was talking about last year's 2012 report, I'll agree with you. Health care and health adjustment for people with disabilities has not been done. Of course, this depends on the people who run our health care system, or our hospitals. I have to say very frankly and openly that, apart from newly built or newly decorated departments in our hospitals, other suits are not adapted to disabled people. I said that in the last report, and I'll say here, you don't have bathroom departments for people with disabilities, you don't have the ability to shower. So I'm going to ask all of us here how it can feel to get into the health system, or into the hospital, and then it can't take a shower, and it has to stay there for two to three weeks. I think it's all to think about because it's not big investment and it's not ours, it's the people who work in that system that should certainly recognize it as one of their priorities. The availability in some, therefore, is not going to talk about large cities because large cities of course have a lot to offer for disabled people, but rural areas, islands, it should all be thought about because I believe that being a person with disabilities in one such environment is even harder than being a person with disabilities in a big city. Raising and education again can be referred to large cities, so in large cities you still have the possibility of educational education, entering the education system already from kindergartens but of course again in smaller environments, on islands, in rural areas it is therefore left to the care of parents. What's worrying, in your report, is that you don't have adequate data on high school education, so you don't have any, we don't have any data on how many children with developmental difficulties enter high school, which is actually extremely worrying because we know that high school education is actually the first profession. And if we want to involve people with disabilities in the world of work we must therefore enable them to complete and acquire some kind of calling. And with this I will immediately connect to the part where you talk about women with disabilities, where you have stated that 77% of women with disabilities do not have a completed or elementary school and then we can all ask ourselves together how we are going to introduce people with disabilities into the world of work when we 77% of women, and I guess the same information would be that we talk about the total percentage of people with disabilities, they don't even have a basic education. It's extremely difficult. So the priority of all of us together should be to enable people with disabilities to finish school, to finish high school education and thus to give them the first kind of profession with which they can go into the world of work because for them the real world of work is something that is extremely important because they gain independence and independence and feel useful and feel an integral part of society. Because if we make it impossible for a person with disabilities to participate in the work world, it actually feels useless, unnecessary, and then we have a whole series of negative, negative spirals that therefore burden both family and society and the person themselves. When we talk about the world of work, we've talked a lot about it in the last report, so we have laws, we have laws that have one positive discrimination, but actually they don't apply. It is simply that the Law on Advantage in Employment of Persons with Disabilities does not apply, although I continue to argue that it is not easy to enter into the world of work for a person with disabilities, especially not in private companies, because these private companies must also invest in making it possible for that person to have an adequate job, a special emergency space, etc. So the whole system still needs to be involved in order for people with disabilities to enter the world of work, especially when it comes to the private sector. A few words were made, the Ombudsman also pointed out that she was at the opportunity when she was now going around Croatia and that our catering facilities were not tailored to people with disabilities. I am in the last report, and I will repeat that the report came before the tourist season itself, I claim that Croatia is not a country that is ready and does not perceive people with disabilities as persons who are the same tourists, who also want to go to sea and who also want to bathe. That's what I'm saying for the reason we talked about the last report. Our hotels are not adapted for disabled persons, if under adjustment does not include ramps and lifts. Our rooms are not adapted to disabled people. People who are in a wheelchair can't move around hotels and so a whole series of content that should actually be adapted, which we who don't have disability don't think about because you're just walking around the hotel and not thinking, but those people can't use the contents of our hotels the same way we do. And I will repeat what I said and in the previous report, Croatia has, and correct me if any beaches, what I could find, have eight beaches for disabled people. In doing so, I mean the real beaches by all regulations, I don't mean the ones that only have a ramp or semi-adjusted beaches. So the Republic of Croatia has eight beaches for disabled people. No island has a beach for people with disabilities. And don't, forgive me for saying this right now, but our units of local self-government and regional concern give to open a dog's beach than the beach for people with disabilities, and I just needed to say it here. Deinstitutionalisation is a process that started in 2013 in a more active way and of course we will face problems and have problems. Anything we introduce new, of course, can't live perfectly first. I think deinstitutionalisation is a very good model and, of course, there are likely to be problems that will have to be solved in walking. I honestly believe that these problems will be solved and we at the club think that this is a very good model for people with disabilities, that it simply involves them in a normal life, and I hope that all the problems that are being seen in the course of this in some way in the trial area, according to the initial part of deinstitutionalisation, that we will therefore solve in walking and that these problems will become less and less and less every day. I just wanted to say two more sentences about the association. I personally think that the work of the organizations on the ground is extremely important and that units of local self-government, as you have said some have, and some have not yet recognized their work as extremely important, should take a large part of the role of institutions. And the only thing that matters, as you yourself have stated, is that units of local self-government and regional self-government recognize and support it financially. Of course, it's always about money. I think that people who work in such associations best and recognize needs because these associations are specific, so associations deal with exactly the problems and are related to people who have certain problems. And I think that we in the club think that the role of associations in our future, so also in the context of deinstitutionalisation and in the context of involving people in normal life, is extremely important, and I support you in appealing to local self-government units that you must also recognise and financially support where there are therefore no institutions that would do their part. In the end, I just want to look back on one of your sentences and actually appeal to all of us. I agree with you, and that's what I was saying at the last report that people with disabilities have to stop looking in the context of health care and social care, that they belong to all the restaurants and all the ministries, and that this part must be well organized and networked so that your needs and what you're up for are actually being implemented. And what rang me so loudly in your report when you were just saying the introduction. I'm appealing to all of us together, so let's make sure the D.A. doesn't say anything again, or as few times as possible, we're still invisible people. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81865	We have five replicas. First honorary Vice President of the House Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well esteemed colleagues Comparic-Devcic are two of your allegations prompted me to this replica. The first is that when you say that the availability of people with disabilities depends on the people who run our healthcare facilities. That is not quite true, because unfortunately, on one hand, regardless of what they are all set by a party criterion, the fact is that their premises are so narrowed down from month to month as health care institutions budgets are reduced and they rarely find themselves in a situation where they can barely raise their salaries for employees. So let's say when an X-ray tube breaks down if it has to decide between whether to put a new X-ray tube in order to provide patients with any service at all or to do reconstructions, for example, like you said sanitary knots, then, of course, the decision always falls to the first one. And that's understandable, and I have to say, it's not even surprising. However, what is important and what I agree with you is that the big problem is that we will actually involve people with disabilities in the world of work. It's a key problem, but unfortunately it's all the opposite. Namely, when we take care of it, and it is evident from the report that about 22,000 adults and children with the most difficult developmental difficulties have the right, they are entitled to a personal disability of only 1250 kunas, and then if they are hired and they are deprived and taken away, and often the whole family lives on that money, then, of course, saving is completely missed because they are actually forcing people with disabilities to stay passive, not to engage in the system of work, etc. And it seems to me that there is one way to influence and improve this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81867	The replica corresponds to the respected Ana Komaračić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81868	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Reiner, answer to one replica and another. The problems aren't since yesterday. The SDP has not been in power for 24 years. So, good will, but I really don't like to politicize this subject, and this topic is not for politicizing. But good will and good ideas in 24 years could bring a lot, and today maybe we wouldn't talk about it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81869	The second replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Devcic, I believe you have both wishes and will and in some way sensitivity to this subject. However, I reported to the replica only because you told the D.A. that this was the 2013 report and because of these problems, you believe that in 2015 these problems will be solved. My colleague Devcic, I mean, I don't think, but I'm sure these problems can't be solved by 2015 except for forgiveness and it's not politicisation unless this government just leaves before that. Because you see, we're third in Europe in poverty. In two-and-a-half years, the education system, the health care system, the economy doesn't have to say it at all, so you see. You say in one segment I'll make sure you adjust here and tourist season goes say beach. But for that, there is the Ministry of Tourism, and the Ministry of Tourism is one of the ministries run by this government. So if the lawyer points to some problems, then this government should, in accordance with its powers and its ministries, order certain things to be fixed and done. Surely the local administration has a certain role to play in all this, but the sensitivity of this government and you say 24 years. I just commended that five or six years ago this attorney general was founded, precisely because the HDZ government knew it was a problem and it was solving it. And I hope you're really from this bottom that we're all on. It will end in 2015. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81871	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81872	I'm really sorry we're politicizing this subject. Comrade Sumrak, I almost spoke the same thing on the 2011 report, almost identically speaking. So the situation was the same back then, so I don't know whose sensitivity you're appealing to right now. Things are moving, it's not easy. The economic situation is what it is but we passed two key laws in 2014 whose result cannot be seen in 2013 but in 2015. That's why I was talking about 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81873	New replica, respected colleague Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81874	Well, fellow Comparić Devčić, here's what I'm going to do about this fact whether we're politicizing or not and whether we're talking about the same thing this year as we talked about a few years ago when we talked about these reports. It's not if we're saying the same thing, and we don't have to say the same no matter who's in power, it's obvious that we're all trying to make progress. However, here is something already seen from this report, which is that there is no uniform inter-resor policy. I can guess what you're aiming at when you say that the shifts will be positive in 2014, some positive in 2015. But we have the results of the new laws, the laws that have been passed now during this government. The Law on Social Care, the Law on the Single Body of Art, which is announced by many others who are largely from this debate, and also from the introduction and documents of the Ombudsman, it is evident that they have violated the standards of persons with disabilities. And what's this about? It's not just about funding, it's about lack of understanding and will. Right now, a document is being prepared from the Ministry of Education that really says that there is no hearing and understanding for people with disabilities who restrict the enrolment of children in high school. So it's not a matter of recession or crisis, it's a sense of purpose for the needs of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81875	Before I give the right to reply to the replica I will now ask the public contractor HRT 4 to always hold an interpreter in the corner of the screen so that people with hearing damage can follow this debate because they are interested. It's much more important that they see it than they look at us. Thank you very much. Replication response, Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81876	Dear colleagues, I have nothing else to say to you but the fact that we passed some laws in 2014, some of us will only bring the same in 2014 and this result of the adoption of these laws must be seen in 2015. We just can't see them in 2013. And that's why the Attorney General's report on some things, on professional rehabilitation and on giving an opinion and it's simply in this report the way it is because we're doing it under the old law. That's what the lawyer herself said in her opening statement. And just because it wasn't good we went to changes that simply couldn't be seen in 2014 but simply in 2015 when the law began to apply. I mean, we don't have to agree, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81877	Replica, the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Comparić Devčić you also stressed the problem of accessibility and accessibility and I agree with you that in that part you should make maximum efforts at all levels, from units of local self-government, but I am a little stuck with the ear where you in particular highlighted local self-government units, rural areas. Okay, if you don't, talk me into it, God gave it to you. But it's about getting the impression that these local self-government units are doing nothing. And my colleague Babic said that each one in accordance with his abilities was transferred to local self-government units but from fiscal decentralisation to d. And I'm going to say that I don't have a beach in my midst, but I certainly care about people with disabilities and they also have a geronto housewife, etc. And if we're honest, then it's got to be hard to look up. You did not mention in any word that under the new Social Care Act they were reduced, rights were narrowed down based on care and care by another person. So now to limit some amounts, 1,000, 1500 to people with disabilities, I think it's inconclusive and misunderstanding of the situation. That's the way to look. And the other thing, as for health care and availability, etc., you know that I have repeatedly highlighted the problem of orthopaedic aids. And in that sense, people with disabilities have had their objections, so why don't you just let it go a little bit and do it that way? So we all need to be together at all levels and make sure that people are visible. Here's the point of the story to tell, everyone takes over their share of responsibility and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81879	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milinkovic, you misunderstood me. I really didn't say that you in rural areas don't work or work more or less on accessibility. No, I said generally all the environments. And as far as rural areas are concerned, I said that it is much more difficult for people with disabilities in rural areas where the availability of educational and educational institutions is smaller, the health system is smaller, etc., in that sense. I was actually on your side, what you've been fighting for all along is, it's much harder to be a person with disabilities and on islands and in all such environments in which the availability of some institutions is simply in itself less. As for the geronto housewives, the geronto housewives aren't exactly designed for people with disabilities. Geronto housewives were imagined in a completely different way. So don't mix the geronto housewives with, say, personal assistants who are extremely important to people with disabilities because they actually return and allow these people to live on their own, to get involved in social life, etc. So don't mix the geronto housewives. ... They're going, too, but they're not just meant for people with disabilities. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81881	The last replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I always sort of answer when it comes to local self-government because it's always about local self-government and it's not good. The fact is that in the back of 15, 20 years has been very much done in Croatian spaces in terms of accessibility and sensitisation of the public for people with disabilities. That's what you know and you agree with that, of course, and that's how it is. I'm sure there's a lot more to be done. But I have to say, in principle, it's not good just to say that local self-government hasn't done something, because the system isn't complicated, so there's no systematic problem-solving. Here's what you said yourself that the attorney general can only recommend, so we need to make some arrangements to make it a commitment. Why not make a strategy for people with disabilities for all units of local self-government. But then both the other side and the insurance funds to fund it. So we have to follow those two things, we can't just switch, local self-government does something or doesn't do something and say she's not good. No, just every thing costs, all of it has to be monitored, all of it has to be solved from the top down and it would be really good, it would be really good to do a real analysis like that and see what unit of local self-government has done in that part so far, what is the situation, and then if you need to see how it helps. But when you talk about personal assistants, here are the schools for disabled children, so we manage in a variety of ways in local self-government, we report to competitions, European competitions, ministries. There's no system solution, it takes a year and then it stops.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81883	Time. The replica corresponds to the respected Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81884	Dear colleague, it was very difficult for me today to list which units of local self-government have done much, less, more or more, because neither the attorney can answer us. That's exactly what I was talking about. The Advocate General cannot give us data on the adjustment of institutions in local self-government units, although it is an obligation for units of local self-government to provide information on what they will do in the current year and what they have done. But since there's no such information, because there's no obligation for someone to punish you, you can simply get a warning, then a warning doesn't seem to happen, and we don't have that information. We simply don't have that information, it's consistent with what you said to make a strategy. Well, you already have a legal obligation to do it in some way, so we don't. So the problem is, however, in local self-government units, in the context of not following certain regulations, that is, the fact that everything is always about money. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81885	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nada Murganic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81886	I would like to thank the esteemed Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorneys, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2013 as will support all efforts to monitor, protect and promote the rights of persons with disabilities by the Ombudsman and persons employed in her office. The report given to us by the Ombudsman is really exhaustive and detailed, talking about methodicality and working discipline, both the office and the lawyer. It is written on over 300 pages and can indeed give a beautiful and complete picture and about the work of the Ombudsman as well as on a problem that is really complex and very wide as regards a person with disabilities. In a country like ours where there has been a severe economic crisis for a long time, we can only imagine people with disabilities if they don't make their income pay or pension and they live on the verge of existence. That is how the lawyer most often spoke of difficulties in achieving material rights and housing costs for people with disabilities, where she pointed out that family disability benefits are, such families are also the only source of income. And 18% of people with disabilities live under conditions of poverty. If we know that more than 525 thousand people realize some form of support in various systems related to their disability, then we can imagine how much that figure is and how much participation in the entire population of our citizens. 22,000 people with disabilities are the ones with the most difficult form of disability, children with the most difficult problems in development have a personal disability of 1250 kuna. The Ombudsman also expressed her dissatisfaction with the treatment of personal disability in the social care system where the personal disability is considered to be social assistance and she enters into the calculation of income property censorship in the exercise of certain rights. In so doing, when adopting the Law on Social Care relating to a Personal Disabilities, relating to the exercise of the right to parent status of a care provider, the Ombudsman points out that the exercise of those rights does not comply with the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and does not comply with the social model of disability. We do not need to stress that the Social Care Act, which in some ways would be said up and covering the rights of persons with disabilities, has recently been passed, so we can be 100% sure that this law is the right of persons with disabilities and standards. And already, the attorney general said she also filed charges with the Constitutional Court about some of these rights. The more the adoption of an Inclusive Supplement Act, where the personal disability, i.e. that inclusive supplement, would not actually be treated as social assistance, i.e. as a cost to meet the basic needs of life, but to make it a compensation for the increased living needs that arise from disability, and to make it easier to equalise the status of persons with disabilities with those who do not have disability, if we know, layically said that life is really difficult for all of us, then we can imagine how difficult it is for a person with disabilities, and if they do not have adequate financial resources. What this law has also done very badly, and this is to introduce participation in the use of social services, so in early intervention, some work-occupation activities, with different models of psychosocial assistance for people with disabilities must participate in the financing of these services up to 50% of its receipts, namely, even more tragic ones, include income from children with developmental disabilities. And that's what I am in replicas, and I want to point out now that some of the moves made by law, especially the Social Care Act, many others are not in line with the social policy and strategies adopted by the government and which have declaredly adopted as documents and these ministries. However, when the law is passed, whether due to ill will, ignorance or very poor cooperation, not accepting the suggestion of the profession, i.e. the interested professional public and interested associations, and ultimately our very professional lawyer, then we get a law that narrows these rights and which is subject to such heavy accusations and lawsuits. Health care is also a particular problem, the health system narrows down rights to all citizens, and then we can imagine how this affects people with disabilities who must be strengthened and continued to maintain their remaining health skills in general are more often users of health services. With orthopedic aids, she spoke so much, and she was upset by the public, that's what the media was talking about. Indeed, whether recession measures are needed to break and save measures to the most needed and sensitive categories of users of these services, i.e. our population. As far as organized housing is concerned, we come to a paradox and absurdity. We encourage and highlight the inclusion, encourage and highlight the integration of people with disabilities in society, we want them to move away from long-term stay in social institutions, we want to institutionalise, and on the other hand we do not do enough or even in some segments anything to enable them to stay on their own in these organised dwellings, i.e. we do not organise either personnel or financial or social services that would provide them with independent housing. And what is very relevant these days, the Advocate General, and warns of the obligation to sign the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that each child should have a real chance to participate in education and education and in life-long learning with certain support. Namely, the document is announced, a unique list of health contraindications of secondary education programs for enrolment in the first grade of high school which, in fact, gives a list of these contraindications a restriction on their children who have no perfect vision, hearing, perfect bone and muscle tissue and is a restriction for enrolment of children with developmental difficulties in secondary school. It's the same thing we're saying that not certain ministries and certain resolutions are sufficiently sensitive to the needs of people with disabilities, nobody here can tell us that there's no money, this is really about lack of understanding and lack of will to achieve what we're all declaring, to achieve that we're all equal, that we should all have equal chances. The Ombudsman says that in this understanding, the most advanced has been the Ministry of Labour and the Croatian Institute of Pensions and what is good, and this will certainly be seen in the next reporting period that the rules have been passed on to people with disabilities in case of inclusion in the world of work will not deny the right to a family pension, and after the end of the working life, a person with disabilities can decide whether he wants a family or a personal pension, depending on which one he will be entitled. It would be good if such a relationship were also with a disabled person because the disabled children lose, if they get a scholarship to college or high school education, which is also very bad, dimming, restricts children's ability to school and is not in line with what we stress and in the documents we like to boast. The Ministry of Labour also prescribes employment quotas for people with disabilities, as they will reflect, we will see. In the middle of which there is a lack of jobs, while there are no adequate jobs for people with disabilities, we are all aware of this, we should not say that there are prejudices in employers and working environments that make employment more difficult. The Ombudsman also points out that the proposed new Labour Act foresees a lower level of protection for persons with disabilities than it has been before. If that's what we'll see in the final proposal what changed. What is significant and should be highlighted is the provision of Article 23. Convention relating to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to parenthood. It is often pointed out that in conflict, the right of a person with disabilities to parenting with the interests of his child who has difficulty in developing, but it is the task of society to provide help that every person can be a good parent and it is stressed that very often in terms of separating children from parents and putting them in an institution or giving up for adoption as.... Deprivement of business ability. If that's really how I trust the D.A., then it's really inadmissible. The D.A. particularly points out the very poor position of women with disabilities. Otherwise, their low qualification structure is 75% with primary school, and they are very difficult to work with and are economically dependent on parents or marriage mates and are thus exposed to various forms of violence. And as far as violence is concerned, it is usually present to people with disabilities where all social segments of normal and political public and media, work on public education, and that it really comes down to the least possible measure or what we all like to express, we need to have a zero tolerance rate for every form of violence, especially for those who are really weak. As far as associations are concerned, they are indeed in a difficult position, there are many, each has the right to join and express strength and strength in order to promote their rights and interests. They are mostly reduced to funding from units of local self-government, there is indeed a difference of which environments and not only depends on financial resources, but it should be stressed that all obligations are in some way liked to descend by the state towards the units of local self-government and regional, but that they are reluctant to lower or the financial resources of their decentralisation is lagging behind and there are very often gaps, very often there are transfers of some and obligations and responsibilities. The D.A. was really worth it. There are thousands of procedures, submissions. What needs to be pointed out, and the very association of people with disabilities particularly points out that it has an extremely updated well-organised website that has been visited over 2 million times, has 50 thousand visitors and this is really good for the sake of communication because the support and assistance of the Ombudsman is very important to these associations and persons with disabilities and its influence and power is visible, but also in the very way that we have been impressed by its report and the problem seen from this debate. She visited 10 counties, I really appreciate that the problem with this job is so much visitation, but indeed many associations point out that they want to and that it means a lot to them and to her coming into their midst. And finally, I'm going to say because this is a subject that can be talked about a lot, but I want to be in time for a person with disabilities to seek and need equality in their obligations and activities, not to be passive, they just don't want to be pityed. And what's in the document so I'm going to sort of quote it, their neighbors, colleagues and fellow citizens are a source of greater suffering than the difficulties arising from their disability. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81887	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First Vice President of the House, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Murganic, I think it is very important that what you said in the first part of your presentation, which is that today in Croatia, in which so many people are in a catastrophic state of finances, so unemployed that each fifth person practically 18% or almost 100 thousand people with disabilities live in poverty is something that each of us needs to be very concerned. Of course, because these are people who are much more sensitive than others, so when others are in such a difficult position then unfortunately, people with disabilities are in an even more incomparably difficult position, especially if they are affected by poverty. And then, of course, it's a problem that the state of people with disabilities, let's say, when they get a scholarship, it takes away that scholarship and the introduction of property censorship as a condition for the exercise of rights with the basis of disability, is something that is totally unacceptable, because then we all swear on the other hand that we should achieve greater involvement of these people in the work world, and we can't be surprised if we detimise education why 75% of these people have only a primary school. And in the end, I would just like to say something, we will, quite certainly, today unrelated to which party we belong, probably and support this report and all very commendably express how people with disabilities should be increased rights, how special care should be given to them and everything. I'll just remind you of when we're going to pass the next law, if we're really going to make that law stick to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81889	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Nada Murganić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81890	Dear colleague Reiner will certainly agree with your replica or participation in this debate. But I also want to point out what you said for reasons to remember when you passed some laws. However, these existing laws, which we now see as the Ombudsman, warns that they have committed injustices, have violated the already existing standards for people with disabilities, can be changed. Why not, it isn't, all the laws change can change that law too. There are even a number of regulations, i.e. some cracks that derivate the law as we know it is not good, but there are evidence that some failures and mistakes have also been observed in the ministries. Certainly, the difficult economic situation particularly affects people with disabilities the more their start was before this crisis was very bad because they were long gone from the world of work. And that personal disability is really small and it doesn't need to be reduced, which is even more tragic and banal in student scholarships. So if the student scholarship is like 600 kuna, then the difference is paid up to 1250 kunas to a child who is studying, or who is being educated and should be happy that all the difficult circumstances in which they are born, in which they live and grow, have the will and desire for education. So their scholarships, not just their personal disability, should be even bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81891	A second replica of the esteemed Djurjjjst Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Murganić, here I will take advantage of one occasion and read a quote of the letter, i.e. the address of the student Alma Sečić, who is a third-grade student of the Slava Raskaj vocational school. Visiting the Parliament were students with disabilities and students with developmental difficulties attending vocational schools. Indeed, I must say, my colleague Sobol and I and the President of the Parliament were with these children, the Ombudsman was and I was given permission to read and this is all teaching on your truly constructive debate. I quote: "My name is Alma Secic, I am a third-grader of the Slava Raskaj vocational school. I'm a Roma woman and I'm proud of my origins. It is an honor to be here today with you and to represent all students who cross their borders daily to get an education and get a chance to work. Like all of us, we are proud of our successes, we are saddened by injustices, we believe in tolerance, diversity and respect. We're all completely different but we want the same things, the future where we do our job, we look forward to the first pay, we want a family, we want our place under the sun. We do not seek mercy, we learn valuablely, and we are grateful for all the opportunities we are given. For our work, we get a symbolic fee and we feel like we've become masters of our craftsmen.". Afterwards, students of vocational schools who were bakers, pastries, who were future journalists, professors, talked about it, we also had a program. The most impressed me was one among the last was and he said I'm a man. Here may be the presumption of what you said to your colleague Murganić but also the importance of even the attorney general for persons with disabilities from this assumption should be set out and then see what it takes for this man to pass his obstacles much easier, in which way.../Stazić: Collar Sumrak is a long time gone. [[Intruder: Time.]] Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81893	Reply to the replica Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81894	So here's my colleague twilight while I was listening to your line and while I was listening to this letter, I was thinking about what I would do to you right now, and really after this letter, little Alma, I think every word of us here is superfluous.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81895	Third replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Murganic, you said that the increased life costs of disabled people, which is true, no one can deny it but they are increased, and are thus increased. The VAT has been increased, the heating is more expensive, the electricity, the water, so here's the mobile phone, and we know what mobile telephony means to people with disabilities. And now narrow down the right under the Social Care Act that you clearly spoke of makes it even more difficult. So we know that the parent of children with developmental difficulties warned them about these problems in a protest and a short time ago. And I think, on the other hand, saying it's good, it can't possibly be good. But I'm particularly glad that you emphasized the part where I insist and these are orthopedic aids. The necessity to amend this Regulation because simply this quantity of such is not sufficient in accordance with this Regulation. But the second should also be emphasized that these many times orthopaedic aids must be professionally applied. So remember when it was about that deinstitutionalization of Centre Stancic, you remember when there was a speech. When they spoke, there are various aids, sophisticated which, if unprofessionally administered, can be vitally endangered by people with disabilities. That's what needs to be given to importance and attention and not to talk about associations. I'm really sorry that they're not recognized in certain environments they're doing very well and we're helping in various ways and I think they really help and raise the quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81897	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81898	Well, now it's hard for me to answer your line because you've looked back almost all the segments of my debate, so it's obvious that we agree in one thing that life and life's difficulties are so much more difficult for people with disabilities that, in general, the social economic situation in the country is difficult. But what I wanted was self-aware and able and our country and all the financial and budgetary indicators that... point out that we can't expect miracles. But what was really sad and not supposed to happen, that the existing rights violated that the measures of recession started from the most sensitive ones, and it was particularly sad to listen, and it was especially sad to listen to one of the officials who explained when the current Regulation on orthopaedic aids was, that he was wearing shoes for two years. Well, thank God it's easy to wear them for 10 years if you have some pairs of those shoes, and that shoe with the one we buy at the store is incomparable and that a person with disabilities can't get it anywhere and that it costs a lot. And if it's the only means that allows her to move, then this kind of explanation is really banal. I would like to point out that, in addition to the wheelchairs and help others with the movement of persons with disabilities, they are also limited in the movement in public transport and they are mainly on their own transport, and now imagine what these costs are at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81899	The last replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81900	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said that associations are mostly focused on funding from local self-government and that's true in one part of it. But I have to say, it's mostly about financing that cold drive. While unfortunately associations had to grow into something completely different, in the absence of systematic solutions the association began to solve the problems of people with disabilities themselves, report to competitions, hire people, care with the geronto service for people with disabilities, for children with disabilities in schools as assistants in the course and all this takes a certain time, it has a period of time. The associations have jumped into a space that hasn't solved the system, it's a fact. What local self-government sets aside for associations is very little. It's a fact and she can't do it anymore. She can follow. But today, associations grow up to be minors not in small businesses that hire people with disabilities. I will say as an example of my association in the town of Križevci who currently employs about 28 people, many of whom are disabled or people who help disabled people. But what happens tomorrow when the EU fund project is completed, what will happen to these people, what will happen to these children? So associations point to specific problems that he has and that must be dealt with systematically. The system needs to function from the top down, because this way we'll only have cold drives or sporditive solutions in certain environments where a team might show up that can do a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81901	The reply to the replica, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81902	Comrade Hrg, I will fully agree with you with all these thoughts and recommendations that you make about associations, especially now we are talking about the Association of Persons with Disabilities and I believe that the Ombudsman may have a future for this and perhaps even now a better answer and some solution. And I agree with you that we have a lot of associations and that they are financed differently, they are different and humanely equipped, and that, among them, creates a number of times and some kind of trinkets and some kind of discord. There are some very successful financial strong projects that are also short of breath and then seem to have solved a problem. However, when those funds pass and the deadline for the use of funds from these associations, the problem remains the same. It needs to be evened out and standards should be clearly set on what needs to be financed and what is the obligation of the state and it is not good for associations to assume all the obligations that may actually be beyond their human and other abilities. And as far as local self-government units are concerned, when you look at them, they give a lot of money, when it's scattered on a lot of associations, then it's all over again not ready for each association enough, and the local and regional self-government units are really and justifiably complaining these days because the changes in all the regulations are going towards them, and the funds are not decentralisationd. So it's an area that needs to be really solved. I think the D.A.'s gonna work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81903	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, the respected Zlatko Tušak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81904	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Ombudsmans for people with disabilities, with their co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Labour Party fully supports this report by the Ombudsman for disabled persons, with the fact that we must say that not only do we support the report but we also support the activities that the Ombudsman made in 2013, and what is seen from the content of the report written in 310 pages and clearly about what was said, there were 1914 activities, of which 2444 were actions and what the Ombudsman said, that it was significantly more, somewhere around 20% more than in the previous years. What we especially need to be concerned about in this report, which is a question that concerns the exercise of material rights, as well as the cost of housing. If this is the result of growing poverty, and unfortunately there are no exceptions to families with disabled persons, or even to the level that some are seriously threatened by personal existence, then we have to ask ourselves, because according to data, we have 526000 people with disabilities who achieve some forms of support in various systems. So for example, I have to look back at one area, which is a particular area of the pension system because of those 526000 almost 60% of them are in the pension system or 306,000, and that's 25% of all pensioners and their average pension is 1965 kuna. With this, if we enter into the structure of paid disability pensions, then we come up with devastating data, so we have 16800 pensions with a height of up to 500 kuna, 17000 with a height of 500 to 1000 kuna, 32000 from 1000 to 1500 kuna and 70000 from 1500 to 2000 kuna, which is when totaling 133,000 people with a disability pension who are extremely poor, which is about 60% of all those who receive a disability pension. On the other hand, when we compare that number of disabled persons in retirement with some data when it comes to the EU, we must also ask ourselves why there is such a large number, because we have a much larger number than in the EU. Somewhere, according to data, double the average of disabled pensioners in the EU. We should also ask ourselves why this is so, which is the reason why it should be answered, and for example, the ratio of disability pensions in the overall working population is about 16%, while for example in some other countries like Italy and Belgium, this relationship is five times less than with us. They've got three percent of it. What the D.A. also said is that we have about 22,000 people who are the most disabled and children with the most difficulty in development who are entitled to a personal disability of 1250 kuna and who lose if they enter the process of work. We have to ask ourselves the question that this is really a legitimate warning from the lawyer who says it detimises these people to seek employment, but also in the part of schooling and to achieve their share through the vision of employment or education opportunities. I agree that saving people with disabilities is short-term, but it is essentially the most expensive because it prevents them from war, and what the lawyer rightly warns is in the report that it is not good. And what is most important is that the ministry remains deaf to the warning that persons with disabilities employed by this fee are being abolished which is not good for a very sensitive population, and in fact there is no significant savings in the budget because it is a significant small number of people with disabilities who should continue to receive this fee. It also concerns the fact that due to the lack of adequate specialised rehabilitation treatments for children with developmental difficulties as well as the inability of parents to pay from their own resources, these children remain at home without the necessary treatment and services. The social care system has not developed a network of early intervention service providers. He relies on several institutions and associations dealing with the provision of services for various interventions only in Zagreb while other children do not have the possibility and are not available to them, and the material situation does not allow them to do so. That is why over the past few years, but this year there have been several parent protests with children in difficulty that have shown their dissatisfaction with the government on insufficient support and assistance, as they remain alone in society. Such a problem we also have a devastating situation that, I heard that somewhere around 70% of marriages that have children with difficulties are destroyed because they themselves are simply unable to deal with the problems they face in society, which clearly gives a warning and a reminder that a much more serious society should deal with these problems. When it comes to the labour market, there is a general lack of new jobs. It is very important to pay greater attention to those who are at times of normal economic opportunities who have difficulty finding or retaining a job. It is therefore very important to prevent any discrimination and to promote equal opportunities and active measures to involve persons with disabilities in social life and in the world of work. From the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons, we can expect some shifts, but they will only happen next year. But it will also not give those important and significant results because without the recovery of the economy and the creation of new jobs for which this government has so far done nothing will not be much improved by the state or the question of the employment of disabled people. Although that part of the legal solution that speaks of quota employment will in some ways improve the employment potential of people with disabilities, but if it is not essentially much higher job creation then the problem will not be solved. The second is absolutely right as the Advocate General when he warns of the Law on the Single Body of Art, which we will probably adopt here in the Assembly today, because of his indeterminateness, the unknown when we talk about the methodology of art, which will only be passed later in sublegal acts but also the focus of skill that will be assessed in the degree of damage without determining who is actually a disabled person and who is not. Some indicators tell us that in the last two years there has been a reduction in the number of disability pensions but I am not sure that without real data whether this is the reason for fighting corruption because we know that they have both been giving and buying certain disability pensions or that it is a measure that makes it harder for real disabled people to exercise their right because of some other criteria that have nothing to do with the real state of the individual. For example, they may also indicate that about a disability pension solution, they have not been able to meet about 100 people because they died before that because of the trility of the system that has to worry us very much. I must ask myself whether individual legal rigid solutions in the field of work will allow to reduce the number of people with disabilities. I don't think that, because of a certain profit, the ragged workers and the sick will only be subject to major injuries and major disability. There is also a problem of what has been said and about the system of our health where clearly due to inadequate service and due to long-term waiting lists etc. The situation is getting worse and it improves that we also have more people with disabilities. And something I might have to talk about at the beginning, which is one example, which is the Syrac souvenir workshop where he works somewhere around 40 people with disabilities and who are in a pre-fashion settlement. The last salary was received for January, 4 months late payment of salaries and persons in a very difficult situation do not even have certain material receipts. Will their question be resolved on 10th of July when a pre-war settlement should be reached? In that part, they should also be compensated for the residual incentives they did not receive for one part of 2013 and 2014 because they were not able to account for or pay those contributions in respect of salaries. It might ease their situation. But I would essentially like to point out in particular to a particular problem that society needs to pay much more attention to the protection workshops so as not to find themselves in such a situation, to avoid situations for disabled persons working in such institutions to remain unaccompanied and to put their existence at risk but through individual different legal solutions to allow such institutions to be able to do better business. Because clearly they cannot deal with a rough market game when it comes to those institutions that do not have such a situation that part of the machinery park is adapted to the disabled and part of the machines to be able to perform certain operations in the process of work. This clearly gives us some kind of warning that, in the future and through this resolution, we must also adapt certain legal regulations in order for such workshops to be successfully worn on the labour market. Because it's the only guarantee of success for these people to stay in the process of work, and I think it's best for this society. Not that they're found and that they're only receiving part of the help. Because they too are happy if they can go to work and make a contribution to this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81905	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81906	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tušak, here I will first welcome our sign - language translators without whom they would not be able to track deaf persons or people who hear weaker would absolutely not be able to follow this Croatian Parliament. The law will be amended and those persons will be second-named, it will be a person of professional communications intermediaries. What I wanted to say, and what I asked the lady how many there are, there are 58 in all of Croatia and we have 12,000 people who are deaf or deaf. The desire is for everyone and everyone is talking about it and the government, unfortunately I'm sure they won't be able to solve it, is to involve people with disabilities here but also people with these difficulties in society. It's from politics, education, sports and everything else. How? When do just 58 translators or translators like this come to 12 thousand? Shouldn't they be in education means in schools available, available to translate all Croatian Parliament shows to HRT 4. And we know that HRT has a lot of money that's been thrown around, and I think it might be useful to use it. Equally deaf people are interested in everything else, culture and everything, but the inability to follow is because there is no sensitivity to provide translators. Well, in my turnip, I wanted to join your presentation simply to look and thank you for being with us today and to sort of warn us that we need more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81907	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81908	Thank you. Comrade twilight, I also join your praises of the people who translate. Clearly, what you said was that 12,000 people with hearing damage, it's very important that they have the opportunity to hear this debate, but also to hear everything that's important, what's going on in society. Clearly, I support your activity to make this much more pronounced and it is not a problem for televisions on a small screen to be shown when all the major shows that are very interested in these persons, is it still going to mean a lot to 12 thousand people who have hearing damage and I join your appeal and I believe that this part of the problem will also be dealt with positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81909	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81910	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Tušak, with regard to today's report clearly as well as certainly we should welcome this report which is extremely relevant to those 309 I mean pages as written, because indeed it is systematically numbered everything that could at this point be related to the problems of persons with disabilities. And I can certainly say that at this point I can say that today the person who is the Ombudsman for the protection of persons with disabilities fully understands all the problems of people with disabilities and who is really in a proper and systematic way following and offering quality solutions which, unfortunately, have not been adopted so far, I hope that in the near future they will be, but some solutions are also accepted that could be realized there. But let me point out something else that I think is important, which is the work of civil society associations that bring together disabled people and associations that help disabled people so that they can live as simple as possible daily and as easy as possible. I think we should all thank them together as a society, associations as societies, but also all individuals involved in this work and a great thank you to all of us to be somewhat less ashamed of what we are fogging and not to be made related to our fellow citizens with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81911	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81912	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81913	Excuse me. Did you answer the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81914	Well, dear colleague Tušak, I think it's very good that you pointed out what I said before, and that's that we have to keep an eye on, not only now we're talking nicely about people with disabilities here, but that's what we really do when there's a vote and a proposal for different laws. We are going to have to decide on such a law today, so I urge all of us to imagine whether this is what suits the best people with disabilities because it has also been warned by the Ombudsman. And although earlier in the discussion it was said that these are some of the problems that have been going through for years, it is not entirely true, some laws have been passed relatively recently, last year, which have had a major impact on that. For example, the Social Care Act of January 1st abolished the parent status of a parent whose child with disabilities or developmental difficulties stays for more than 4 hours a day in preschool or school. So we have a new rule on the rights to use orthopaedic aids, so we have a funny situation, let's say that orthopaedic equipment can be obtained every 8 months, and we know children thank God that feet grow fast, that they need much more new shoes, etc. etc. So we all keep in mind that when we make regulations, we really do what we do verbally here rarely advocate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81915	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81916	Thank you. Comrade Reiner, the truth is I agree with you, some regulations have been passed before, some have been passed later. There are also certain reductions in rights that are clear when it comes to sensitive persons, disabled persons, and clearly we need to take care of it, and we need to have a serious and responsible discussion here in the Assembly. But clearly the greatest responsibility is the moment when we raise our hands and pass certain laws. Worst of all, if certain laws are passed and reduced by rights and there is no particular reason for reducing such rights or, possibly, they do not require certain other financial shocks when it comes to budgeting and singleing out because this is a group of people we have to take care of. It's a group of people in which we all need to be unique, not in a way that we can talk here in the Parliament to get political points but to help them better fit into social life and solve their problems as easily as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81917	On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81918	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Commissioners for Persons with Disabilities with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Independent Representatives Club will support the adoption of this amendment and supplement law when it comes to disabled persons. But we will share this discussion in a good way. In the first part, I will say some general principles, and in the second part, Parliamentarian Damir Cain will complete it. According to the declaration, Croats are mostly religious people and Croat Catholics remain a syntagma that many are very faithful and it is not bad in themselves, so other peoples have identified themselves with their religion and have often disowned themselves to emphasize something that is fashionable and generally acceptable. When it comes to social cases and people with disabilities, then I think it would be because 83% of Christians or 90% of believers, they should live to the social, not just to talk about it, to preach, but to live to the social because it is the essence of those who believe. Man is not a believer by what he says and how he speaks but by what he lives and how he lives, responsibly, socially, and by the help of others. But we are at a great distance between Christendom’s norms, for example, and Islam and our concrete practices. So the social system is being resolved by the state, and it is not being asked to establish a social state, and so, I am glad that small funds are spending a commission on disabled persons in terms of needs, but the state is in charge of building a social state, and the man is personally in charge, if he is a believer in living his faith primarily. And here we are, I'm afraid, in part, too religious and not too spiritual, and yet there is a difference between spirituality and religion. Religion is loyalty to customs, rituals, traditions, and spirituality is a way of life. I have often been pleasantly surprised to meet spiritual people who confess agnosticism or even atheism, but I believe that spiritual people are responsible, honest, transparent, and solid with other people. This gap that we are doing knowingly or unconsciously will come to our heads because Croatia does not have enough resources to solve all the problems, and I fear that in the way we are organised, that everything is expected of the state, that it should be resolved and given, and that we do not appeal to personal conscience and convictions, so that we have cases where people are forgotten, not from neighbors, but from their neighbors, they want to get rid of them as soon as possible, they will all be ritualized by church, but they do not want more contacts with them, unless they are... interested in the legacy, in real estate, then while they are alive and while they are breathing around them, and later they bury them and share the property in their way that suits them. So, we need to work on the awareness of humanism, the relationship of man to man becoming a rule of life especially for those of us who believe because Jesus says, in the Gospels..., he first began to work, and then learn, and not vice versa. We can learn anything or anything, but man is what he does, and he told his disciples, and I set an example for you to live like this, and you do it, and you speak, not just speak. I think without that awareness of the people we should be working on, and until we get to that change, we here in the assembly won't be able to solve a bunch of problems that happen in the social sphere. There, that's it, and now Mr. Cain will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81919	Dear gentlemen, yes, we just heard from the D.A.'s Attorney General that in 2013 it was processed in her office 2444 cases. And I really don't think that there are any significant means to do that. Here in the report on page 35, if I'm not mistaken, mentions the amount of 2.9 million kuna, it means something below 3 million kuna. Some counties, for example, use twice as many newspapers for the media only, more specifically for advertising itself. But let's let it go now. Very short. I reported among other things to apostrophe the work of the Centre for Down Syndrome in Pula, to mention the principal, to mention teachers and mothers who, in a selfless way, surrender to their children. When I keep in mind that more is spent on polishing characters and works in some counties, cities than that center, then my heart literally hurts. I've heard one sentence from Mrs. Comparic Devcic, and I think she's right, that often in our society more care is taken for animal protection than for disabled people. It's harshly said, but I don't think she was far from the truth. This report is a most useful report to remind people who need our care most. On page 7 of this report, it is said that "on the day of 13 January 2014 according to data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health there were 525,782 people with disabilities who have some form of support in various systems. Of these, only 22,000 people with the most severe disability and children with the most difficult developmental difficulties are entitled to a personal disability of 1,250 kuna." I am pleased to note, among other things, that in Croatian society I quote "there is rarely any intention of discriminating persons with disabilities". People with disabilities are described by the Ombudsman as talking about a piety where unfortunately everything remains. And that's exactly what needs to be changed in some way. But now the question is, how do you help people with disabilities? I said just before 527 grand we have a disabled man, 22,000 people exercising some right to a disability. It's not that there's no will, it's not that there's no intention, but I agree there's no money, or maybe there's money, but then that money's misaligned when it comes to our upgrade, and it needs to be redefined first. I am pleased that one study came out among other things, it seems to me that the Croatian Association of Employers, which says is not allocated to the Republic of Croatia too much money for pensions, there is not too much money for the social benefit, there is not too much money for health care but too much money is allocated for an upgrade that today works 70, 80 thousand more than in 1990, which normally requires around 10 billion kuna with material costs at the annual level. For example. The study says local self-government units are spending as a health care system that employs 77,000 people. For the salaries of the state is set aside in its budget of 36 billion kuna, the state reduced pay out to the public sector for approximately billion kuna. In the first three months of 2014, this reduction continues, it is worth 100 million kuna while local self-government has increased salary expenditures for cca 50 million kuna. So everything needs to be redefineed, I agree with both the Parliament and the Government and the Ministry and local self-government and the system of health and the system should in some way decentralise or decentralise the state. However, it clearly takes time but needs more determination. Most delicately, I think and this is particularly apostropheic in this report is dealing with persons with mental disorders and the possibility of their accommodation in psychiatric institutions beyond their permission. Here, among other things, the report says that "The Committee for the Right of Persons with Disabilities in a number of its conclusions, observations expressed concern over the fact that the law of the countries allows a person against his will to be placed in a psychiatric institution if he has psychosocial damage and is considered dangerous to himself or others. The Committee therefore calls on Member States to take all necessary measures to ensure that no one is detained against their will in any institution for persons with psychosocial difficulties." Of course, there's a lot of talk about it. For me, that may be the central part of this report. Normally, someone's going to ask themselves what if there's an incident after that that person would be involved in, but it's extremely sensitive and socially and politically and legally and we don't know what to call it, the question. It is clear that in this country when we talk about people with disabilities, and at this limited time just to mention that there are clearly many things to solve, from architectural barriers to housing in homes of health, those orthopedic aids to housing in homes of especially old people. How do you hire people or disabled people? This is also said on page 25 "According to data from the Croatian Employment Institute in 2013 6,789 unemployed persons with disabilities were registered in 2012 while 6,607 were in 2012. In 2013, 1,744 people with disabilities were employed in the professions of assistant cooks or assistant cooks, cleaners, administrative officials, maintenance workers" etc. How do I get to work in this country when he's almost gone for no one? How, and today I hear that another initiative is going to commit an entrepreneur who has 20 and more employees to be employed under the allegations of disabled people. I don't know, I think it should be the business of the state first. I've been told by an entrepreneur, he says in these circumstances when I'm also a heart patient, in some ways a disabled person, I'm going to hire myself because I just don't have a way of simply doing things differently and not hurting the law. If someone hires such a person, God forbid, they should have some state support, some convenience because what I would say by imposing by the state cannot and will not be solved. In fact, it could turn into a new blow to the economy. Help to, if a tax is to be introduced, but this is primarily the concern of local self-government or the state of executive authority in one word. [[- Intruder: Comrade Cain, finish.]] All in all, I think that we will, not to think, but surely by absolutely consensus will be supported by this report of work for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81920	Thank you very much. Jadranka Kosor, a replica to the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81921	Thank you, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic can't hear me because there's a lot of noise because my colleague's coming in. About Mr Grubisic's debate, since he mentioned taking care of people with disabilities within the social community. So I want to say that care or better put into practice constitutional and legal obligations towards people with disabilities is absolutely not and can't be social. But part of the social state and the life of the social state absolutely do. And something that I agree with you said that we're not too spiritual and that it's a way of life, I totally agree. I especially think that here, we should think about what you said and all of us who do politics. Because it's like you said way of life. So respect and respect for others, not doing evil to others but equally honest and responsible work. So in that sense, I absolutely support your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81922	Reply to replica Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81923	I don't even know exactly how much I've distinguished these two areas, but my purpose was to point out and those who are believers, Christians prove their loyalty and their faith by working and doing good to each other. And the state needs to promote the social state, social laws, and that's its area. And each man himself would have to, if he were a believer, belong to the Christian community, he would have to live his Christianity primarily. And that is the spirituality, the life, the values of the New Testament. So thank you for the supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81924	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81925	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think this is going to be a very difficult task that I now have to do and speak for the club in the atmosphere when no one else listens. But I'll try and be loud enough to, of course, not too long and below what I've been given as a time for speaking on behalf of the club. Of course, the atmosphere as it was at the beginning of Ms. Attorney General's presentation for people with disabilities where a part of his colleague and colleague listened to us, part of which discussed things neatly and sharply, which were obviously more important than the Attorney General's report. Congratulations to the D.A. and her associates on the job. The report, of course, is well-conceived, well, comprehensive but it seems to me that those who listened carefully to Mrs. Slonjak have noticed something that is different from the report so far, in previous years, and that is a certain bitterness in its presentation. And that's something to leave behind, we should be given to think, we should be pictured because I fully sign everything Mrs. Slonjak said. So, the debate on the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities is not and can't be a debate on humanitarian issues, on welfare, on compassion, on goodness, on nobility, it's ladies and gentlemen a debate that must be a couple of excellence, a political debate. About what? On the implementation of the Constitution and on the implementation of the law, above all on the implementation of the law, on the prevention of discrimination. So this is a debate on fundamental human rights, respect for the law but also the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations. And it's not a debate and it can't be a debate about what we want, what we want and what we feel, but a debate like any other discussion about what is our obligation, us representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Not a debate that will be closed for minutes, and everyone will be dealing with some other issues that they will consider more important and valuable in political space. Here you go, while I'm talking and trying to earn my salary as a councilwoman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81926	My colleagues and colleagues, colleagues Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81927	Because I work here, because I'm busy here, some have, some don't, some come, some don't come. It's hard to outsmart with all those who speak at the moment. Of course, it's not the first time and it's not just on one side, it's the usual thing on the other side, so there's nothing really going on here. What I would like to point out from the debate, or from the presentation of Mrs. Attorney General, who I think has in a special way highlighted the Law on Personal Assistant. So a personal assistant is a particularly valuable and especially important institution that we have introduced years ago now and it is time to install this institute into a law that will consistently pave the way towards what this institution should mean for every person with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. So, of course, the budget of the Republic of Croatia should be monitored, however, as well as the true and real political will of us in the Croatian Parliament. The key in this report is, in my opinion, what the D.A. says, that people with disabilities don't want sympathy, they want equality. The Institute of Personal Assistant means not only that, but the right to life as everyone else has, because it is the right to independence, to self-organize and to determine their own lives. This is one of the best institutes, and with all the recommendations written and pointed out by the D.A. as a course to be taken at the end of the debate, i.e. in carrying out the conclusions, I suggest that the creation of the Law on Personal Assistant be one of our first-class tasks. And if there is a need, of course we can write it in the Croatian Parliament. In any event, the utmost attention should be paid to the facts of which the Ombudsman warns, namely regarding the personal disability and the confiscation and that minimum amount to those persons with disabilities who are employed, or who are being educated. This shows, in particular, a lack of understanding of what is meant by equality and compliance with the obligations of the Constitution and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. What is particularly devastating in the report, not because of the content of the report but because of the data is related to women with disabilities. So 77% of women with disabilities don't graduate from primary school. This is the problem and it is the task of whom the State and the Advocate General rightly points out, as it points to violence against persons with disabilities, violence against women with disabilities, and we will, of course, forget it again after this debate, and we will not return to the next report by the Ombudsman and the Office for Persons with Disabilities. Certainly, I plead to equal standards for all those who work in ministries offices and all those who work in the Ombudsman's office for persons with disabilities, especially for the lawyer who initially told those who listened that the increased expenses for her travels are absolutely understandable because most hotels and most of the institutions she wants to stay in are not adapted to people with the most difficult disability, such as our attorney, and then must use naturally more expensive facilities. And for these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but we, too, who are going to make the budget for next year, must have understanding and must really show that we want to meet the obligations of the Convention, the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia. What really affected me most in this report is the finding from the research where it is clear that most people with disabilities who have been studied feel that there is no point in reporting discrimination. Why doesn't it make sense? Because nothing special is going to happen because the state and state institutions will not react. I'm going to end up finding out what it's like, ladies and gentlemen, in politics. Today a few of us will speak again, there will be lots of nice words, we will be full of understanding, we will be supportive, we will offer a friendly hand, and then again in political space as it has happened many times, when we want to offend each other then we will hear qualifications again when one politician talks about another or others and says they are autistic, they are deaf, they are blind. When he wants to degrade himself in political space, then he is told that he is deaf, blind, autistic because he wants to be humiliated, and few who think that this is how we disqualify people with disabilities. Madam Attorney, we support your report and, of course, we will fully accept it, by saying that you rightly realize that sometimes you seem invisible. Because not only when you look at the shops in Ilica, but of course when you look at Dolac and when you look at the access to the milky part, the Dolca section is the largest market, and when you compare it with the fountains, then you have a clear answer to the question of what is the priority. But you continue to try to speak and to do as you have done so far, and I congratulate you on this work. And thank you very much for your esteemed colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81928	Now first we will continue the debate Report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2013. It is next to the Club of HNS Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Igor Coleman. Comrade Igor Coleman, go ahead. Please colleagues and colleagues who won't attend the debate to let us go so we can work but quietly. Wait for your colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81929	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed attorneys with associates. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the work you have done and put a symbolic wind in your back and for the further and even more successful performance of this important and unfortunately difficult job. HNS will, and I will say right away, that there is no confusion in supporting this report, with us supporting this report in the sincere hope that both the recommendations and the suggestions mentioned therein and that will be mentioned in future reports will indeed get the chance to live and live both in laws and regulations as well as in everyday life. One such step is mentioned in this report in 2013 in the Pension Insurance Act, where persons with disabilities are not also punished by the loss of family pension rights. However, one of the things that requires the re-thinking and redesign to express myself so is surely the right to compensation from the basis of disability. Because the first question we can ask ourselves is what is the objective of compensation. In our opinion, the objective of the fee is to support the achievement of equal opportunities, equal initial positions in society. And that's why it's not good at all, and we agree with the D.A. that it all depends on the property or income censorship that puts people like this out of the necessary activities instead of including them. This is particularly problematic in children who stay at home instead of engaging in occupation-rehabilitation procedures and activities of all possible species. Inaccessibility or heavy availability of orthopedic aids is also a problem that needs to be addressed as quickly as possible. In its report, the Ombudsman notes well that a society cannot be considered a society of human and civil rights at all if the most vulnerable members of that society feel unsettled, neglected and rejected. For each commendation is the exceptional activity of the Advocate's Office in the context of the adoption of laws and regulations, a total of 91 opinions on 40 different regulations. What remains here as a task is that in as many cases we respect and incorporate these proposals and suggestions into the laws that we make. When we talk about discrimination, it is important to stress that what should be the goal is the equality of persons with disabilities, equal chances, equal initial chances, and not passiveisation and exclusion from society. Although the Ombudsman herself in the report finds that there is rarely any intention of discrimination about it some colleagues before me have already spoken to a person with disabilities, but it seems to us that it is precisely one patronizing relationship that is formally full of pythetics but actually going on a passive and excluding the biggest problem at the level of the general population is something that needs to be changed systematically. Education is also important because a good part of discriminatory procedures stems from the ignorance of the regulations and obligations arising from these regulations. One of the worst data in this report, and this has already been mentioned by some of my predecessors, is the educational structure of women with disabilities who, together with occupations that are not in line with needs, lack of experience, long-term unemployment, form a vicious cycle of exclusion from the community, and thus completely destroy the principle of equal opportunities. The big problem is also accessibility and is often claimed to be high costs, it is actually an embarrassing apology. It's a really embarrassing excuse that it's a big expense. Because if you physically can't get to the office anywhere, to the counter, if you need services and services that you need as a citizen every day physically unavailable, then there's no talking about equal opportunities in the society we live in. And it's discrimination and it's the most serious form of discrimination and it makes it impossible for it to be fundamental and that is independence and involvement in the community. In this respect, there is an additional problem that should also be addressed to public transport within both cities and across the country. In the field of social protection, the HNS Club wishes to highlight a recommendation on the definition of the height of the person with disabilities based on the weight of disability regardless of property or income. This is a principle that seems reasonable to us, bearing in mind the achievement of equal opportunities in society. Because, realistically, the difficulties resulting from disability neither disappears nor are they less due to property or income. The difficulties caused by disability are not a social category but a reality that violates equal exercise of rights and opportunities in society. And that's why society has its mechanisms to at least try to compensate if that's even the appropriate word in this context. The problem is, in particular, that the wrong regulation in this area leads to people being discouraged in situations where they want to or could be educated or hired instead of being involved, being further excluded. There are two more concrete things in this report that we would like to look forward to as the HNS Club. One is deinstitutionalization and independent life. It's the process we've entered, but it's causing a lot of disputes and objections. It is also my personal experience to the representatives, and I think that many representatives share this experience, the greatest number of questions, complaints, requests, contacts from the sphere of persons with disabilities or their families are just coming to the topic of deinstitutionalisation and the problems associated with it. We've neglected preparation and individually planned support and without it going, it's a car without wheels. That car can be fantastic but without wheels he can't go anywhere. And the wheels of the deinstitutionalisation process are a network of service providers, housing programmes, health care, support for work and employment and all other forms of support that can then really enable independent life. The second thing we would like to point out in particular is cooperation with civil society organisations. The Ombudsman herself finds that in many places in Croatia the associations are the only providers of services with persons with disabilities. And it is not in itself controversial because the idea of a modern state is that the civil sector is taking over some of the activities and some of the tasks that have so far been in the country's exclusive or majority jurisdiction but that should be adequately paid and adequate support should be given. And final about this report. It seems to me that the key problems stem from five basic, controversial points. The first item is laws and regulations that need to be intensively aligned primarily with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Recommendations of the Advocate, most of our work here in the Croatian Parliament. The second point is to implement what is written in the laws, the classic Croatian problem. We, if we write something in the law very often, do not implement it. The third point of the problem is the non-compliance of opportunities and services in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. For us at the HNS, it is totally unacceptable for any citizen, not just a person with disabilities, any citizen cannot do some basic things such as education or health care to achieve the same quality or to an equal extent depending on where he lives. Because he doesn't live in Zagreb or because he doesn't live in Split or because he doesn't live in a big city or because he doesn't live in a small town depending on what the problem is. This inequality is inadmissible and it has been following us since the establishment of an independent Republic of Croatia and certainly is something that we must all work on in the context of people with disabilities, but also in the context of all citizens and citizens of this country. The fourth point of the dispute is the problem of accompanying programmes and services, service providers or programmes such as Psychology in the community, early intervention systems, support in kindergartens and schools, etc., etc. And the fifth point of the problem for us is the incoordination of the system. This is something I personally spoke of several times in the Croatian Parliament. With us, every institution is driving on its track, and they don't look back at each other at all, let alone cooperate. There's one scary sentence in the attorney's report in one chapter that says that in one situation we have resources, but because of the lack of coordination, insufficient networking is these resources we don't use. It's madness, it's absolute madness and it's something that needs to be changed here and everywhere. All that I have listed, these five points from which the key problems of persons with disabilities in Croatia are, in fact, the key problems of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Both laws and non-compliance and non-coordination are all key problems for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the problem here is that because of these problems, some of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens have been denied the initial possibility of achieving equal opportunities in society, which is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81930	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the esteemed MPs, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81931	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I must say I agree with your debate, but I wanted to add something to your debate, and it is related to the possibility of involving persons with disabilities in all segments of society that you have spoken of. I'd say one piece like this, let's take a policy now, we've had in the past two MPs here who were people with disabilities. One was in your coalition government, one was with us at HDZ, but here we have this four years not one representative who is a person with disabilities and simply why there is no access, why people can't get involved. This is why today the lady who translates this sign language only translates it because today she has a report from the Ombudsman of people with disabilities. However, all individuals are interested in really political views in our parties, session parliaments, various political shows, and that is simply unreachable, especially for 12,000 deaf people who have hearing problems. Then there's one more thing. Let's just say the limitations of enrolment in high school, that's exactly what the D.A. was talking about, and that's what these medical criteria are. So it's really unclear who dares to say that one let's tell deaf people they can't mix a cake quality, and we've seen that there are really programs and there are trained pastries. Who is it that can say that one person who may be in a wheelchair or a wheelchair or something like that...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81932	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81933	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Comrade twilight, I agree with everything you've said. I'll respond very briefly. It seems to me that it is based on the problem and it is not a problem of politics or of the Croatian Parliament alone, it is actually a problem of social perception. Because to make a lot of people and us, sometimes, and make that mistake ourselves, makes it a solution, that what's good is what leads to isolation, non-inclusion, to make it easier for people, not to bother them, so... hard. It's not at all. So the change of attitude must be as follows: everyone must have an equal chance of being involved in all the activities of society, and we as one responsible, social, liberal, it's a question and freedom, it's a question and personal freedoms that I often talk about here. Personal freedoms of persons with disabilities are threatened by this inequality and inequality. So it has to be a fundamental idea, that what we're looking for are equal chances, and what we're giving as a state is that all of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who, for some reason, are more likely to be available, we try to compensate for the mechanisms at our disposal. And in that sense, then and all of what you're saying is absolutely in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81934	I have to react because disability isn't just visible, so colleagues of the twilight may have agents with disabilities, but it's just not visible. ... I'm right about that, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81935	Dear colleague Coleman, after your debate, let's say that if I had applied, I would have given up the debate because I could sign it. I completely agree with your debate. In particular, one fact needs to be highlighted from your debate, and it is actually very bad, negative for us as a society, and this is a non-compliance of service opportunities across the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is easier for people in the City of Zagreb than elsewhere because the City of Zagreb really adapts year after year to people with disabilities, but is it really crucial for people with disabilities where they live? Which is why local self-government doesn't have Mr. Hrg enough to worry about and why the state isn't helping them. What you were saying, you spoke as a member of the ruling Kukuriku coalition and I like your constructive warning about the sea of difficulties facing people with disabilities every day and I hope that your words will get into the ears of those who act as executive authorities and who actually have the most influence on how problems are solved or not solved. And I fully agree with you, and we should commend the Attorney General's report and her efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81936	Replicate response, distinguished representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81937	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Vuksic, I also hope that the words will ring where they should ring the bell. But also one part of the responsibility is on us. And my colleague Kosor said in her presentation that we're talking and we're full of nice words and beautiful ideas, and then somehow we forget it. And we here in this House are also making budgets and various laws and other situations where we can at least influence the decision-making process. And in that sense, these reports should actually serve as permanent literature for all of us here on benches that we are constantly reminded of in our overall work that actually the things that are the fundamental problems of this society and of this country that we should still be responsible for in that sense that we do our best to change them. The second part about the lack of coordination of services and possibilities, I think that is if you would ask me to list five key problems of the Republic of Croatia around 4 I might be able to think, so in some combination some 4 would be in some others. But inconsistency, the dramatic discrepancy of access to basic services is certainly one problem that I would always list among the 5 key problems of the Republic of Croatia. It's impossible for people to be discriminated against in such a small country. All of Croatia together with its shape, we cross the car in 10 hours, along with its awkward shape. It is impossible that in such a small country someone who lives in Vukovar or someone who lives in Požega or someone who lives in Dubrovnik and someone who lives in Split does not have the same conditions just because they live in one of these cities, and of course this applies to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81938	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Coleman, I think the essence of your debate and should actually be the essence of our debate today about this report is what you summed up in two words, and these are equal chances. Based on principle, they're all different and they're all equal. So, not only is the harmonisation of our laws with a fundamental document and the greatest human rights document that has been passed over these decades, but also the consciousness, the fundamental political consciousness because I am talking about political consciousness because political consciousness then determines how we live. Well, in that context and what I mentioned earlier, but I probably don't think anyone has heard me since we who speak must have the same chance in the Croatian Parliament of speaking, equal terms, at least that. Political space often hears statements that are actually patronizing as you yourself have said, which are full of compassion, which are full of great understanding. But then what's called both internal and every other political life needs to be translated. So when your colleague disqualifies another politician with statements that he's autistic to the other, then you have to speak out loud and plainly that's actually a message to the autistic people, that's a message to their families. Because insulting another politician in that way actually means insulting all people with disabilities. That's what I call consciousness, and it can develop among other things through the media. And look at everything today, look at today all the electronic media and all the other media. See how much this debate will take place. Remember some of the shows and the contact shows, some of the shows involving several participants in the direct transmission, which spoke for example about the problems of Ms. Attorney General. I can't remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81940	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81941	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Kosor, you're absolutely right. I'll start with this last one. And TV shows are kind of ghetto. So, you don't talk about the meaning stream TV shows, the problems of people with disabilities, but it's already kind of in some kind of geto some sequential terms, some shows. So already here when we're moving actually the whole thing is set up so it goes off instead of going online. And as for equal chances, you know that the foundation of my political idea is the freedom of an individual and of my party. And it seems to me, I often talk about it in Sabura, and it seems to me that the same odds, the initial equal chances in society are something without which individual's freedom does not exist. And in that sense, the unequal chances for people with disabilities are completely contrary to what I consider to be the greatest value a democratic and developed political system can to some extent guarantee for citizens and that is personal freedom. And that's why I think it's a key problem when all of this comes down to one thing. Then this problem of equal chances is actually the key, the key to the story from which it should then go both into detour and to concrete measures and laws and procedures and regulations and services and everything the report speaks of very closely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81942	The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81943	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colman, from what you've said on behalf of the club, we could actually sum up one sentence in a statement, we say equally, and in fact so unequal. When we talk about people with disabilities who have more than a billion people in the world or who make up almost 12% of the population in the Republic of Croatia. What we're talking about twice a year most often when we're being heard and we're being represented is when we get a lawyer here or another date is when we mark December 3rd, World Day of Persons with Disabilities. And here's our story, whether we want to admit it or not, usually ends. Very rarely we engage at lower levels to actually meet all the problems that people with disabilities face. I will remind once again of traffic availability, architectural barriers, some cities have successfully solved them, I can say here in northern Croatia it is well solved, but the fact is that access to education or access to employment is simply not the same. We're talking about equal chances, we're talking about what we as a policy could do, and you've said some of your own person's views yourself, so I hope that here as a member of the ruling coalition you can do something about budgeting and have opportunities to use this political tool that's in your hands. So, it's not enough that this problem is recognized in my opinion at the level of political action, or if we say we recognized it then we didn't speak out loud about it where it was supposed to be, and that's primarily in harmonising the law with one another or in providing financial resources to make these odds really equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81944	Thank you very much. The Honorable Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81945	Here's a thank you. Here I just wanted to relate to this comment about services, actually we have a lot of questions about the office in which people can have, whose family members are and whose members are children or adults to move to the City of Zagreb to get the service they need here because in their midst they can't achieve it. Or they ask me, since the City of Zagreb has a decision regarding housing and accessibility, how to move from their environments to the City of Zagreb because they can no longer live in their midst because they live in a place close by, for example. The city. So we have some families where parents are single with disabled adults and where they don't actually have the ability to get physical therapy, medical care in the house. Because there is no service provider in this area, for example This service provider says he's too expensive to pay for the transport to his employee, and then there's the Social Care Center to offer and that person says look at your only option is to go to an elderly and powerless home or to an institution because I can't offer you anything else in this area and your parent is more powerless than he can help you, soon he'll be a person with disabilities. I say, it's not far from Zagreb, it's near the town of Samobor. We have a situation where parents moved to the City of Zagreb to get their children, i.e. a child to get their support on Goljak. And that child moved here, that family. It happened that this child was suspended after a year. Where is this family now? She changed her place of residence, changed her job, some weren't parents, two parents didn't even get a job here. And it happened that after a year that service was lifted from that child. So we have situations that really show the weight of this problem. Besides, I just wanted to make a little reference, but I don't know if there's any, there's no, there's no, there's Mrs. Murganic, about the parent status and say that he's not lifted by this new Social Care Act, but he's not an extended circle of people who can be carers. So what I emphasized at the outset of many people, adults living in families with their spouses, can't get wives the ability to exercise this right, so there is no support that is important for them to have care in their own home. As far as scholarships are concerned, in the law when we wrote this report, it was, and it is still stated, that scholarships are classified as revenue related to the abolition of the right to a personal disability, i.e. a reduction in the amount of scholarship. After that, however, and after the pressure of all those involved this year, a guideline has come, which actually states that this refers to those scholarships that mean those when they are working for a scholarship, for example. a child or a student or a student is a company or someone who is actually looking for it. So there is again a difference in these scholarships means for those who will be employed tomorrow after that college or those who are scholarshipd for their excellence and in fact motivation or because they are also in the social care system, etc. So that's where it's made as well now, but again for a small group. I would like to use more and more about the media and say that every day we can see that movies and some educational shows are being shown more and more to show the specificity of people with disabilities, lives in families, etc., the sport of people with disabilities is being followed. However, what the Convention has said clearly states that not only in specialized shows but in all shows it is necessary. Because people with disabilities are part of this society, citizens like everyone else and we're also interested in how we're going to pay some certain expenses tomorrow, and I'm interested in what it's going to be like to sort the trash because tomorrow I don't know people with disabilities are using like I'm doing some aids or some supplies that are going to have to be classified. Well, maybe that's why we're gonna have to pay for more expensive garbage than maybe some other guy. I'm just as interested in it as anyone else, which means some of this society's problems. And as such, I think we have something to say, we just need to give us a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81946	Thank you very much. We are continuing with an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81947	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed attorney for people with disabilities, deputies, respected associates, colleagues and colleagues. My debate will be very similar to what I had last year, which unfortunately shows that the problems of people with disabilities don't change much, or that we can say that there is a shift, thank God that there are, but that they are not enough and that the problems that this group of people within our society remain as they are. What I'd like to point out and point out whenever we're discussing public defenders, or those institutions, is that people often don't understand what the lawyer actually serves. It is fortunate that it is most often not so in the case of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, or to a much smaller extent than it is, for example, the Ombudsman, who even appears to the citizens with requests to annul the judgments of power, etc. etc. Since we already have specialised defenders the problems you face, and we have been in contact in the meantime and through the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and on some specific problems, are much more concrete and much more focused than those dealt with by the Ombudsman. That is why we have also decided on the institution of a special Ombudsman for disabled persons because we have detected persons with disabilities as a particularly vulnerable group within our society, we have done the same thing with children, with gender equality as values that are extremely important to us and, of course, had a civil defender. So people with disabilities are a group within our society that is threatened, that deserves our attention and our help. So, as I said the problems of people with disabilities, I would divide them into five groups, I didn't classify them according to I would say values or weight, but five main problems that are actually equally legal or in the same way affect people with disabilities. It's unfortunately the same problems I talked about last year, which I'll probably talk about in the year, but that's our reality. First of all, it is social care, i.e. the availability of social care, and it has already been said a lot, so I wouldn’t hold back. Another thing is accessibility is also something that has already been discussed, which, where most can be done and I believe that in this segment is exactly and most done because many units of local self-government invest a lot so that all public facilities can be made available to people with disabilities just as the state institutions do. And even there are regulations, so the new buildings that are being built must have access ramps and so on. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that in the construction profession it is most often not so, although it is projected, these are some mounting ramps that are then disassembled and moved to other objects after obtaining the necessary permits. I hope we don't testify to that again. The third problem is housing, so that's a lot to be said about, I wouldn't stick around. I'd stick to the last two problems I mentioned, that's mobility and exclusion. So we're talking about mobility within the place where the person lives, but within the Republic of Croatia. Some units of local self-government, some cities and municipalities solve it better, some solve it worse. We don't have any unified, standardised solutions for the whole country. They can thus set an example of my city, Osijek City, where there is a vehicle for the transport of disabled persons owned by a city transport company, i.e. a public utility engaged in transport. And a person with disabilities if he has a need to go somewhere, so he has a need for public transport can report to the mentioned company, request transportation, and also request at a certain time that this same transport is returned home. However, Osijek may be a better example, and unfortunately we have much worse examples, and I will only stay in my county. For example, in all of Baranja you do not have any, it is not an institutionally resolved transport, i.e. mobility of people with disabilities, and it is solved through other aspects, which is activity, associations, volunteers who help people with disabilities. And that's where we get the fifth problem, which is the exclusion, the exclusion that people are experiencing precisely because of the problems I've listed. So many institutions are inaccessible, many public spaces are inaccessible, they have housing problems, they have income problems, so they have low incomes, etc. etc. How do you solve exclusion? In my opinion, through two ways, first of all through education. Again, let me say that, that is my professional deformity, I come from the education sector, and I believe that people with disabilities should certainly be involved in regular teaching. Believe me, children who grow up in an environment with a disabled person have a special, different sensitivity to them. For example, at a elementary school in Vukovar when I was working, we had a boy in a wheelchair. You won't believe his class was being kidnapped for who's going to help him, who's going to take him to another classroom, who's going to clean his books. An outstanding example of how children can use their energy very positively when they are directed properly to help that person. I believe that one day when these children grow up, when they see people with disabilities as passersby, they'll always stop, they'll help, it won't be something foreign to them. So, this boy, we were talking about here, I think that colleague Kosor was just talking about it, didn't ask for pity, didn't even get it, but you know what he got? He got involved, he got the feeling he belonged to that class, he got their help, but he got the help they don't give as someone he needs, but as someone they want to give it to as someone who's equal. And that's a big difference. Another thing is deinstitutionalization, we have opportunities to visit users, meaning such accommodations, deinstitutionalized, which were extremely excited by the same, who said they felt useful, that they often felt useless in institutions, that they felt excluded in another sense. Because these people believe me are filled with solving everyday problems, little problems, organizing their own lives without depending on some public cuisines, so on the schedule of some institutions etc. etc. So, one extraordinary experience that I would recommend to any MP who can, go, visit such communities, see how these people and you see how they can be involved in their community and as good neighbors, and as someone who runs the household. Much is mentioned, and I will conclude with this that our system, primarily social care and is often lacking, often unrecognizable or well solved by certain problems of people with disabilities. But in general, when we talk about the social system, I have studied several in the EU, I don't think you have a happy solution that can be said to be excellent and satisfactory for all its potential users. I see here a solution in something called social entrepreneurship, and it's quite the root in the West. What's social entrepreneurship? These are associations, civil society, individuals, somewhere even companies, depending on what forms fill that hole that the formal social system cannot fill. So, we have an example, let's say, I wouldn't exactly call it social entrepreneurship like that, but in Baranja, which I mentioned where there's no institutionally resolved transportation of people with disabilities, that's what an association does. Unfortunately, an association that does not have a permanent income, which cannot rely on it, therefore on some stronger security, but an association that works and helps those in the Baranja area. Unfortunately, I have to say that the members of the association are mostly parents, brothers, sisters, spouses of people with disabilities. I think the public needs to be more sensitive to this problem, and I was also talking about how. So one of them is education, so I believe that such an association in Vukovar will have a lot of potential members one day when these students that I was talking about become minors and maybe even before. So, that summed up. I've brought up some problems that I think are important. Unfortunately, they are more or less the same as they were in recent years. Of course, I join both the thank-yous and the congratulators and the occupiers, excuse me, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and her associates who are doing a great job and I hope they will continue to work with him in cooperation with us, how much help we can, and I certainly invite all my colleagues and colleagues to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81948	We have a replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you mentioned mobility, so you offered me because that's what I wanted to talk to you about, but there was no opportunity in those terms for me to say something about it. But related, mobility problem related to the awareness problem most colleagues and colleagues spoke of both equal opportunities and equal opportunities. So, I'd just like to mention, here I think, the ladies I've been working with for a long time, sitting in front of us, they probably know what I'm talking about. So we've long since passed, say, the Law of Movement with the help of the blind person guide dogs. Not long ago, two cases occurred, one in Zagreb where the president of the association, very well known, so the person who made a lot of things, tried to get on a tram with a dog guide, had a lot of trouble. So a person who is quite certain in that tram could recognize at least two, three persons and know that it is a person who is fighting for the rights of the blind so that they can move with the help of a guide dog. The guide dog means what we stand for, which is freedom, the life I want. Similarly, one person, also a very valuable activist from Karlovac, was literally expelled from the train because he entered with the help of the guide dog. And one example I heard recently, so on a plane one that flew from Zagreb to Dubrovnik was to board with all other persons with disabilities, the plane was not delayed but was only waiting for all passengers to board and then that person to enter, of course with the help of the persons accompanying. One lady, she's quite famous in public, but I'm not going to name her now because she's not here, so she can't say anything about it, she said what we're waiting for, waiting for that person to board. I repeat, the plane wasn't late, and the lady said when she saw what was going on, so that person with disabilities could have been on another plane. She could have taken another plane...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81950	Time's up, mates. A lot of it. Replica response, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Kosor, I absolutely agree with you. These are actually sad stories, but that's exactly what I was talking about. The moment we change our awareness of this problem, then we won't need laws, then people themselves will know what to do, know that these people need to be involved, primarily involvement. And that's why when I told these little boys, when I was talking to this class, the day they were citizens, when they were traveling on that plane, train or tram, I don't think that's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81952	We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, her debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Attorney-General for Persons with Disabilities with Associates, I accept, of course, and support this report of yours, which, of course, serves to protect the monitoring and promotion of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities, and, of course, gives everyone one picture, a picture of the situation. I'll actually look back on health care only in my discussion. In the field of health care, the report itself notes the difficult availability of all the necessary health services because the treatment and rehabilitation of course requires the increasing costs we could have heard so far, and people with disabilities are very difficult to afford. The report also cites treatment problems and rehabilitation of persons with mental impairment, or mental disorders, and would also refer to the problem. When we talk about the inaccessibility of people with disabilities, this inaccessibility affects more people precisely because of their greater focus on the health system because, as you know, they use the healthcare system not only frequently but continuously. Unfortunately, hospital services are in such a state of waiting for a long time, some health services cannot even be achieved on the burden of health insurance, so we see in the report that orthopaedic aids must be charged, as well as very often consumer material purchases which particularly affects people with disabilities. As regards the availability of health services for disabled persons, I must stress here that they are a prevention of further disability, and we must always keep that in mind when we talk about people with disabilities. The complaints you state also state the problem in the development of the so-called so-called development. psychiatry in the community, while improving the quality of health care for people with mental disorders in the direction of extra-patient treatment or rehabilitation. I think anyone who's worked on this problem or who's conscious of this problem is aware that it can't be done by the association, that it can't be left to civil society alone and can't just do local self-government. This must therefore be a vertical initiative, i.e. a vertical connection. If we also have infrastructure space locally, we have equipment then again we have a problem with the staff for people with disabilities. And it should also be mentioned here that we always have for decades a huge surplus of staff at some economic and other colleges that unfortunately work now and for very low jobs, and for the last decade the doctor is less, there is no opening new places for it. Maybe when we talk about these things there might be a certain space within the system that can be done in terms of improving the protocol, in terms of relationships with the person, we can work on these relationships, but it's a small space. Due to these problems, the absence of an outpatient system of treatment or weak and services in the community that would support independent life and functioning, and the lack of rehabilitation, of course there are multiple hospitalisations, social exclusion, stigmatisation, isolation, etc. which is a further need for people with disabilities. The report would further refer to the need to improve and develop early intervention and rehabilitation of children with neurological and motor disorders. Why do I say "habitation"? Because these children are not rehabilitated, but in this case we learn new skills and knowledge that they never had. In fact, when you listen to these parents and when you know the examples around us, the consequences are that parents are often left to themselves and say my child does not belong anywhere. It's the impression that such parents are following with such children. I therefore believe that further efforts need to be made to connect the system and health care, education and social care with the aim of developing a systematic early intervention because parents would be ideal to have one door, one key, one door or one information. However, these are some ideal conditions that we cannot but must strive to improve. When you ask the profession then for early intervention it is said that up to three years should be intervened, that parents should always be involved in advisory work because all neurorisk children must be monitored in the essence of life by the team of experts and must be monitored in the same way and language, speech or language-speaking, motors, sensory development etc. because, unfortunately, the first delay in motor development is seen most often. Therefore, I repeat here should continue to work on strengthening cross-sectoral cooperation in a way of team cooperation. Because what's going on? Very often after adolescence, we wonder what happened, but in the past, we should know where it was going from the beginning, but somewhere it was missing in some segment. I therefore advocate cross-sectoral cooperation or teamwork for such children. I know a boy who was born with a discharge diagnosis of a highly neuro-risk child with an adaptation disorder. Art was performed and parents were self-initiated to attend neuro-development exercises on Goljak, etc. And when you listen to the story of such parents then we see that we haven't systematically decided to schedule here and I think that such parents should be very helpful because it's always them, today it's a five-year-old kid and it always remains a doubt of the parents themselves whether I did it right, whether I was on time and we have to ask ourselves as a system if we're doing enough, whether we did it in time. Why do I say that? Because it's very important, the sooner we recognize less disability or greater ability. In this way we save, in this way we can invest in new services from these savings, we can invest in the new profession that we very much need in such children. Therefore, medical diagnosis, such children have medical diagnosis, but they go into social services. So we can't separate it, we can't just say that the sociale cares about it, but we have to work on that teamwork again. In the future what do we expect? We expect fewer people with a higher disability rate. So those who are, in fact, our goal is to keep them as disabled as possible, that is, to keep them as much as possible to function. Because difficulties can be dealt with but certainly not with discrimination. Here, Madam Attorney, of course I support your work further, your work and your associates because I think you're doing a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81954	Thank you, too, dear fellow MP. Dear Representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81955	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So when you read and analyze this report and not only this summary but this whole part of it, then we can first of all conclude one thing that the relationship with people with disabilities depends on a number of factors. And here it is stated, these factors can be shared whether it depends on political social, cultural and economic factors. And also in this report, and in history, we can unfortunately define that during history and this attitude towards people with disabilities has been implemented, and unfortunately, segregation practice, and it is the separation of people based on different criteria, which are in line with the principles of human rights and freedom. Such a practice that people with disabilities can be helped in a separate environment, insulated by the rest of society, has further improved social stigma, reluctance, classification and tolerance. Most people with disabilities after these things when you ask them what their biggest problem is then they still show that at this point it is a very bad personal financial situation and the dissatisfaction of the state towards them, or the possibility or inability to participate in society, and in particular this concerns the possibility of education and employment. Of course, it is our job, by means of Croatian laws and this House, to define the assumptions that these persons participate in social life with equal opportunities and rights for all citizens. Now how to do it through this report and during this debate there are several modes that we would like to create. But these modalitys, I would individually suggest that this is one mode of mercy, so let's be merciful to these people. It's also a modality, a medical module, so we can only fix something medically, make it right, and that's the solution. It's a social moment, so let's just include them in our other people's work anyway, so we'll get a certain result or a right-based model, so let's give them legal rights, and then we'll work it out. Such individual modals are certainly not a good solution, but we must look to unite in that part. One quote I would read that the basic message is that disability means nothing but the responsibility of the community to win a battle that must not be individual but a battle of the whole community. Now that we're talking about practical battles, then as mayor, I have to make a special point, which is that this battle must first begin a relationship at a fundamental level, in our municipalities and cities. Because understandably we might and too... to have someone come to us from Zagreb, from the government, from somewhere else, to solve our basic problems. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, first of all, there's the task of us, and we know each other, and we talk to these people, and we can find the best solutions between us. But it's like we're talking about that part, so what are our basic powers like cities and municipalities? There are two basic things we can do, and that is primarily accessibility and housing access and also preschool education. That's what I said our city budgets and our funds can be directly installed into our... So here I can say and an example of this practice is that really accessibility and affordable housing in a way that we have to solve and we've solved all those barriers, physical barriers, buttocks and roads to be in one level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is, of course, particularly emphasized is that all institutions that are required to have access mean over the ramp. Especially to say that one basic central object is the House of Culture which is... the area which we are financed from the European Union funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We especially made sure that there was first of all a library to be at the level with... who are very accessible to people with disabilities, that they have an elevator, that they also have sanitary knots all that we've taken care of long before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it wasn't the law that forced us to do it, it wasn't the access to disability yet, it was what we talked about with our people, the citizens who are here by our side, who live with us anyway. Another thing I would like to say about preschool education, yes, it is really in that part, it is our ingenuity and here is the town of Lepoglava has already made a complete project with a building permit, where not only did we have to adapt our existing kindergarten to new teaching standards that are in line with the European Union but we also saw that there are also rooms and work opportunities, but that we continue to finance in that part, that we have a educator, psychologist and logo. Which we are and... logos financed from the budget that could work with such children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we don't have is a direct part but we can, and that's primary education, high school and higher education, I said that the possibility of education and what has and statistics that very few especially women, people with disabilities have schools. That, above all, in primary school education, the same thing in our schools has the possibility of educators, psychologists, logos. In primary education, we can also say that this year with this project we received funding from one of these schools from the Ministry of Defence where we are now going to build a lift for people with disabilities. So every year we set ourselves up a task that one thing we've detected we have to do in that part. In higher education we have seen the best incentives are scholarships from this part, from this debate and it has helped me to install it into our decision that compulsory persons with disabilities for higher education will necessarily be a scholarship without other criteria. Whoever answers will get a scholarship from our city. In employment and work, what the city can help are public works and we have indeed given the task, as well as employment without the establishment of a working relationship. In each group, for as many years as we have, people with disabilities are mandatory. We asked... we talked to them and we offered them real work, both in the city administration and in the home of culture and other places according to their capabilities. Not to mention independent life and life in the community, participation in political public life and participation in cultural life, recreation, entertainment and sports. If we're talking about being involved in political life I can really say here's my former deputy mayor was a person with disabilities. So you can certainly and truly in the work of that person we have included many things in our decisions and allocated funds. And now that we're talking about these means, I said in the beginning that the relationship depends on a number of factors, I would say first of all politically and economically. Politically because all these decisions depend on the man in charge, if he doesn't want it to be done for sure. Let us be realistic, with all the wishes, demands, memos and other things, it must be a political desire, and of course it needs the means. Every time we talk, it won't be enough, it'll always take more, but we have three sources of resources. These are primarily the original budgetary revenues, the second being that both the relevant ministries and, of course, the European Union funds can be used. The example of the town of Lepoglava, we used and used all three pillars to improve the living conditions of a disabled person. But I would make a concrete suggestion, that we really don't need too much... about this political will because here's the case with me that in things that are legally already defined, that's what we need to single out 5% for firefighters, 0.7% for the Red Cross, civil protection and other things, to introduce a mandatory allocation of funds for people with disabilities for a number of reasons. In this analysis, we have about 1% of people with disabilities in our midst, in our society. It's still one power, and if it were to go into legal procedure, then we could all have the same relationship... That's 0.5%, not much, but it's still the question and what about those funds. I suggest that in this part of the coordination and with the resolution ministry, you, Madam Attorney, have one analysis of the current situation, that we also propose measures to improve and carry out this action plan, that these are funds that will be pooled at a higher level. Why? It's happening to me now that we're getting requests not only from your city but also from all the municipalities, the cities... the mayor will help more, have more understanding, it's hard. To whom to give, as you give, rather than to plan at an annual level, what we normally need on a legal basis to allocate these funds and then, together, through one coordination of these associations, can these funds that we have, which we have singled out, have a high quality attitude. It'll be a means to use it. She really... about you, meddling politics and everything. After all, here's the conclusion, our desire is for the life of a disabled person to go as painlessly as possible, as little trauma as possible, and to continue to live their lives peacefully and happily, and that the greatest limits that... be solved as soon as possible because these words we said today should ring our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81956	Thank you, Your Honor. You spoke about what local units, communities, can do to improve the lives of people with disabilities, and most of all, it is worth the maximum that is often spoken and used by ecology: think globally, act locally. Because really every problem is actually a local problem, tormenting a certain person, a certain individual in a particular place, and these problems must then be solved and must not hide behind any legal obligations or responsibilities, avoiding these legal obligations. What we must all have in our hearts and in our minds is that we must help our fellow citizens every day, every day and every day, and we must never give up on it. What is worrying is that the number of organisations operating locally is reduced and aimed at helping in specific problems, individual groups of people with disabilities, and that is not good in any case. It is not good for cities and municipalities to actually cut their budgets on associations and thus save some budget minuses, on the other hand to increase on representation expenditures or not to give God some other content. And that's why these associations are important because they're just replacing what laws and legal solutions can't see in a global way. And here is your unit of local self-government for all the efforts that, in cooperation with associations, try to actually improve the living conditions of your fellow citizens first and foremost, and that is for every praise. It's also in my midst and in many other environments, and that's the way to go every day, every day and every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81957	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81958	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague who doesn't need to tell you much. Indeed, thank you, too, because here you are as a local leader, the mayor of the city of Ludbreg, and you know very well what and how to help, especially your Association of the Sun, which is one of the best-quality associations that primarily uses and funds of the European Union funds, and all of this invests in the even development and assistance of people with disabilities, of course with your help and the resources of your city budget. But you said rightly, perhaps the problem is that part of the fluctuation of associations to be founded more than they should, and they do not have that capacity, the capacity of the rights which should be that of the personal interest and interest of their entire associations in a balanced manner and in a quality way realised. And that's what I said we should make maybe a greater coordination of those associations with a common position. Because here's only one piece, we're really opening up the possibility of these EU funds. Who doesn't know, we have experience. Here we really use them, these funds are very hard and hard work, and individually they can't accomplish anything and especially not without the help of cities and municipalities. To make one co-ordination with the common interests with our help from these funds that I said if I could do it, I think we would know very well in that part then to invest in the general benefit of all citizens, and especially here are the people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81959	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81960	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This has now turned into a local debate at the state level. Well, here's a esteemed colleague of the sentence yes, something like that often the local leaders wait for someone from Zagreb to solve their problems. She asked me to call you back. They are not waiting for local leaders in my humble opinion that someone from Zagreb will come to them with problems, but local leaders are trying to solve problems in their midst scratching on the door in Zagreb by various ministries not now this year, last year, before, but all these years. Because we live in one terribly centralized state and we don't have systemically solved issues and practically created conditions for them to be solved in every local self-government unit, in every village, in every city. Because it is not in Zagreb, it means that a system of discrimination is being resolved on the ground. And the present territorial discrimination of persons with disabilities is present daily. Because some municipalities simply cannot meet their needs, impose with all their goodwill, and simply wait for someone to come and help them to do so. The other thing is in cities both with you and my colleague Bilic and me, even in some other cities that probably can if there's a little sensitivity, it can help. But unfortunately, we have one discrimination that is not conditioned by the political will of the local leaders, but by not being resolved by the system. If the funds were to be allocated, I didn't understand whether you were referring to funds from the local self-government budget or to decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81961	Yeah, the local thing can also be historic. So the reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81962	Thank you, Mr. President. So we agree with one part, which is that centralization needs to be in greater scope, and we're already saying that, not a year, two days. That's what we've been saying for 20 years, because we're really in a high-level centralised state. But decentralisation responsibility can't be, financially, yes. But there you should see the same way. What you said was that the only result was that you were getting funds in a way that scratched the doors of the ministries. Yeah, it was before. I had to knock, unfortunately, for eight years, not knock, but scratch that door, and I couldn't achieve anything for eight years. And that's even good, because instead of the funds that were then divided by hand and hat benefits, we have to admit that because I was a participant for eight years that I started doing programs and projects. And today I'm knocking on the Ministry's door and offering complete programs and projects with a building permit, with all the things I need. Maybe because I'm an engineer and that's how I learned, I don't philosophy, I don't understand, we know what to do. And right now, we are also giving this very solution that the same resources should be allocated and spent a lot on these things and especially local units that have no capacity if there are two, three employees having a hard ability to have both sensitivity and identify all the problems they have at their local level, including the problems of people with disabilities, that those assets that should still be allocated should then be managed at one other level by those who know best. And it needs to be primarily efficient, and then the results are behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81963	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81964	Thank you very much. Now another experience about this globally local, or local state. As a minister of the family, but also as a defender in the ministry, I encouraged along with my co-workers the "Accession Croatia" project. So it was a project that had to be provided first of all, and we did this in the Government means of accessibility to those most important objects that were mentioned today. And here I have to say that the experiences were such that some at the local level responded, but some did not. So we had to go to some of them, literally pushing them, and some of them were ready to cooperate with the projects immediately. So there they are, quite certain the truth is somewhere in the middle. And when Zagreb, as you said, comes and wants to come, sometimes there is no echo at the local level, which depends of course on the profile of the mayoral leaders, mayors, mayors and their true, real will to do something about it. And secondly, that and the possibilities of course only if the state offers some means then of course I think we should encounter some kind of echo. And the second thing you mentioned that was often mentioned in this debate, which is that in some ways we often hear actually words that should mean that we should be merciful to people with disabilities. That's where I agree with you. I do not appeal to compassion and this occasion, and often it happens that politicians also misusing terms. Not people with special needs talking about disabled people, but because people with special needs do not exist. We all have the same needs for air, for food and for normal life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81965	Replica response, distinguished representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81966	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, it's really commendable to this action that you've really started, this accessibility project for people with disabilities. This has indeed helped greatly to get rid of these many barriers, meaning these physical barriers in that part of Croatia. But what you said that you had to call some to get involved, there's one problem, I'm also talking to my colleagues, the problem is that the support from that level is in a way that is not given in the total amount of how real it costs but given in a certain percentage. And an elevator in a municipality that has a budget of 500 thousand kuna, a million or two million kunas costs the same as in the City of Zagreb that has 6 billion budgets, and all have the same conditions unfortunately. So the elevator that costs if you go to one level of about 150 to 200 thousand kunas is mostly 50% co-financed in some way and it's not easy to give someone that 100,000 kunas are easy if someone else gives them 100 thousand kunas. And at the same time, that same elevator gets someone who has their own budget from 40 to 50 million kuna and still has the same way of funding. That's why I said that we should do a little bit of an analysis of needs, real needs because there's someone who can't give and has less fiscal income, and he needs to be fully financed by one of those ramps, one of those elevators or some other content he needs. And someone who still has 40, 50 or more million kunas if he can't get the mayor out of his budget to do it without support then I really don't know what we're talking about here today. And it really takes a slightly different approach to make and analyze and a lot of things are, from small means, not easy but there's a lot to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81967	Honorable representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81968	Thank you very much. Well, you've obviously encouraged all of us unit leaders of local self-government to speak on the subject and to essentially appeal to all colleagues who have not yet been able to do so or may have been put to sleep to apply to projects that are being explored and programs that are being explored by the ministries. I would like to point out and praise the projects the previous government started. In 2008 the first contract was signed by the City of Vodice with the Ministry of Defence for Purchase of Elevators in the City Library and then at the university, we now receive thanks to the resources of the Institute for Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the City Administration. For years, the Ministry of Tourism has been calling for a competition called the so-called "Step ahead." Thanks to this we have three access ramps for entering the sea, which is a big thing not only for our citizens with disabilities but also for guests. Then, the aqua lift is now in the procurement phase and here is another commendation to the previous government that started it, this one, of course, continued, and the appeal to our colleagues to apply to these programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81969	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Ada Damianac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81970	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for persons with disabilities with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has been said today, and there is obviously a lot of problems. Unfortunately, we're not going to solve them today, but it's good to talk about them, to sensitize the problem, and to finally work on solving it not just today, but every day. I could get involved with my colleagues in the debate, which seems to be in the local self-government unit in my unit, but I won't. I'm not even going into the entire report because it's very wide. I will remain on one segment only, which is education and education, and I will now speak as a teacher with a long-standing working experience in the desire to make my contribution to solving at least one small problem or to encourage its resolution. In the field of preschool education according to data from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the school year 2013/2014. 5972 children with developmental difficulties were included, which is an increase compared to the previous year. In elementary schools, 16 464 children were included in regular programmes, while 2269 of them were included in primary schools with a special programme. The integration of students in preschool education and primary school and still somewhat and still works, but it is becoming smaller for high school students without talking about college students. Students with special needs often need specific support in mastering educational content and therefore need to be involved in the work of assistants in teaching and professional support to teachers. Unfortunately, however, there are still no regulations to regulate primary school education for children with developmental difficulties. The adoption of the rules should not only ensure inclusion or access to regular schools but also provide support or support for both students with developmental difficulties and teachers. The best way and the greatest results can be achieved just by including the assistants in the follow-up but in order not to be short-term, the way to finance assistants in the follow-up, their role and powers must be foreseen. For now, it is still well left to teachers who are educated, self-educed and put forth huge efforts to work with children with developmental difficulties. Each child has the right to education and education in the middle of his peers. Therefore, an assistant could be a support to a student with special needs, support to a teacher, support to the curriculum and programme and school support. Supporting a student with special needs would mean encouraging his participation in social and educational processes at school. Allowing him to become as independent as possible in learning as possible and to achieve the best possible achievements. By following the work of assistants in other countries, I can conclude that the assistants in the follow-up are involved in direct work for the student, but not instead of students. Assistent helping a student with special needs in individual work also helps the whole group. The assistant in the follow-up shall cooperate closely with the teacher if it is a class course or with more teachers if it is a case-by-case follow-up. He directly participates with a teacher in the creation of a curriculum, individually for each individual student with special educational needs. We already have two to five special-needed students in primary schools in regular departments. The inclusion of assistants in primary school curricula would contribute to better social integration, more successful school success, changed attitudes of other students, acceptance of diversity and emotional security of individuals and groups. counterpart Hajdukovic spoke of positive examples of child integration, and I can confirm that. My former students Draško, Goran, Erik, Ivan, Peter, were included, integrated in regular schooling, and today they are adults who, with great effort and persuasion of themselves, their parents and teachers, have become equal members of the community, who today instill in their specific abilities, rejoice, make them happy and rejoice. I wonder if they had assistants still in class they could certainly have achieved much more, much easier and much more painlessly. Children with disabilities are not enough to remove construction barriers, but not only children with disabilities but all disabled or disabled persons, they need to be removed from social, emotional and psychological barriers. If we include assistants in the class, we're sure we'll help our children. Let's give them a chance and provide them with a condition to live a normal life. And I thank you, Your Honor, for everything you do and for much, much success with all our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81971	Thank you, too, dear colleague. The esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81972	And here I had to answer, because less than 10 minutes ago, that's exactly what I was talking about. So, about the fact that it's not good and it's not desirable, and I think the D.A. might say something about it. That people with disabilities are called persons with special needs because their needs for air, for freedom, for food, for employment, for education are absolutely the same, and I believe that, and here again, you will not take my remark in any way as malicious, but as a means to insist that precisely because of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as a basic document that we must implement in laws, to level that practice and to always move forward in the implementation of the Constitution and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81973	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Ada Damianac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81974	I'd like to thank my colleague Kosor. It was absolutely not my intention here to express itself, but simply a lapus in writing and preparation. And after all these speeches that were said today, I just had it left like this. I accept exactly what you're saying, absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81975	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Damianac, I followed your debate closely, and you said you wouldn't be touching these issues as far as local self-government units were concerned, and they all pointed to certain difficulties, of course, the desire to fix the situation in that part. But you're indirect, you've touched a very important issue that concerns the very unit of local self-government very important and I think it's important. So children with developmental difficulties mostly in preschool education. Let's all say in our business we worry about how to create enough capacity for accommodation in preschool institutions. And now a lot of unit leaders are hurting their heads to figure it out. Of course, under these circumstances, it's undeniable that assistants, that assistants have everything you said, I don't have in that part of it, which I'm sure is good. And of course it's also our wish to frame all the children and we succeed, but they are, to succeed as much as we can. But, of course, children with developmental difficulties, so we have to respect the number as much as it can be, as much as it can be capacitated in that part, and a child with developmental difficulties, I think 4, in level 4 therefore, demands. And in that part, we face big problems. With the best will, with the best desire above all to build and need capacities, and now in this time with the accommodation of children and mostly children with developmental difficulties that require these special standards that you spoke of both assistants and everything else. And then we find it difficult to frame both the inspections, and the controls and potential risks of punishment from the director to the local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81977	Thank you very much. You had a replica? ... You have an answer, so pick up when the replica lasts, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81978	Thank you. Surely it is within the authority of the local self-government unit, so it is certainly in the department where a disabled child is located that the number of other children is reduced because this child needs to be paid far more attention and hard work. When assistants are both in preschool and in schools, then they will be able to do normal work. But here I'm going to give you a proposal, since no local self-government unit has the resources, no money to open new capacities, new kindergartens, use my example, we've singled out a donation budget, a one-time donation to the person who's going to open a private kindergarten, and that way, for the purchase of equipment, and that way we've increased our capacities so here's one example of how it can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81979	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion and replication and reply to the replica. I don't know if the esteemed attorney for disabled people is going to say anything? Yes, it will, but here I will be involved in the way I propose to the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities that the next report for the Croatian Assembly addresses the Ombudsman's report on the social community's relations, either locally, with persons with disabilities because it is more appropriate both to the content and the debates than to discuss the work of the Ombudsman. Here you go, esteemed attorney, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81980	Dear President of the Parliament, I thank you for your recommendation, and we will try to respect it. I'd say first, maybe I wouldn't really go to what you've put out together right now, but I'm sure I'll refer to it, but I'd like to say that recently I've organized one here, which was Mrs. twilight and Mrs. Sobol and the President of the Parliament present in cooperation with the American Embassy, that day was actually an examination of children with difficulties in secondary education, secondary vocational education. It was organized this year on the 14th in the Center for Education and Education of Dubrava, and I actually took advantage of the opportunity of being a lawyer and what can affect the way these children have the opportunity to come to the Assembly and see how the Parliament works, but at the same time also to hold a performance that they have held and I invite all those who can in their cities, in their educational institutions, wherever they can actually use a young group called groups of different damages that actually show through their 20-minute performance what it is that tortures people with disabilities and how it is to live in the skin of a person with some kind of damage, i.e. resulting disability and how it is to live in Croatia. Unfortunately, it wasn't much of you, it was Monday afternoon, I couldn't organise it differently because it depended, because they came from different parts of Croatia, but it was really nice, they felt comfortable, one of them a whole new experience and I actually invite you to use such opportunities, to educate your associates, perhaps extra yourself, but also the environment and all those who should hear how and how people with disabilities live in Croatia. As for this debate today, I am pleased that we have initiated such debates between the heads of the city authorities because I think it is very important and also in this place to hear from you, but I believe you also have your own associations of cities or mayors or mayors and I believe that you can also use... one of the sessions and deal with issues of persons with disabilities, and not just your own questions, your own under quotes because people with disabilities are part of your environments and take advantage of these opportunities and thus use these recommendations that Mr. from the city of Lepoglava, here representative, stressed. In order to improve them better, of course suggest everything that is to the benefit of people with disabilities the office will of course support and further strengthen your recommendations. Since the talk here is now ultimately about services and education, I would like to say, in fact, that not every child needs an assistant in the follow-up. This should be viewed according to individual needs, and different forms of support needed by each child should be seen, but what it needs. No damage is the same and no child in any of the damages is the same, so neither the adult nor the support assessment, regardless of whether we are talking about education, education, health situation or tomorrow's employment and work, everywhere should be seen individually, evaluated, and in fact it is very important that this Law on the unique body of art and tomorrow that body of art that must assess all that will be necessary for that person to be included in different systems, i.e. to ensure that the system is guaranteed through different rights. In that part, I would still hope and say that regarding education, we today have a situation where education does not follow the needs of the labour market. So the part that we're talking about professional staff means what we're talking about for early intervention services, we have many environments where there are no employees, no logos, no working therapists, no profiles that we know that in the city of Zagreb are schooled and we know there are because they're out of those high schools, higher schools, colleges and so forth, and when we ask why you don't have, there's no professional staff. So where did that professional piece go? In the city of Zagreb we see that they are working, that they are employed in places that are not even from their staff, so their profile for which they have finished schools but working therapists work as nurses from what they ended up in high school, logos work in other places, rehabilitators not to talk, etc. So that's a whole series of problems that actually binds education, and then support. And what's worse, the more often we get asked, that we have physiotherapists who aren't trained enough to work with children with difficulties, means that we have situations that can't all pay for themselves... or some kind of... that cost 10, 14, 15 thousand kuna and that if they don't pay for the company that that person does, that person can't pay for it during school, or later if someone doesn't co-finance it. And then we get the situation that parents are unhappy and say that their child is not rehabilitated enough during or during teens or early childhoods. Therefore, this education is also related to the professional staff, and especially the part where we talk about people with disabilities because yesterday I gave a warning to HINA again, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has appointed the Committee for the making of a single list of health contraindications. So they say why people with deafness or deafness or difficulty in speaking according to the document could not do almost any work, no economists, no photographers, no designers could be sweets. I mean, by which a person with hearing impairment, and to know that today we have teachers, we have doctors, dentists, we have various professions that are not questionable kinesiologists, the lady works in Suvagu professor kinesiology, etc. So the question is, how long do we have to say that time has passed, and that time has passed so that people with disabilities can't work and deal with professions like everyone else, but, of course, according to their abilities and abilities. But it can't be evaluated just by doctors, we're going back to the medical model. The convention was adopted and entered into force in 2008 and since then we have been constantly speaking to you, and we've shared with the Assembly MPs here two years ago almost what is the convention. Associations, alliances, roof organizations are constantly talking about the convention, we mention it, I call on people to read if they don't understand some of the questions but not to do this kind of situation and to do one such commission that today will close thousands of young people's opportunities for education and employment in the open labour market, and then because of all this and their families. As regards health services in Croatia, equal availability must be ensured at all levels. We cannot expect and experience today that people due to the treatment of wounds come to Zagreb instead of staying in their midst and that their hospitals are taking over and that they come practically to die because they have decubitus. In the 21st century, it's just something terrible. And so you should simply do an analysis where you do what you do and make education and support because if someone goes to treat urological problems, you can't get a wound to the buttocks. I mean, that's a terrible thing. Besides, I'm direct because otherwise I don't know how to talk anymore because I'm really bitter already. Support to associations is necessary because I say they have taken over, work, work, some of them have not been provided with various three-year programmes through the National Foundation, through the ministries. How it's going to work, time will show but what we know is really many of them are shutting down. And as far as accessibility is concerned, I would like to say that we have a situation now on the island of Krk that pays for not carrying out the surveillance as you put it and what kind of crane it is that puts into the sea or whether it will be able to even ensure that those persons are moved to the sea. If local communities allocate so much funds for this, then that supervision should be carried out both during and after production. Well, it can't happen that you invest 100, 200, 500 thousand kuna, and that a person with disabilities tomorrow can't get into the sea or can't get into an elevator or I don't know the money spent without anyone controlling it at all. I mean, that surveillance is constantly lagging out. And what we say here we are now in the preparation of the report in the shadow, the State report on the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was 2011, we are now making a report in the shadow because next year 2015 questions from the Geneva Committee on the Republic of Croatia will come up and there will be a debate on our state report. When you ask how we keep saying this inaccessiblely, inaccessiblely, and the state says or the ministry says so by inspection we see that there are no irregularities at all. It's like we're talking and it's like we're not living it and we're telling some lies all the time. So there's a big gap between what's really in the living room and what's really going on. And here's what I'd like to say is that today is the day that I gave my oath in this space six years ago as First Advocate and Appointing then I got the ability to hear their voice in society and know who's on their side and then when the various institutions are against them because they have no money, no knowledge or know how to talk to them. They continue to evaluate their shortcomings and evaluate what they cannot, and they forget that human beings should have the same human rights as others. We are constantly talking about the problems of citizens whose economic power is so small that the issues concerning their lives can never be imposed as a topic for society to deal with. During the period ahead of us we wish to achieve many of the initiatives that I expect to support and cooperate and responsibility of all institutions, public and persons with disabilities, only with whom this office can improve their daily life. So I invite all of you to read those parts of the report, not only of this, but also of the former who is not only concerned by what we talked about today, because today we have only touched some of the topics and some of the laws, and we know that the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, etc. The Sign Language Act will soon come also in the procedure etc. to consider and adopt recommendations and good solutions and not to start with any change of government but to adopt what is good and to develop it well, and to try to eliminate what is good as soon as possible. And I'd like to make one last appeal to say about the population of flooded areas. In Slavonia, however, there are people who are now staying and who question when they will return to their homes. Some of them lived in equipped and customized spaces, so not only in terms of orthopaedic aids and similar but also in low ones, it means that they can easily enter houses, that they can have equipped electric motor beds and things like that, and in that part I expect your support and get involved. And I have to say that there is only one association in Gunja called the Star that implements a three-year programme of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth related to a half-day stay where users are young and children with disabilities, perform other services, assistants and so on. And unfortunately, their space was completely flooded because it was in a community building. And they were brand-new equipped spaces only started working in 2007. So I invite you to this opportunity if you know someone who can in any way help to help that association to return to office as soon as possible to the benefit of those for whom it is in that place. Here, thank you very much, once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81981	Thank you, too. We've got replicas on your exhibit, final. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81982	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, actually, Madam Attorney-General in my replica, I just wanted to add maybe more as information to the teaching event that you mentioned which one of us had the opportunity to see, so a play of children with development difficulties down here at the Centre Hall. We are also personally sorry that an extremely small number of MPs and deputies responded. However, I would like to say that, after seeing that play, the idea was actually born. And I have to say that I think we've made contacts and there's an idea, and I believe that she will be supported by the Presidency of the Parliament that these children in the fall session of the Parliament come to this building but not that they invite MPs to watch them but that they come to this hall. Because it's very easy to adapt, they don't need a lot of space, this space and that play being performed in this hall, and I believe, I'm sure it really deserves as many MPs and advocates as possible to see that play. Here's what I know is that the president of the Parliament has been nosing his head, but I think that to do it, it just takes a little bit of good faith to take a half-assed break in the course of a regular session, that's quite enough for that show to be seen. Here's the thing, of course, all the support for you as a defense attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81983	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, congratulations on our 6th anniversary. And I'm sure in those six years, a lot has been done for people with disabilities. I would say that in your final presentation of things, you only confirmed that in Croatia there is one religious concern for people with disabilities. And that it is definitely necessary systematically to solve the problems of people with disabilities. And that's where I beg you, don't just suggest, insist on it. You have the greatest power there is. As long as it doesn't work out, we'll still have discriminatory things, we'll have different approaches, we'll have different local skills. And when we talk about local environments, we have to say that here, so we're talking because that's where life is going on. There are people, there they live, there they live. And it simply has to stop happening that everyone manages in their own way but that the system determines what, how, by which means and obligations anyone needs to deal with, make every person with disabilities have the same conditions of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81985	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81986	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. Well, I'm also invited by your finding that on this very day, it's six years of your election and your successful work at the head of the office. And here's some little personal, some little personal memory, I'm then Deputy Prime Minister, and as Minister, you've just proposed, you've been my choice, and I'm glad it was accepted. I have to say today because I think it's important to repeat it with a lot of skepticism both in the public and in the political circles of skepticism, I can speak openly, because it was known that you are a person with severe disability. And there was a skepticism in the sense that a person who had to deal with prejudices and obstacles every day could successfully do the job. And you proved it. And I think your choice was not only important and good for people with disabilities and promoting the rights of people with disabilities but generally for promoting fundamental human rights. It was an important event to promote the rights of every man. I thank you and wish you a lot of success in your work and to be equally critical and just but that the more wherever you can present these individual examples of real life. I think that's the kind of example a lot of people still come to their senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81987	With this being your proposal and the election of the Croatian Parliament and without skepticism. Thank you very much. Thank you, too, Your Honor's Attorney General. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when they get the terms. We're gonna stop with the plenary session for a week, that doesn't mean that Parliamentarians have no obligation, there's material you know already a lot in the benches. I therefore announce that we will begin the plenary session on 2 July with: (a) The Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. b) Proposal for a Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2013. Report by the State Audit Office on the audit carried out of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. We agreed that we would conduct this debate, as it is said, integratedly, together, unitedly, that representatives on behalf of the clubs would be able to speak for 20 minutes on these topics. That's about the notice. Congratulations on the holiday of Teelova tomorrow and the holidays that will be within the plenary session of the Parliament, it is the Day of Resurrection and another we have a holiday at that time, I think it's Statehood Day. ... /The noise in the hall./... What? Well, no, no, I'm waiting for a reaction as you do. Okay. ... /The noise in the hall./... All right, all right. It's all right. A small select group, but reacts well. Not bad. I want a nice weekend, good luck. Session interrupted at 14.22 p.m. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 109 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81990	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81991	Thank you very much. Minister Vedran Sailor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81992	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-18-0.u81993	Thank you very much. I congratulate the ministers on the election and the confidence shown. I want you to do your duty in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the satisfaction of our representatives and for our cooperation to be high-level. Once again, congratulations. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs welcome to the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Before we start working on the established order of the agenda, I would like to ask that we give one oath to the MPs before we move to work. The oath shall be given in a way that the President or the President shall read the text of the oath, and thereafter, the representative, when called, shall rise and pronounce my oath. A colleague, a new colleague in the Croatian Parliament, is Vesna Sabalić. I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Vesna Sabolic.
