ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u89408	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Since the HDZ Club asked for a break when voting on budget rebalancing to adopt a conclusion on the real situation in Croatian health, since the conclusion was not adopted by me on behalf of the HDZ Club so that, before the debate on the 2015 budget, they would present on behalf of the club what is the situation in Croatian health care, and perhaps until then, fill the hall with the Kukuriku coalition so as not to embarrass the prime minister in front of the half-empty hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u89409	Okay. In accordance with the practice of the Croatian Parliament, we will give a break. We'll give the apartment... No, it's 10 minutes of business, so we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At 9.45. ... What, what? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sure it's a colleague of Cain's. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Dear colleagues, the time has elapsed for a break sought by the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament and I ask the representative of the HDZ club, the respected representative Darko Milinovic, to present the problem presented by the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u89411	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with your associates, ladies and gentlemen. We are today in front of a key document, the main political document that this House brings over the year. By means of a document that means or indicators that will be in the Republic of Croatia next year, whether there will be a pension, whether there will be a salary, whether there will be a reduction in the rights of those defenders of the 100-percent disabilityes of the Homeland War that are still in front of the ministry today. And we are witnessing that for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, by the will of the majority, so he took the right, here is Mr. President of the Parliament that you, like all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, know the right, true state in the health system of the Republic of Croatia. I'd beg to turn on my time if I knew. So why are we saying that? Because exactly the state of the health system, i.e. the losses in the health system, debts in the health system, are, we cannot be kidnapped by the impression deliberately concealing that the deficit of the Republic of Croatia is deliberately being faked. For what reason? I don't know, 15.2 billion kuna. Now look, that's what's threatening us next year. That we have the right state, and most have refused that the Croatian Parliament has the right state not only long in the health system but also projections of the budget or presentation of the 2015 Budget, but thus send false messages, not to say false messages. Once again, we want in a way that is not worthy of one country that is a member of the EU to cheat on the European Commission. I hope that this data, that this debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, will also reach the President of the European Commission, Juncker, who does not know the true state of the deficit of the Republic of Croatia, because the data is deliberately hidden. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we will also activate our MEPs in the European Parliament in order to introduce the European Commission to the real state of affairs. What we are, or the data we have, is alarming. For example, for 2012 the total obligations of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance were incredible, watch this, 5 billion and 660 million kuna, and reached a debt of a billion and 300 million kuna. Hospitals, according to the government document of the Republic of Croatia, hospitals with a total obligation of 5 billion and 55 million kuna, and some 2 billion kuna are due. So, we were deliberately not given that information by the majority in this House, beware of Croatian MPs, representatives of the Croatian Parliament are deliberately not given the data. So who could have them if they couldn't have representatives in the Croatian Parliament? To cover up the real deficit of the Republic of Croatia. So, the total obligations in the Croatian health system today are over, beware of this data, over 10 billion kuna, have come to a debt that no one knows. And that's why we wanted to have real data in front of the HDZ club so we could handle the actual deficit. Because we're in an excessive deficit procedure. We may still have a chance for the European Commission to help us not to see Croatia go bankrupt next year, for which will be both the prime minister and the finance minister or those who cover their commitments. So it's not enough to do your best, sometimes it's, of course, we have to do what's necessary. So, I'll remind you that in Iceland, the state's attorney accused the prime minister of not taking action out of his jurisdiction to prevent a financial collapse. Political responsibility is already being won in all elections taking place in the Republic of Croatia, but let's not let irresponsible behaviour bring Croatia's government into bankruptcy next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u89412	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues I keep repeating in situations like this that this is an institute introduced in the practice of the Croatian Parliament when clubs use to sort out a topic, when other participants who are interested in the topic and not even representatives can discuss it. I hope that the HDZ Club will submit a written request for the institutions in charge to be manifested about this. ... Okay, so it'll be obvious. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We can start with the work of a respected colleague and respected fellow MPs. I welcome the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of Finance. Today it is on the agenda - Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, with a proposal for projections for 2016 and 2017; 1.2. Proposals for financial plans of extra budget users for 2015, with a projection proposal for 2016 and 2017 for: A) Croatian Waters B) Croatian Roads C) Centre for restructuring and sale D) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund E) State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks F) Croatian Institute for Health Insurance 1.3. Proposal for a State budget and financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2015, with a projection proposal for 2016 and 2017 (consolidated; 1.4). Explanation of the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the draft financial plans of extra budget users for 2015, with a proposal for projections for 2016 and 2017 I see my hand in the air. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93283	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. The state budget for 2015 will mark the government's additional efforts to ensure the stability of public finances in the medium and long term. Debt is not a solution and therefore significant efforts have been made to stabilise budget expenditure and reduce deficits. The total budget deficit will be 12.5 billion kuna or 3.8% of GDP. And only the cost of interest on debts is 10.7 billion kuna, which shows the burden of former uncontrollable borrowing. So, for us, almost the entire deficit goes to interest. Although next year we plan to save on expenditures, salaries, pensions, social benefits and benefits for the most vulnerable citizens have not been reduced and will not be. There is no reduction in any social care rights, and the funds for the payment of parental benefits are even slightly increased. One of the few ministries that will have more funding in 2015 is the Defence Ministry. The increase in the budget for defenders proves our Government's constant concern for the Croatian defenders to whom it has been acquired, I would say both earned and earned rights are not and will not be questioned. In order to achieve a reduction in total public spending and budget expenditure, we began to carry out a depth analysis of expenditure. We aim to establish possible savings in the budget in the coming years and thus further increase the efficiency of spending citizens' money. Transparency of the state budget is important so that expenditure can be controlled. The central salary account provided a clear overview of the cost of salaries. And as of next year, you will see clearly the income of users who have not been shown in the budget so far, these are universities, national parks and health institutions. For 2015, we planned total revenue of HRK 106.4 billion. Budget revenue is based on the expected mild recovery of economic activity and real GDP growth of 0.5%. The most important contribution to growth is expected from a further increase in exports that is already clearly trending, private sector investment and personal consumption. Adjustments on the revenue side of the budget include tax changes, but tax changes are planned so as not to burden the most vulnerable layers of citizens. By increasing taxation, we will only cover incomes that are not of an existential need, such as income from interest on savings that you have all over Europe. By changing tax policy first and foremost, we try to reduce the tax burden of labour and small entrepreneurship. From January 1st, a new Income Tax Act has entered into force, which should provide a higher salary for nearly a million of our people. By increasing personal deductions from 2 200 to 2 600 kuna and for pensioners from 3 400 to 3 800 kuna and by changing tax classes, we will protect taxpayers with minimum incomes and also increase the income available to a significant number of citizens. Also important is tax innovation in the VAT system, for all craftsmen and entrepreneurs with deliveries up to 3 million kuna per year, we give the opportunity to calculate VAT according to the paid realisation, something to be talked about and what has been sought for years. About 120,000 entrepreneurs will be able to choose their own way of calculating VAT. With tax changes, we want not only to relieve work and little entrepreneurship but also to launch economic activity in this way. An important choice of economic growth in 2015 will be the EU funds. With the budget, we plan to provide 7.1 billion kuna from European funds to finance development projects. Most of the planned investments from EU funds relate to agriculture, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and transport and infrastructure. Just some of the projects that will certainly co-finance money from European funds. Airport Dubrovnik, water supply systems Osijek, Vukovar, Čakovci and Poreč, bridge Island of Čiovo-kopno and second track of the long village-Križevci. We continue with active employment measures that have produced good results this year, and we will use money from European funds and a total of more than one billion kuna is foreseen for these measures. Government measures must have helped and a significant decline in unemployment at the international level. Today, the unemployed are almost 40,000 less than last year in the same period. The new budget reduces the cost of funding tax revenue development projects in almost all portfolios and increases support from European funds. We want to spend less taxpayers' money and more money from European funds because we will best justify and use EU membership. And only such a policy can ensure long-term tax cuts. The 2015 budget introduces fairer relations between local self-government units. The new system of assisted areas is based on development and will ensure better spending of state money in favour of less developed ones. But that change will also go well with compensatory measures. By changing the distribution of income tax and real estate tax, we will compensate part of the lost income to local budgets. All savings tax revenues will return to support local self-government units in assisted areas. The aim of all reforms implemented by the government is a system that will be more rational and efficient. In 2015, we will also implement a reform of the judicial system that has already been adopted. This will mean speeding up court proceedings already next year, but also further savings in the judicial system, which is one of the most important services that citizens expect quality and speedy justice from. The government has not even forgotten the restoration of the flood-stricken County compound. Everything that could not be restored this year continues to be renewed in 2015. The state provided 161 million kuna in the budget plus funds for the legalisation of illegal construction so that the entire County facility would be restored during the next year. The 2015 budget takes care that state spending will make a small contribution to economic growth because we need to stabilise expenditure and slow down borrowing, take care of the economic circumstances in our environment that we depend heavily on. Growth projections are rational and therefore it can be said that the budget is realistic, but also feasible, not as always said developed and social because it means complete. He's a little bit of one and a little bit of the other, but he needs to be realistic. And finally, when it comes to spending public money, tax money, cut, one example I saw today in front of my eyes, in front of my house. We were partially criticized this year and rightfully because of the purchase of official cars, it was necessary to replace the old cars that had been spent, which had to change, new cars, that decision had been made much earlier, the one that should have started to be realized, the public reacted to it, and maybe we were wrong to take care of it earlier, but it was one operation that had to be done. Could it have been cheaper, more rational? It probably is. Why am I saying that? There are objections from part of the local self-government unit that they're taking away some income, that they won't be able to manage, that they won't be able to..., that they'll collect kindergartens, they're all standard political vocabularys. We could, for example, be tempted to be pressured by the European Commission, that because of the pressure and politics of large, some large and rich European countries, we have to do what we would not do, so we can justify some savings of reductions, but it does not occur to me to do it. That's not what we do. However, this morning I leave the apartment in the city center and see machines, asphalt machines of the private company Zagreb road and wonder what they are doing and tell me, rebuilding asphalt in the street. So it's... a street in Zagreb. That asphalt is impeccable, there's no need to do that. Well, you see, if someone doesn't convince me of another, it's a classic example of a waste, a waste of money. A question in whose interest, before the end of the financial year, citizens who pay a 18% tax just to spend their money. At the same time as it takes or does not need to increase kindergarten prices, they will say there is no money. Don't do that. If something works on that street, it's asphalt. It's impeccable. There are as many examples in Croatia as you like, this one I literally got in front of the staircase of my building this morning and while someone from the city of Zagreb, the city I live in, the town where I pay a 18% cut, explains why it is thrown at such things, there may be some kind of deep reason, maybe some archaeological find in the process. That goes for every city, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know how many such examples there are in Croatia. I'm not accusing anyone of it personally. I'm not saying it's corruption, I don't know, it's irresponsible. Don't do that, I'm not asking as a citizen, I don't need that. Put it in social security. Reduce kindergarten prices, don't iron now in the last month of the year just to spend the funds, hundreds of millions of kunas to be justified. That's not how it's done, that's not how cities are run, and that's not how we're gonna run the country. This is what I wanted to say because this is what I experienced this morning. Go and take a look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93284	Thank you, too. Part two of the planned time, respected Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will also briefly say the main essences of the 2015 budget. As pointed out earlier, it started with real macroeconomic projections, meaning GDP growth of 0.5%, if we see that the European Commission proposed for Croatia for 2015 real GDP growth of 0.2%, we see that the Croatian Governments, or the European Commission, are almost in line. Also, when we talk about 2016 projections, the government projected a growth of 1.3%, the European Commission 1.1%) and in 2017 is a growth projection of 1.5%. Also, inflation is expected in 2015, i.e. the average growth in the consumer price index of 1.4% and 2016. 1.9%. What is certainly characteristic of the 2015 budget is that both the revenues and expenditure of the state budget for 2015 are not comparable to the data for 2014 and the previous years due to the change in the principle of comprehensiveness of all categories entered into the budget. The first reason is that own dedicated incomes and expenditures are included, as well as expenditures and expenditures that are settled from the same subsistence. As we know for many years, the Budget Act has defined that the own and dedicated revenues and receipts of budget beneficiaries are part of the state budget, however, every year, the Law on the implementation of the state budget until this year, in previous years it was prescribed that for certain budget users such as users in science, higher education, health institutions, national parks and nature parks that they are exempt from recording certain own and dedicated revenues. And then every year, in fact, we had the opinion of the State Audit Office, the conditional opinion of the State Audit Office, that this should be changed, that these own and dedicated revenues should be recorded through the central budget. It is also... and according to the new ESA methodology, ESA 2010, a methodology of EU public finances statistics which also require the comprehensiveness of reporting through the budget. Since there has been a lot of debate in the public on whether such own revenues are being taken, here I am responsible for saying that no one is taking their own income, that their own revenues and the dedicated revenues of the university, that they are higher education institutions that they are theirs, that they are the revenues of the state budget users, meaning they are not the revenues of the state budget, but their revenues, and that in this case they are recorded and passed through the central budget. Moreover, in 2013, this High House adopted amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act where a decision was made to bring the Croatian Health Insurance Institute out of the State Treasury system from 01 January 2015, so that, with that decision, that is, a legal solution where the HZZO becomes an extra-profit user, this budget has to be harmonised, which means that revenue from the state budget is excluded from contributions to health insurance, revenue from participation, supplementary health insurance, and other income from HZZO becomes income from HZZO as an extra-profit user. The State budget will also show a transfer towards HZZO of €2.4 billion in accordance with Article 72. The mandatory health insurance law, so that the total budget of HZZO will be around 22 billion kuna. It is also a technical moment but certainly very important that a special CNB account will be opened for the HNB, with regard to the liquidity of HVZ and the central budget in that part should not be a major problem. Also, as regards the revenues of the state budget most important, there were plenty of speeches that were unrealistic, I will tell you just a few examples that we made sure that incomes were as real as possible and that no future significant economic developments were part of. The example of VAT, we planned the VAT as the most significant source of state budget revenue at the level of €41.5 billion, means it's about 700 to 800 million more than expected in the rebalancing this year. So we're going to make that 40.6 billion kuna this year. and only one small part is expected through a certain increase in personal consumption, as well as further positive effects of preventing tax evasion. You know that many European countries and that we have made a decision to form a special tax evasion prevention office is unfortunately Croatia has become vulnerable by entering the single European market, especially when we talk about VAT and numerous circular fraud, it is not immune to Europe either. Since we are on the common market and now the VAT is more functioning according to the accounting principle, not with imports where you first had to pay it immediately, and later looking for a certain return and for the EU to strongly fight VAT evasion. Certain estimates by the European VAT Commission say that over hundreds of billions of euros are lost annually in VAT and that this is about 2% of the EU's GDP to lose that part of VAT in these circular frauds. We have been participating here, forming a special office, working with colleagues from the EU on this so that in that part we have participated a small part of the effect on VAT, which means that VAT is considered to be real and that it will be the most significant category of budget filling and achievement. Certain categories of change and income tax and income tax are slightly more significant, it has been increased solely because of the gross principle of showing the return of local self-government units in assisted areas. Since this has now worked on the net principle, all these revenues have been diminished on that item. We now have on the gross principle of the revenue shown, but on the other hand, we show expenditure, or expenditure, which helps municipalities and cities in assisted areas. The gross principle will also increase transparency and see how much money is returned to the assisted areas. The amendments to the Tax on Happiness Act also increase some 300 million kuna, as this House of the High has also brought taxes on all types of profits. However, what is the main characteristic of the revenue side of the budget and does not directly affect the deficit are aid. They are planned for 7.3 billion kuna in this budget for 2015. It is the part where a lot of the public also whether the Croatian administration, I am talking not only about the Ministry of Regional Development but about all the ministries whether we will succeed in withdrawing all the 7.3 billion kuna we need and we must and the reason why we have entered the EU. If we know that we are 7.3 billion kuna, 4 billion kunas refer to these periods from 2007 to 2013 where we have already agreed jobs. The competitions have been completed so that already more than half that I do not say very certain means that they will withdraw and that this part of the activity will be seen in 2015. One simple example of showing the impact of EU funds on the Croatian budget and which was the main idea of leadership when the budget was drawn up for 2015 to reduce expenditures financed from taxes from general taxes, and to increase the items or that all ministers have the opportunity to increase their limits compared to the previous year if the EU funds are used more actively. I often mention the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, so the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture in 2015 will amount to 6.3 billion kuna, while the budget for 2014 amounted to 4.7 billion kuna, which means that by 1.6 billion kuna, it is higher in 2015 than in 2014. and they took part in the participation in this part of the deficit with 150 million kunas of smaller budgets on expenditures but those financed from the taxes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. so that the entire programmes not only of the Ministry of Agriculture but of all ministries are drawn up in this way and the only way that the budget can look in the future in 2016, 2017 and other years that we are increasingly reducing the component that we finance from VAT taxes from this burden of Croatian citizens and that we are more funded by EU funds is the only way that we can close the deficits that are still high and only in such a way that we can manage our public debt. As far as I'm going to tell you another example at the Ministry of Labour, they've given about 500 million kuna in tax-funded sources this year, about half a billion kuna is given for an active employment policy. They have provided additional 500 million kunas through the EU for an active employment policy, which means that if programmes such as the Government proposed are implemented very ambitiously that we will have a billion kuna in 2015 for an active employment policy and will certainly have a significant impact on the reduction of unemployment. Also, certain small and medium-sized entrepreneurship ministries add to 700 million kuna, 731 million kunas are generated from EU funds, which means a strong incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises but we have always been guided by logic means that we reduce in that part, to replace, to substitute expenditures that we can replace and use EU funds on the other hand. We will also replace around 120 million kunas with funding now let's say the administrations that work on EU projects, which are now being financed from taxes, we will replace them with EU funds and that is over 120 million kuna. So even though we are in the second year of the excessive deficit procedure and this is a national accounting methodology where it is actually a deficit of 12.5 billion kuna, 3.8% think that this is a significant effort, especially because we have reduced the tax-funded expenditures and that they affect the deficit of their own, dedicated and EU funds, in fact, as much as we withdraw them, they do not affect the deficit. And it's actually much more realistic to put this part of the budget, and that's what he's going to look like, I believe in the future that more will be financed from other sources and less that certain expenditures will be financed from general taxes. Because it is one way to reduce deficits and not just because of the European Commission but to make this huge cost of interest as little as possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93286	Thank you, too, dear Minister of Finance. Now we're going to the replicas. Dear Vice President of the House, Zeljko Reiner, replica to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93287	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. This draft budget is completely unrealistic and I dare say it's actually unserious. That it is best to say that, in light of the country's most important political document, which determines the government's vision and development directions of 10 minutes, the prime minister has devoted almost one-third of the asphalting of his street. This is a one-time budget. Namely, he has only two purposes. One purpose is to slow down the European Commission a little bit and try to get her eyes dirty and convince Croatia that everything will work well and that it will all work out. And the second reason is that new loans can then be raised on the basis of it, which will make Croatia more in debt and thus allow the government to survive until the next elections. That the budget is not realistic is best said to say that the estimated deficit of 12.5 billion and will actually end up at least 18 billion deficits because revenues are overrated by at least 2 billion and expenditure is underrated by at least 3 billion. There's a series of arguments for that. Here we were talking about health care, a health care that is constantly missing 2 billion a year, and now without any structural reforms, it claims to be saved, and it's shrinking by one billion. Although the economic stagnation is actually predicted, so the minimum increase in GDP per budget is only 0.5%, the European Commission 0.2%, so actually stagnation. VAT revenues are projected to grow above 800 million and revenue for profit is expected to exceed 173 million more, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93288	Thank you very much. Replica response, Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93289	Your Honor, you must patent what stagnation means. If growth is higher than 0%, it's not stagnation, it's a small growth. And as for your warm desires and your application to the European Commission, it goes to your soul. What can I tell you? I mean this all I've heard from you and your predecessor, formerly successful health minister to me as a Croatian citizen, it bothers me. So this kind of constant attempt to denunciate, to report someone to the European Commission in this case, that's wrong. I'm just hoping that the citizens are listening to this and they're drawing a conclusion from this. It's the only weapon we have right now. I was relatively short just to give you more space, to hear what you have to say on the subject, to listen to you and to let the citizens hear you so that they can figure out whose intentions and who has the knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93290	Thank you very much. Another replica, respected representative Ivan Shuker, also prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93291	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I have no intention of reporting you to anyone but I intend to give you the facts of what you said. 25% of the interest you have been talking about refers to 3 years of your term of office of up to 24 years of the Republic of Croatia. And that's a fact. In the State Budget Act that you signed as Prime Minister. The second thing, defenders, look, you've reduced 23 million kuna to them in budget rebalancing and look at what the budget says on page 33 of the special part of the budget so you wouldn't be able to say that someone is making something up for you as a public institution, the memorial center of the Homeland War Vukovar in 2015. Or at the social aid position, compensation to war victims' participants is cut by 23 million kuna. That's the Department of Defense. And as for the units of local self-government, on page 33 of the special part of the budget at the Ministry of Finance you have decentralised functions that were a billion 270 million, next year are projected by a billion and 510 million and you have taken from that position 900 million kuna by amending the law on the financing of local self-government units and you return 240. Well, there's still a fat, fat minus. So just the things you said unfortunately don't stand. And I repeat, I have no intention of reporting you because those of you who think you should possibly be reported by someone far more aware of public finances than you think they do. And unfortunately, what they know will be paid through borrowing next year because when you look at what is formed as an interest rate, your risk factor is greatest and because of this Croatia has an extremely high risk factor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93292	Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93293	Well, now it's really hard to understand what your party's position is, yours, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Milinovic, everyone talks their way. One would report, you wouldn't. I'm glad to hear it from you. All this stuff you've listed is dubious, please, dubiously. But what bothers me the most again, the thing that bothers me the most is that after all we've been through the past weeks and days, after the shame some have been trying to do in Vukovar and failed, you're retrieving the defense budget, you're misinterpreting it here and you want to send a message that we're dealing with the defense population. Well, that's really human and politically inappropriate. Don't do that. So this government, and I'm going to do it 100 times, once again, I call on people who are still there in front of the ministry to return home to their families. So everything we do, we do in good faith, and if someone's trying to throw in a fight, hate and division, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93294	Thank you very much. The third replica, Josip Djakic, for the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93295	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, on the budget for Croatian defenders, I will tell you the truth about what has been done and how it has been done. So in two budget rebalances, you've reduced $38.6 million. In the first, 15.6 million kuna was reduced and 23 million in the second. So it's less in the 2015 budget than it was in 2014 7.9 million and that's the truth you can't escape from. I don't know why your associates, ministers, or those who advise you are misinformed. You created a fiction to get us something. We're not getting anything, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. We get less in the housing position, there were 381 million kuna, now 215 million kuna, and legal regulations have increased the number of users on the waiting list from 11 600 to 13 800. When are we going to solve them and how are we going to solve them? There is a solution, Mr. Prime Minister, and it needs to be used. Thousands of apartments are for sale in Croatia, a contract has to be concluded with business banks, the difference will be paid by disabled people and you will solve the problem, you will rush the construction operation and something will be done in Croatia. In another place where it has fallen too, and it is important to hire Croatian defenders. So the employment of Croatian defenders is insignificant but is reduced, from 16 million kuna to 15 and 650. Small but reduced, and the number of users from 26,000 increased to 36,000. And that's what we want to say clearly, don't fictitiously create that you're giving something when it's really shown in the budget that there's less.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93296	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93297	I thank you for the information you provided. It is worth hearing from the public that the number of those who have the right to housing, so by decision of the state through the Croatian law passed by this House, which creates a commitment, has increased by 2,000 people. That's what you said. I'm so glad I didn't say that. I didn't care about it in my speech in the Parliament, but that means the state will give it away. There's so much about who's taking care of it. And I consider your intervention a despair, a desperate attempt. Even if what you're saying is true, isn't it embarrassing for you to grab on to five, six, seven million kunas? Even if it were true, and it's not true, and you're misreading it, but you said one very important thing, so our government, our Parliament, you passed a law that extends the rights and it's now irrevocable. So 2,000 people are qualified more to get apartments and they'll get them. They'll get it before someone else knows for sure, 'cause the state cares about it. That's the effect of your speech, you warned the Croatian public about it, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93298	The fourth replica, Honored Representative Dujomir Marasovic, please welcome the prime minister as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93299	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I won't report you either because there's just no need. There are no more questions in Croatia that top state officials have not reported to the Hague court, no matter what has not been reported in Croatia, everything has been reported. And what we're talking about now is the American, English, German and other embassies are simply making analysts and... all the presidents of the European Commission, we have no one to report. I wanted to give you a serious warning, you said the budget was in charge of ensuring stability, I agree, that borrowing is not a solution, I agree, but that the deficit will be 12.5 billion there you are Mr. Prime Minister fat wrong. The Split hospital, according to its current budget, will receive 54.2 million in next year, and spends 70 million per month, means 16 million minus or deficit times 12, that is 190 million kuna per year, and since it is about 10% of the hospital system deficit, it is a billion to 2 billion kunas do not die from our health deficit. 2 billion kuna. That's what we all know here. So we don't need to lie to the European Union, why do we need to lie to ourselves? We had to give health care as much money as we have, and we have as much and given patients the rights as we can to cover with money. It's the biggest mistake of your government and correct it over this year if you can, otherwise we'll have to cheat next year that it'll be a deficit like this, and it won't be a little bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93300	The reply to the replica was respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93301	Of course, it is the task of the parliamentary opposition to criticise and question, but here and there to make some kind of proposal, and that these are not declarations, each year one, so some kind of legislative proposal. I've been listening to you, listening to your predecessors, listening to this House all these years, that is, these three years since I've been Prime Minister, I don't remember, and I've also checked the documentation that you've made constructive proposals for anything, and especially when it comes to money and public finances. So we're just saying that it's gonna be terrible, bad, that it's not gonna save anything, even though you're witnessing yourself that we, I don't know the other day we experienced in Prague that the Czechs congratulate us on our fiscalization system. It's not something that kicks you out of your shoes, it's our trouble we had to deal with. It's what this government has done, and it's recognized by those who have been fortunate to have a different developmental path than we have in the last 20 years, so now they're a little richer. I'd appreciate it if you and your club made any more specific suggestions. While I was in opposition for four years, I was president of the SDP Club, my colleagues and we produced dozens of legal proposals that were form, so while we were in opposition. That was our contribution. Of course, he's sometimes illusory because the government won't accept him. There's nothing from you. So now neither of you nor the former director of this KBC who was hoarding debts while he was in charge for years and years and you weren't to be heard back then. I didn't hear how to cut expenses. Is it possible that these expenditures are irrational? Is there perhaps a situation there like this case of paved road that should not be paved by anyone who decides. Is there a case of waste? That's what I've been waiting to hear from you guys for years. And I know you won't do it until the last day. Unfortunately, I'm experiencing it as unconstructive behavior. I'm sorry! Give us some suggestions, tell us what to do, we know. Let's hear it from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93302	Thank you very much. Fifth Replic, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93303	Mr. Prime Minister, when you were now told by the president of the SDP club, the HDZ prime minister also told you to suggest that you point your finger at what you can cut. You said it was government business, just reminding you. You're also paved, spending money on unnecessary things. Let's just say you said to point a finger at what? Let's just say your ministry is moving to luxury areas in the biggest crisis. But you've actually performed a populist show here that you've always handed to us for pulsism. You haven't talked about the most significant political document in particular, you haven't said anything at all. Where all those investments you promised for three years were lost along the way. You've been targeting for the fourth time, but you're targeting it looks wrong, you're missing the target. All the budgets we know so far have been failures. How do we believe now that this budget you're proposing for 2015 won't be a failure? You didn't withdraw money from the European funds, you just woke up in the fourth year. You haven't implemented any full reform of the judiciary or local self-government or state administration. You are withdrawing the past power that has not prepared a single strategic document on strategic investment. Remember your predecessor, Mr. Ivica Racan, who in three years with the help of Mr. Cacic achieved what the Croats dreamed and highways were made. Was it wrong or wasn't it a question, a big question? So how do we believe what we suggested when you have so far shown that for three years we have had budget rebalances and that each budget has been missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93304	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93305	I listen very carefully to your every word and I can't believe you said that the question is whether or not the highways are built. I've been listening very carefully now. So you have a dilemma about it. Here, that's what it is, that's your attitude, in this House you just said it. Is that a good question or a bad question? Look, I respect every MP, although not everyone came in the same way to this House. I would never come, there is no party like the SDP whose president I became at one point and I am aware of the importance of that institution. You would never, if there wasn't a man named Lesar. He dragged you into Parliament as much as he and I don't agree on many things. And now you're giving us lessons here and you're saying that the question is whether Croatia was wrong to build highways. So give it to the Croatian public. How the government did it under the terms of the cheapest money in the era that could be borrowed and how we do it today cannot be compared. This is the worst financial crisis in Europe, Germany is on the verge of recession, Italy is in recession. So, we are talking about today's period, and we are talking about 6 years after the start of a financial breakdown, the European Union, whose country is a small member, whose share in the European Union economy is measured by very small figures or percentages, remains in the economic crisis. And that the most important economies of the Eurozone are stagnating, and let them fall. That the only serious growth among large economies has a UK budget deficit of over 6%, because they have their currency and can manipulate in the allowed way that the United States does. That's the reality we live in when you're back in 2001 and second and you're having a dilemma about it. Is it good that Croatia built highways? Of course it's good, but of course it's not good if those highways beat us up and we're on those highways and we're trying to avoid it, that's what we're trying to avoid with your support, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93306	Thank you very much. The sixth replica, the esteemed representative of Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93307	Thank you very much. Mr. Milanovic, you spoke of efforts for the stability of the Republic of Croatia. But you also talked about borrowing that is not a solution, but borrowing from previous periods. I must confess by looking at the budgets and watching as Croatia was in charge, that you have surpassed HDZ. And looking at next year's receipts, the financial assets and the debt of $38.5 billion must be a huge amount. But what concerns me especially is that there is no Slavonia and Baranja in the borrowings. But when we look at 10.7 billion that there will be interest, then we must be worried. Croatia, as you said yourself, needs a fairer relationship. But looking at Slavonia and Baranja there are almost no capital investments in Slavonia and Baranja. I wish you'd talked more about it. You were only talking about the Osijek project where you can't avoid co-financing. But looking at Osijek for 27 million kuna will be a smaller budget. But looking at the Republic of Croatia, the budget has grown from the time of the 2008 crisis to today. The budgets of the local self-government units have fallen. Osijek from 600 to 400 million. I'm afraid there won't be a 360 million next year. Therefore, by looking at you talking about asphalt in Zagreb, I can only conclude that Osijek is not visible from Zagreb and what you said was not as convincing as last year. Therefore, I ask the answer when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, which are not seen in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93308	Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93309	In the measures that we have actually adopted these days and tax redistributions and support policy of the regions from which you come is the only real winner. So of the 130 municipalities that will enter, there are 140 municipalities that will enter the system according to new criteria, according to just criteria over 100 of them are from Slavonia and Baranja. This is your place, right? That's what we just said. And you pretend nobody said that. So, for this reason, if you want to and in my party I suffer criticism from some who are used to it in one way, their development index is over 75 and over 100% still think that the state should finance them, although politics has achieved its goal. So, from their handicaps to state policy, they rose and crossed the threshold of relative underdevelopment. And now we're moving on and we're focusing on the end of Croatia that was the most injured in the war. Not just Vukovar, which is '91. The year was a rich city, a real rich city by all means. This may sometimes be a little overdoing but it was a really rich city and the whole neighborhood. And instead of, well, at least shut up, you're talking about how much Osijek's budget has fallen. I don't know the details. I know the context. But I also know that on local self-government, wages and salary expenses were raised during the crisis, and the number of employees grew. Now, try to explain that to yourself and to me. But I won't intervene any deeper, only citizens need to know. So one reform, but indeed a reform, in which, on the fairer criteria of the development index which is strict, we give to those who are poor, it means nothing to you but banking and accounting objections. It's not fair!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93310	Thank you very much. The next replica, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93311	Oh, thank you. Well, here's Mr. President of the Croatian Government I think and I'm afraid that after six recession years and this 2015 will actually be the 7th recession, the 7th is hungry, and I think it's more or less clear to everyone, so I guess to you that no growth of 0.5% in 2015. And that we will, in fact, today, be the record recorders in the failure of economic policy in the EU that we will, unfortunately, remain. And if we're going to discuss the issue of political responsibility or trying to really reform for which this society is calling out, then the question is, would it really be the happiest solution to stop this agony at this moment from actually, regardless of who won those elections so that they can be held as soon as possible and to open up space to another government regardless of whether it's left or right so that they can inhale and really start some reforms? Because I think we are all aware that this will be just another agony until the parliamentary elections. Secondly, when you were talking about Krajiška Street and paved the road I have to give you another example of the investment of Croatian roads. 6 million kunas have just been implemented in the area of Požega-Slavonska County between Brestovac-Požege-Pleternica where it was excellent, normal asphalt and where Croatian roads have just done the same but unfortunately private company no name with Krka the contractor performed so-called. The microasphalt and instead of the normal asphalt that we had on those shares they set up something similar to a macadam, which is called a micro-asphalt and destroyed it and spent several million kunas of government bonds money. And please if you can check it out and determine that condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93312	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93313	Well, I can and will, that's why I listed this example as a waste of city money on things we don't need. And thank you for saying this about reform. We'll check it out, of course. I'm not an Asphalt expert, but we'll check it out. As far as reform is concerned, you come from the same party as the former mayor of Osijek, so by changing the tax system and supporting us, if it's not a reform, we don't know what it is, the Slavonian municipalities that are the poorest in Croatia, so we have classified them and categorized them so that they can receive state support from many who have not received so far. So figure it out or I'm not telling the truth. But it wasn't done to please Slavonia and less Gorski kotar which was more developed than because they showed objective figures. This is how the European Commission works to which you want to report us. You have to be aware of that. Those are strict rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93314	Dear Representative Darko Milinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here we heard that one of the main problems with the state budget is Krajiška Street. But look at the latest legal frameworks that this Croatian Parliament adopted and the debate went in this direction that all 555 units of regional and local self-government are in some way suffering because of the relations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb. Go for a ride with other counties and you will see a series of holes on asphaltes that should be covered next year with new asphalt, but because of the new laws this Croatian Parliament has passed, it will not be possible. Tell me here if it's normal, maybe, but then I ask you to find that Lika-Sen County is the most developed county in the Republic of Croatia and beyond. Is 96% of the municipalities in Lika-Senj County lost that support to new legal proposals. Then tell your SDPs down there that we're the most developed. I am glad that in some ways you have been sensitised by what I have said, not to report it to the European Commission, but to warn you. I think we owe it to you, Prime Minister maybe, I don't know maybe you don't know the true state of affairs and you don't need to know everything if the ministers don't give you the right idea. So in the overall health system obligations of more than 10 billion kunas, the total debt of over 3, such projections, is more than 3.5 billion kuna. It's a document you signed. Well, I think it's our duty to warn if this Parliament has the wrong information, if maybe you have the wrong information. We asked for a report to give us a real state of debt and obligations in the health system. Most people in this House didn't want that. The President of the Parliament can't have it, I can't have it, so who are we going to talk to? We must warn someone because we do not want responsibility for the bankruptcy of the potential Croatia in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93316	Thank you. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93317	The Minister of Health, since you're repeating this, gave an oral report but it wasn't for you at the time that he checked it himself. Where you've been, where you've been running around in the middle of nowhere, nobody knows that, but you haven't been to work. Maybe you've been counting municipalities in person that we don't like, but we love Slavons. You know that's a message, so we don't like Personals, but we love Slavons. That's mean messages. So there are criteria. Of course, you weren't in the House as a former health minister who always had something to say about it, which was blind to the colors when the tunnels were painted, but you see holes in the roads. An interesting representative from Slavonia, the HDSSB, is talking about being paved over every measure. What's true, what's the truth in the end? What are you saying or what he's saying? He's specific and maybe he's right, maybe he's actually done an unnecessary job. And you're talking about holes, where? According to Our Lady, they're gone. According to Perusic, they're gone. According to the Lower Lapac, at the end of the world and Croatia, they are gone. If there are, we'll do it. But you see how difficult it is to be consistent in politics. Or let me finish. So, when Minister Varga was here orally, and the word binding, he spoke of your request, you were gone. Now you'd talk about it, and where were the wolves?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93318	Please, let's keep it, please. Let's keep the parliamentary standard nice. New replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93319	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, at the end of 2011, when you proposed a budget for 2012, you assured us that the growth of GDP of 2% will be realistic and realize that in 2012 we will achieve a 2% growth. At the end of the year, it wasn't growth, it was minus 2%. In 2013, you also assured us, therefore, that the 2013 budget will be growth of 1.8% at the beginning, the rebalances we came to a much smaller growth. However, the conclusion of the year was down to 1.2%. Last year somewhere in this time you assured us that growth in 2014 will be at 1.3%, so the rebalances reduced these growths etc. to have the most likely drop of at least 0.7% this year. And now you assure us that next year will be real growth of 0.5%. Despite the announcements by all the more serious analysts that in Croatia and next year at best, therefore with the greatest optimism there will be stagnation, so 0%, that we will be at 0 at the best possible. The European Commission predicts a slight optimism of 0.2%, you speak here of 0.5%. However, I say more serious analysts all say that in the following year, there will be a fall of about 0.5%. So what makes you optimistically suggest GDP growth here in 2015?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93320	The reply to the replica was respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93321	So I don't know what kind of serious analysts you mean, yourself maybe? Or the ones from your club who are doctors of science who haven't written a book in their lives? Or might the European Commission be an unserious analyst, and you would report us to the European Commission? The European Commission predicts some kind of growth, but serious analysts probably from your benches predict a fall, and where are you? I can make a mistake in my prognosis, everyone is wrong, and they are wrong in the European Commission, but let's remind ourselves of what you promised us in 2009: let's say the Pelješki bridge, and sign contracts without the financial means provided. My prognosis can simply be wrong as well as the European Commission's forecast. Our prognosis may be wrong, but promising a bridge without money, and signing contracts with performers is a crime. Those are your promises. It's not too old yet. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93322	Comrade Matušić, let's keep the parliamentary relationship in Parliament. And my colleague, please, you don't have to love me or the Prime Minister, but you have to respect both the Prime Minister and me while we're here. Thank you very much for your warning. We're going to the tenth replica and respected representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, you say this budget will ensure the stability of public finances, and we are making a budget under the law, draft laws that have not yet been voted in a good part regarding local and regional self-government. So, in this budget are proposals based on what hasn't been voted here yet, or am I perhaps wrong? And how can that guarantee stability and security of budgets and public finances? He looks like this to me like a mixed mosaic without a frame, and if we just touch him, he'll fall apart. The proposal I have is actually the only possible thing that seems to me right now, which is making a decision on temporary financing and right behind the New Year's election call. It is the only way out of Croatia from this situation. And when you talk about roads, when you talk about transparency, then I'm going to set up, I'm going to tie myself up a little bit to this one of yours, looking down the road, on your street. I don't know if you've noticed how there's been a company there all summer, to use such a folk expression, to use machines on the road from Zagreb to Varazdin at the time of the strongest tourist season, and to install asphalt in a road that probably shouldn't have. And at the same time I'm asking you a question about the transparency of the budget, where's Podravski Ipslon, what's with him and where's the Regional Waste Management Centre Piškornica? I can't find him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93324	Thank you very much. Replica's reply, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93325	You see, the problem is that the Croatian highway is being held. So it's not a city street. Croatian highways must be maintained by the highest standards, but it..., really, you have a problem with the fact that Croatian highways, which... are maintained and are in good condition, it costs us and that's good, you made a mistake. However, I was watching you raise your hand to the replica, you know, I'm not sleeping. I have a pretty good concentration. So, you raised your hand to the replica in that second, you, the Mayor of the Crosses who came to power in a coalition with the SDP and for 8 years there was a finger and nail now you have a completely different story, I'll give you... Stjepan Radic as a gesture, perhaps you read them, to inspire yourself a little. There are some very interesting things. But let me answer you why you raised your hand and then changed your mind and crossed over. You raised your hand in the second Minister Lalovec, you replicated him, not me, said the budget would... In that second, I saw you exactly, a billion and 600, 1.65 billion kuna will be more of a budget for agriculture. In that second, you... raised your hand and now you're retired... You'll say I'm following you, I'm just watching. Come on, comment on that, that the budget, because for that you always have warm human intentions, that the budget for agriculture is over a billion and a half. So that's what you're replicating to Mr. Lalovec, but now you're afraid of your own replicas, so you're telling me about highways and highways. Well, don't paint us. You've done a lot of painting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93326	Just a warning. Dear Representative Branko Hrg has raised the line twice, the truth and Minister Lalovac and the Prime Minister. Yeah, to every speaker, yeah, that's the situation. Dearly beloved, please continue for the sake of the citizens of Croatia in a tone that they can follow. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93327	Dear Prime Minister, you said this state budget guarantees the stability of public finances. This should mean that then this state budget will not need to be rebalanced, and whether it will not need to be rebalanced means that it should be sustainable because sustainability is a prerequisite for stability. I think that anyone with any expertise would have to see the risks of this state budget, and those risks are also being warned by the fiscal policy commission, in particular stressing the risk of withdrawing money from the EU. Secondly, recently 10 days ago, we voted in the education strategy that envisions increasing the cost of financing education, and this budget has less than we had a rebalance for the current year 5 days ago. I see neither the concession revenue nor the 2016 and '17 projections in this budget. A year. So, too many risks to make the estimated revenues and not to break the estimated expenditure. I know sustainability is a magic word that covers everything, but I'm afraid sustainability is in contradiction and, in fact, with a sustainable budget, we produce an unsustainable and undesirable state and an unsustainable state in the country. And the state budget, by its nature and delicacy, does not tolerate an irresponsible manifesto, and not even the slightest level of superficiality and I mean, and when you talk about those wasteful things, I have spoken so many times where it can be rationalized, and your minister is a witness because very often he agreed with me when we performed publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93328	Thank you very much. Replica's reply, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93329	The budget is a delicate political instrument based on forecasts, and the forecasts are always such that they can and do not have to be fully met. And when you say that the stability of the budget and public finances, it's your first sentence to see whether or not there's a rebalancing, then I'm telling you it's not true. The rebalancing of the budget in the responsible state and responsible ministry has nothing to do with the stability and sustainability of state finances but only with responsibility and with the realisation of the situation. Many countries, including richer than we normally go through rebalancing. Those who hide, we've seen, they've got them all over Europe, you're finally out of it, they don't have rebalancing, everything's great there. So, stability of public finances, sustainability of public costs and rebalancing, you teach in the economy, it has nothing to do with each other, it's just a matter of transparency based on a certain forecast. She's conservative. We plan to grow 0.5% and this growth is conditioned by all projections, the European Commission 0.2%. In the end, there may be neither, but each oscillation affects the budget. So logical non sequitur does not follow, stability of public finances and costs and budget rebalancing are not the same thought category.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93330	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93331	Your Honor. So let's be honest with the asphalt here they wanted to make you happy if we don't make the prime minister so who are we going to do, here's to being a little cynical. I say it is one correct decision of the City of Zagreb's Communal Company. I'm kidding. But how do you interpret that the head of the Istrian County Fire Department drives a Land Rover Discovery worth 450 grand to more? We have one of those in Buzet, the true god Buzet deserves it, it's the most beautiful city in the world, 6,133 people. To drive such a car in Croatia would also be tolerated to the president of the Parliament and the president of the state, but if your fellow ministers were driving such a car they would simply rob them, literally so. I agree with a lot of waste of money, it doesn't matter if it's about the state whether it's about Zagreb, whether it's about my Buzet, whether it's about Žminj where they take PR agencies or in Pula for the festivals. And then it really offends me when you, for example. One Pula for lamps now spends a million 800 thousand kuna on New Year’s Eve or Christmas, and there are no books for single mothers. or when the County of Istria spends 5 million kuna times 40 and another unit of local self-government in Istria, plus utility companies that is 20, 30 million kuna, and they are not eligible for a fee. When we have 6 million kunas for lighting... cranes, when at a festival in the County of Istria is spent 30 to 50 million kunas etc., etc. when a general hospital is spent on the media in one election cycle 60 million kuna times three mandates. I think one of these practices should be put to rest in both the state and the local self-government in Buzet, and certainly the best measure because at the last minute, VAT has been brought into the budget for charge, not invoiced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93332	Thank you very much. We're going to the next line, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93333	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, we expected in the presentation of the 2015 budget, which is the final budget of this government in the election year, a speech with vision and indications of reform measures in the last year of the term of office. Why am I saying that? In October, because the government decided on a deep analysis of the expenditure of the state budget so that some measures could be withdrawn. So from the presentation of the budget, this is indistinguishable, so whether such a depth analysis will be carried out quickly enough for some more measures to be implemented in 2015. You have rightly established that the transparency of the state budget is important so that the budget can be controlled. However, most experts, let's say the Croatian Employers' Association fundamentally object to the budget which is precisely intransparency, intransparency and lack of visibility. In the end, you said that this was no longer public, and today this is neither a developmental nor a social budget, so of course the question is what is it? Because my opinion is that every budget has to be both socially and partially developed regardless of the difficulties, and if we don't have to know how you see it. So what is this budget for a year that will be electoral, which will be difficult in every sense but it will be difficult and because of the commitments that catch up to us means more than 11 billion interest, etc. And so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93334	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93335	I've listened to your speeches about the adoption of the budget while you were Prime Minister and every time, like your predecessor, you had this verbal figure that the budget was developmental and social. That's why I told myself I'd never say anything like that again because it's just a phrase. So if he's both developed and social in his full it means he's perfect, and that's eye rub. It's in some elements and developed and social as it can be. I say real, and I repeat, you ask what he's like, so I repeat what I said real and real. And ideal can be, perhaps in Norway and Switzerland can be, but in Croatia, Italy, Slovenia cannot be, it is real. It has been developed to the extent that for the first time large amounts of European funds, European funds are placed in development projects but it still does not give me the courage to say that it is just such a developed budget. He's re-a-lan and I'm standing on it. And as for the objection that the budget isn't transparent, I don't know I've talked to people and the new president of the Employers' Association hasn't told me that, so I don't know what the experts said. This budget is more transparent than those earlier and certainly more transparent than when you led the government, although you couldn't change it in two years, it's not realistic, it's not even objective complaints that I can give you, but yes, it's more real. We have more control over income, we have a fiscalization that means something, that's what some people in the APIS have developed in the tax administration. Now some of us are trying to buy and take over this is some kind of knowledge, which is the transparency that we know at all times what's going in and out of the country, that we know how much money they pay. Central wage calculation is something we've been developing and we've been struggling for over two years. Why didn't you start doing that? It is a state that are institutions and it is a model in which citizens will be able to trust for the next 20 years whoever is in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93336	Thank you very much. Now we move on to the replicas of the respected finance minister. The first came from a respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93337	Here's the Honorable Minister, I'll try it with you because I wasn't when Minister Varga gave the oral report on the Croatian health system, so here I'll read the HINA report, let me. Ivan Shuker asked the minister how much the total debt of the state was in health but Varga couldn't answer him, so he announced a written statement that still hasn't arrived today. I was unfortunately here at one funeral, so I couldn't be then. But I'll try with you because I tried with the prime minister, I think he's the most responsible one, the projections today say there's a debt in the health system of $3.5 billion. The Croatian Parliament was suspended for this information because you did not want to, most voted that Croatian representatives in the Croatian Parliament should not know, I do not know why. So, can you confirm here with your word that it is not that long, to tell us how long it is and to tell us whether it is important for the excessive deficit procedure in which Croatia is? So I think we have to tell the truth here, is it true that the total obligations in the Croatian health system are almost 10 billion kunas. Who's gonna cover these debts? Total yes. Who will cover these obligations? Will they affect the deficit this year and next year, and is something hidden in the deficit this year and next year? I can't be more honest and more correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93338	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, you're right, it's very difficult to cover the debts you left, it's true and it's not, and it's again and very, very Mr. Health Minister is, the Minister of Health has verbally said very simply here in the Parliament what he found, as he found it, I'm just saying what he said here on this speaker that he found plus as regards HZZO in books when he made an inspection, that is, when he set payment deadlines that were 2, 3, 4 years old. Finally, because at that time they were not laws on meeting the 60-day payment deadlines, we had to adopt that directive within 60 days. Because we know that actually the debts at that point amounted to between six and seven billion kunas. And you know that in 2013 and 2014, this government has an increased deficit, where we took over the same way as we did in shipbuilding and took over public debt and in 6 billion kunas took over in 2013 and 2014 and therefore the deficits in this 15.6 billion, this year we went to more than 3 billion kuna to resuscitate not only state hospitals but also local hospitals. So these are the figures we had to borrow and get into public debt. What Minister Varga is doing, and that's why this Parliament adopted exactly that, the separation, and I think that together you and your colleague Varga agree with the separation of HZZO from the Treasury that you will manage these funds. But here's what we're saying. Maybe the finance ministers might agree and the health ministers agree on the separation of HZZO's treasury. But Minister Varga is doing a hard job because he's doing more than 22 billion kunas spent on health. But just to know that in 2006, the cost of HZZO was somewhere around 16, 17 billion. And now we need to ask the question of 6 billion kunas increased inside when we talk from taxpayers who pay, who pay, the tax pays that part if you get a better service.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93340	Thank you very much. Now two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93341	Your Honor, Mr. President. With all the understanding of anxiety among HDZ men, but this not only happens for days, but for days now, you see and now, they don't allow, and when they ask, they don't allow it to be answered. If you don't listen to them or if you can't speak freely at your own club this is unacceptable their behavior that here such ones don't know the need to speak when or shouldn't speak A provision of Article 238 to draw attention to this. [[President: What provision?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93342	Dear colleagues, Article 238 does not speak of nervousness. No injuries. It is not good in public business to have anxiety, I agree, it is neither nice nor good because this is not a private business but we all do, I hope, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether or not they think it is okay. And it's very important that the citizens hear what they're saying. And I'd pray that if there's any hatred that we're going to make the most of that hatred because it's not healthy for anyone who hates or works in the Parliament. A new violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93343	Thank you, Mr. President. The article 238, which says that during the debate, an advocate, is injured, in fact, that he must not deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. So I asked the Minister of Finance something. He didn't answer my question, he answered something else entirely. Well, charge me here, say it's my fault that you made, not you, but this government. The new debt in the Croatian health system is from cca. Four billion kuna. You're accusing me of being the one to blame for this debt... for the three-and-a-half billion kuna in the health system. But tell me how big it is, and here I am. Darko Milinovic is guilty of why this government has created a new debt. I'm in, I swear. But tell us that, don't deny... Tell that to the European Commission because this cover-up is possible for the Croatian state's bankruptcy in the next budgetary period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not that the defenders there won't have 10% less pensions, they won't have any.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93344	Thank you very much, dear colleague. My colleague, thank you very much. You didn't specify what the injury consisted of, no injury of course, but you did a little abuse of the Rules of Procedure, so you pollemized and you had no right to controversy. Thank you very much. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93345	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Lalovac, I wanted to ask you how reliable what you said earlier was because we listened to similar stories last year, and then we fixed them twice. Is this budget real or figurative, just to have it, to hold the water until the masters leave. Because I don't think there's any index that goes in favor of the growth that you're talking about because if it's exports then it grows and imports, if there's an increase in the number of unemployed facts, it's that we're down to the number of employees. Let's say this second patent that we are growing the number of unemployed and the number of employees did not praise the threshold, and it is originally a Croatian patent. From the tsunamis of investments we have a bonacu, a heavy bonacu, a reform of administration and a reduction of the number of employees spoken of for 3 years we have a growth programme of agencies, councils, we have a transparent entanglement that creates minuses daily. That's the facts. With this new mega-local reform and what was stable will now be in trouble, and will also affect the state level. From the funds they're talking about, about 7 billion I still consider them in that story about the famous sparrow in the arm and the pigeon on the branch, that reminds me. I see that you too have been infected by optimism by Minister Grcic, so I suggest that you listen to that song "We have a lot of problems", that famous Duo Iron if you remember. It's just that you realize that your optimism is uncovered, and I'll see you on the first rebalancing, it'll be very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93346	Replication response, Honored Minister Boris Lalovac. No, thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please allow me. Ante Sanader?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93347	Is the replica lady registered? ... But I will if I have to. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wanted to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93348	I was told here that you were looking for a replica, and no one else did. ... Branka Juričev-Martinchev...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no record of that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, she asked, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93349	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, Deputy. Minister Lalovac, on several occasions, spoke about the purpose of the proceeds. It would be good if the Prime Minister knew or if you had already met him when he criticized that this street that is now paved could not be financed by the same means as the stay of children in kindergarten. Namely, the asphalting of the streets is made from a municipal contribution or a communal fee, and co-financing of the stay of children in kindergarten is financed from income tax, items that will be significantly lower in all municipalities and cities in the coming years, and I am convinced that this asphaltation was also not a waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93350	Do, nothing, thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93351	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, do you think that the European Commission needs an informer from Croatia that would inform the state of state finances or that they can control it for themselves against Croatia, which is in the process of excessive deficits and then have their own supervision. And when I ask you that, then I want to ask you an additional question, will when they get this budget that is likely to be adopted in the Croatian Parliament confirm that 2 billion and 200 million kunas transferred from the second to the first pension column really in that sense are the revenues of the state budget or will lead to an increase of the deficits from 3.8 to 4.4% and 12.5 billion to 14.7 billion, respectively. And another thing I also wanted to say, these days we were discussing the financing of local self-government and we argued that the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was created as a result of the amendment of the Income Tax Act, came to centralisation of public funds in the Republic of Croatia at the expense of local self-government. And that this is thus confirmed by this proposal for a budget in which, in addition to income tax, income tax revenues are increased by nearly 600 million kuna, at the same time, we reduce income tax revenues by 2 billion kuna from income tax units in the local self-government position. And this difference that leads to an increase in income tax in the state budget is not only the result of the introduction of a new interest tax on savings because, at least it says, the total amount of State budget income from savings tax is around 300 million kuna, and here we are increasing income tax by 600 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93352	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93353	Thank you, Mr. President. What is seen on income tax as the income of the local community I was talking about applying the gross principle just as in profit tax where so far the net position has been reduced or immediately placed, and now it is a gross position. You have on the expenditure side of the budget and therefore happens in that part of the increase in that item. When you spoke about the European Commission that, in fact, they are colleagues from the European Commission just as they are with other countries, so we are in the European semester, they are visiting us, we are going there, we are talking on committees. So Croatia is an equal country, a member of the European Union. And when we talk about the approval of a certain budget, we are not in the euro area that our budget must be approved both in this context and during the convergence programme of the National Reform Programme, respecting certain efforts made by the Government in the sixth year of recession. It is certainly easier to implement certain measures on the expenditure side of the budget when you have certain economic growth. So the same thing in this budget we showed, so we know that in the second year we should be somewhere at 3.5% of the deficit. As far as the European Commission is concerned, we are confident that we will do so with this budget and because we have said that we will reduce the expenditure side, the tax-funded one and we have done so. That part of the tax-funded spending party is that structural change that we actually made for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93354	Thank you, Minister. The last replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93355	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Prime Minister. Probably after this replica of mine, the local SDP chief's gonna file me up again, but it doesn't matter. Well, since I didn't get answers to specific questions from the prime minister, because he probably doesn't know that, I don't think that's how much the man was going on in the budget. I ask you, Ministers, as a responsible person, whether this budget is adopted on the basis of unvoked laws relating to local self-government and the financing of local self-government where they are directly amounts, therefore planned in this budget and whether they are allowed to do so. If he does, do you really believe that he will come true in order to say fifty percent. Why do I say that? I'm saying because you were talking about agriculture, and it's true that Mr. Prime Minister noticed that I'm reacting so instinctively when someone mentions the village and the agriculture that's normal, because today it's probably a shame to be a peasant and it's a shame to live in the country, that's what a fama is. And I'm going to ask here now how do you think it's realistic to achieve the budget and how you say more funds have been planned for agriculture if you've taken three billion kunas in the last three years of the budgetary village and agriculture. And now you're planning rural development funds that are planned somewhere around two billion and something, and we know that eventually in the second half of next year we'll be able to open up competitions for rural development measures. So, totally unrealistic planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93356	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93357	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague. So what you're saying about law-making is why it's a package of laws. We talked yesterday and the day before yesterday about these laws that you're talking about, and they're going to vote together with the budget, so it's in the voting package, so in that part, I think you know that as a whole, all these laws are being passed. When we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture and all other ministries, look simply 6 years of recession, budget and when the economy loses more than 100 billion kuna of income, when we lose 200 thousand jobs normally, then the issues of financing health and financing of agriculture and financing of the central state are raised. And what has been tried in this budget, and that is why, in this part of it, there is strong progress to go withdrawing those funds, because we simply can't get out of that economy. You saw that we gave a number of incentives to the economy both through reinvested profits and through the reduction of certain other categories, to begin, to return to certain rates he had before. And that's why we're saying, we don't have enough money to take more from citizens and from the economy, but that these money exists in the EU, and that's why this budget, especially the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister has made it very clear on the Committee on Agriculture that it will have 1.65 billion kunas in the budget compared to 2014. Compared to 4.86 billion for support and capital projects, it's 51% more money. 3.47 billion for direct payments, 3.73 billion from EU funds, and we have reduced 150 million from taxes, taxation of Croatian citizens, which means that each minister, means that they withdraw these funds and that the opportunities are huge. No matter how many risks there are and even greater opportunities to withdraw funds, and then finally to say that the Croatian village and Croatian agriculture will get that money and that is why we are and that is why we have actually entered the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93358	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted the list of requests for replicas and replies to the replica. We now move on to reports of the board, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, the Committee on Education Valter Boluncic. National minorities, thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93359	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with his associates. So here on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I would just look back on the part relating to dedicated incomes and incomes, and my own income in science and higher education, which was a lot of talk about. What we think is right and they will be monitored, so through the state budget. But just to point out that it does not actually come with the amendments to the committee and the physical payment to the state budget, but they would remain in the accounts of their institutes and universities and, therefore, the Committee has submitted two amendments saying that the obligation to pay off dedicated incomes and receipts would later apply to science and education. This does not, of course, prevent these, receipts and revenues from being recorded as provided for in the state budget but not entering the Treasury, but staying, therefore, in the accounts of the institutes and public universities. I think that's very important because of the debate that's been going public lately. And, of course, no one is against controlling and monitoring those costs. There are also other amendments that are purely technical, so it is not changing, but, for example, the Croatian Science Foundation is just looking for a division to know which part goes for projects, which part of the doctor's work, but remains the amount of 105 million kuna. So I think these two amendments are quite important and that they will be adopted which I say on the one hand the state budget remained as it was because the funds are being recorded, but it does not, therefore, come into physical payment. That part of the amendment concerns the Law on the implementation of the State budget. Thank you. I'm just saying that with six votes for one abstention and two against supporting the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93360	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 56th session, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament considered the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia as an interested working body. It has been concluded, among other things, that part of the financial programmes are foreseen at the level of 2014 in the examination of the State budget, of course, when it comes to national minorities, with adjustments made in the meantime through rebalancing, while a number of programmes provide for significantly reduced resources. The resources available to the Council for National Minorities deployed by the Council for National Minorities to Associations and Institutions of National Minorities as support for programmes for achieving the cultural autonomy of national minorities under the 2015 proposal would be at the level of the State budget rebalancing for 2014 which had already been reduced by 7.3% compared to the previously planned amount for 2014. In this way, the funds for those purposes would be kept at the lowest level over the past 5 years during which they have been continuously reduced. The Government's Human Rights and Rights Office of National Minorities in the total amount remains assets for 2014 although the structure of funds and financed programmes is changing. It is further pointed out that the years-long reduction in the budget for national minorities has reached a minimum and that any further reduction of these funds would undo all that has been done so far in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and put into question the implementation of the commitments undertaken by the Republic of Croatia in respect of national minorities. Furthermore, as regards human rights, a large reduction of 21.6% is foreseen for the Government's Office for Gender Equality. The Office for Associations has also been stressed and the funds continue to be reduced by 12%. It has been noted that the proposed reduced funding for programmes concerning the protection and promotion of human rights will have an additional negative impact because interested users will not be able to provide participation for projects that are ready to be funded by the EU, thereby significantly reducing the possibility of withdrawing funds from European funds. It's about these two offices, so the Association Office is 12% less, the Gender Equality Office is 21.6% less. Furthermore, the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia remains at the level reached in 2014 with the need to bear in mind that during 2014, it was reduced by about 5%. For Croatian teaching abroad, funds are reduced by 10% compared to 2014, while the education rate for children of Croatian citizens abroad reduces by 15.6% compared to the original amount established by the State budget for 2014. Finally, defence funds remain at the level of 2014, except when it comes to the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality, but it is attributed to the funds that have come for international projects and which will not already be in the coming year when the reduction is foreseen. Finally, a reduction in funding under the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is envisaged from 6.5% compared to 2014 which continues the trend of a constant reduction in funds for needs... via the office. The proposed reduction of funds for the care of exiles, to support return to BiH, to a regional housing programme, to provide housing, and to finance individual municipal connections will further discourage a return that has been in complete stalemate for a long time, which is in full collage with the principled support of returning to the war on the displaced population. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by majority, 7 votes and 2 against, to the Croatian Parliament to bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 with appropriate projections for 2016 and 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93362	Thank you too, Mr. President of the Board. President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Honored Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93363	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished prime minister, minister and deputy minister. At its 40th session of the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2016 and 2017 as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the proposed state budget was explained through a demonstration of the macroeconomic state of sustainability of public finances and the introduction of methodological changes. Data are given that total planned revenue of HRK 106.4 billion total planned expenditures are 119. So the planned deficit for 2015 is $12.5 billion or 3.8% of GDP. In 2016, the deficit is projected at 12.2 billion or 3.5% of GDP while in 2017 it will move at 8.4 billion or 2.3% of GDP. It has been pointed out that the ministry's budget lines are on a constant level, that significant savings have been achieved. True, they are not visible because they are partly directed to repair the damage caused by the flood. The funds from EU funds have been withdrawn, significant funds have been spent for the E-authority Information System and are planned for 2015 and significant funds for the Real Estate Assessment System. The debate also requested clarifications on the amounts achieved under the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings and on the amount of EU aid for the recovery of flood damage in May 2014. The need to increase the revenue side of the budget and to assess the existence of the HZZ as outside the budgetary user has been highlighted. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote, 6 for and one against proposing to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and the 2016 and 2017 projections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93364	Thank you. No more boards reported. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93365	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister, with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's very sad to watch this assembly when we're discussing the most important political document, and the strongest leverage to run economic policy, and it would be good, given that it's this document, when we don't have the arguments to talk about raising ourselves above personal reckonings. But what can we say about what the summary of this government has been for the past four years? Only two data, and then I don't think there's any more macroeconomic indicators to talk about. 200 thousand fewer jobs, with 1 million and 540 thousand at the end of 2011, today is 1 million and 340 and a net increase in public debt of 70 billion. That's the result of this government. And when we talk about this budget, its key element is not some mathematical indicator, but that it is simply incomparable to previous periods. You cannot compare either the income or the expenditure side and this clearly says that the level of transparency of this budget is historically low. No budget has ever been as non-transparent as this one. Because the transparency of the budget is when you can compare the data, it's transparency and it's a fact. But what is irrefutable is that, unfortunately, these budgets were done by countries that were in trouble and we know how we ended up, above all, Greece, with a great desire to cover up the real deficit. It's a fact and you can't get away from it. However, no one should report it, those who will loan us money tomorrow and those who will evaluate us in Brussels will do well to study this document and its assessment will be just like this, and the assessment of a bad document like this will pay Croatian citizens through increased risk and at an increased interest rate. What is the basis and basis for making each budget, a good budget? Therefore, basic policies should be integrated in which this budget arises. So at this point, we can talk exclusively about fiscal policy in the overall economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, although frankly speaking, this government does not have economic policy and therefore fiscal policy is as it is, none. However, for us another very important factor is that we are in the excessive deficit mechanism and that this is why we need to clearly structure measures to meet the conditions set by the annual limits so as not to suffer further consequences. First of all, through the growth of the risk premium. And the rise in the risk premium of your colleague and colleague is your interest rate growth. And regardless of historical time, the historical era of low interest rates Croatia is currently in debt very high. So see that the risk factor for our entrepreneurs is 5, 6, 7% and the established reference rate is 0,40. And that's all the consequences of these shops, because it's just... That's how they judge us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we can't get away from that. In structural terms, the proposed changes in fiscal policy in the 2015 budget are practically returning to the initial state at the end of 2011 when they were presented and then suspended. And this is very important to say, and this is all that happens later on with income tax, and the fall on the budget of the units of local self-government is primarily the result of what this government has brought over the past years and later annulled. So remember the story with a health contribution of 15 to 13, then 13 to 15, changes in VAT rates for catering, announcements of changes in the income tax system, etc. etc. In total, the government in fiscal terms made a full circle and returned to the beginning of 2011, but with 200,000 fewer jobs and with 70 billion more debt. That's a fact. What is even more important to mention, that all announced promises in terms of growth in tax revenues were practically transferred to the beginning of 2016. So there was no courage if it had already decided to do something, to do it and to save it in a certain way, if they thought so and not to carry out the attack on the budgets of the local self-government units. Therefore, no significant savings on the expenditure side in the 2015 budget were made, which means deliberately creating chaos in public finances at the end of 2015 and bringing the new Government of the Republic of Croatia into an extremely difficult situation, that is, the fact. The spending party cannot change more significantly without structural reforms, structural reforms have not been implemented. Because if they had been implemented, then the budget for the biggest budget users would have looked quite different. The period of extremely low interest rates on the capital market will not be used during 2015 to restructure public debt and to implement public sector reforms but will be one lost year, noting that Croatia has only 2 or 3 years until the return of interest, which could lead to serious problems with public debt service, above all in 2017. Therefore, I view this as deliberately lost in 2015, aware of the choice of... chaos in Croatian public finances and I hope that those who have done this together are aware of what they have done even though they say that public finances have never been more transparent. Otherwise, the fiscalization project was long started at the Ministry of Finance, and this is just the end in accordance with technological data. So, expenditure on subsidies and the necessary co-financing of European structural projects, where are they in the budget? Let's comb the entire budget so we can see what positions the domestic component of seven billion kuna is secured in. If you look at the total this budget is based exclusively on the increased withdrawal of 4 billion kunas and increased VAT revenues. So where is this domestic component, someone say why the budget explanation does not include the tax-listed positions in which this domestic component for EU funds is located? And what's the fact for 2015, as far as the government budget deficits are concerned, it's definitely going to be somewhere at about 6%, so 20 billion kuna, and we can draw, write, so the budget is this non-transparent that we're going to be 12, 13 billion or 3.8%. He's definitely on ESI 2010 20 billion kuna. It also implies further growth of public debt to an amount of more than 85% which will be the highest level of public debt among all new EU Member States, i.e. we can say as far as this indicator is concerned we are the worst. We've achieved all of this by the merits of the current government in just three years of her term, we've achieved this under quotes, so that we don't really think so. As regards the revenue side of the budget, it is again overestimated both in the category of income from contributions and in the category of income tax, i.e. income from VAT. The result of this budget will be a rebalance already practically in the first part of 2015 or accumulation of debt default during 2015. That's what's going on in all these three years, so-called. the postponement of payments and therefore our budget deficit is so and therefore certain expenditures in one year when this abnormally high growth is very high. In the financing account there is no indication of revenue from giving highways in concession because look, if someone claims it is the only solution, the first thing in my opinion, can think of it, but if someone says it's the only solution then it brings Croatia into an unfavourable position because if you claim those who should take something,... it pays you, that it's the only solution if you don't do it because you fail, surely there will be an offer, much worse, but let's ignore it. If this is a serious thing, then since it is the revenue from concessions, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, it had to be in the budget. Marked. You don't have that. The government has even failed to link even the basic elements of the fiscal guidelines it itself has brought us, convergence and budget. Here, look at this, for 6 months, the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Efforts, explain how amending the Income Tax Act will increase the purchasing power of Croatian citizens, increase their wages and thus boost consumption. At the same time, fiscal policy guidelines say that the change in income tax will relieve labour prices. This is the diametric opposite of what is said because if you say the labour price will be charged, then it is understood that what is less taxed, that it will not go into the employee's pocket, but will remain with those who are employers. That's what the guidelines say, so it's not my make-up. The next thing, the 2014 budget, 2015, received a negative opinion from the Fiscal Commission. This Fiscal Commission is colleagues and colleagues, the extended hand of the Croatian Parliament, it is made up of independent experts who should analyse the budget for us, give us their opinion on the budget. For the second year, therefore, that constituency body gives a negative opinion. And you can read it, if I have time, I'll read you five, six of their basic grudges and the risks that they warn us about what might happen next year. But all that worries, except for this government. Therefore, what is also a characteristic of the 2015 budget is that an extremely unreal increase in the amount of funds foreseen for the withdrawal of EU structural funds which does not follow the corresponding amount of co-financing of European projects. So, one serious government is all we've heard in the last few days would count the state budget by the ministries, according to the items provided by the domestic component for EU funds because you can't withdraw EU funds until the project is completed and it's finished. You'll get the part that belongs to you, but if you don't have insurance in your own budget, then that's the story it is. However, since we will not even get accreditation before 8 months next year, the question is then how in the last 3 months will we withdraw those 7 billion and definitely since at this point it is late in administrative steps it is certain that Croatia will not be able to withdraw 600m euros solely because of the inability of the government administration. This year's recklessness and unpreparedness is most evident in the fact that they are making significant changes in the local state's functioning system without any adequate preparation, i.e. the preparation of compensatory measures, and we are entering a fully undefined fiscal space, and there may also be a huge potential problem tomorrow concerning units of local self-government and not only in terms of fiscal effects of making changes in income taxation but also a full set of reform measures for the restructuring of local self-government. Both colleagues and colleagues, if you took 2 billion and 100 million from someone, it would be logical for you to see what the Vice-President of the Greek Government said in the last few days in the budget. The only thing you see in the budget is funds for decentralised functions that actually went back a billion and 270, and next year, a billion 510. If you have reduced the share of the local self-government unit for decentralised functions from 12% to 6%, if the base is reduced by almost 20% of them are practically only 4.5% of these funds for decentralised functions, they have lost 900 million, and here they are given an increase of 240 million. It should also be openly told Croatian citizens that in these two years 5 billion were taken from the first pillar and that these are obligations that will come in the coming years when pensions are paid to those who have special status are primarily police officers and soldiers. So, to repeat the historical intransparency, the historically high public debt, the historically high deficit. Finally, no more serious reform has been addressed in the budget, not a single expected shift in terms of removing macroeconomic imbalances, which the European Commission also confirmed and launched a procedure for removing them or for Croatia to act urgently. The position of the current government can only be characterised as extremely irresponsible, dangerous against the well-being and interest of all Croatian citizens and their future. I must therefore, with great concern, reject this draft budget. but according to this content of unideality and cowardice, intransparency and all other attributes that go or cannot be called state budget, and unfortunately this is the worst act ever put before the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But I repeat 200 thousand Croats have lost their jobs, and all Croatian citizens are more in charge of 70 billion kuna after the term of office of this government and we certainly will not support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93366	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93367	Dear colleague Shuker, you said at the very end that this was the worst budget and that it couldn't be called a budget. At the very beginning, you confirmed what I was saying to the Prime Minister, no structural reforms were carried out, which is why you have also confirmed the chaos in finance, there are no investments in the public sector that have been announced, investments in INA, Croatian railways, Croatian electricity companies. That's not what the Prime Minister is talking about, but what you've noticed at the very beginning when he can't answer comes down as usual to a personal level. He even drove into a spokesman's office today to try to insult the other. It's really low and you don't expect it from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93368	You can replicate your colleague, Vuksic, to Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93369	If I were to replicate the first sentence that my colleague said the prime minister was going down to a personal level, that was Mr. Shucker's first sentence, the first sentence. You weren't listening. Of course the Prime Minister doesn't know who he is or who he is because of who he entered the Parliament for. To Prime Minister Milanovic, what you said was a bad budget as if the budget was working on Vidovi Milan, and Vidovi Milan can't predict because he cheats, so this budget is also a fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93370	But now you're having a personal discussion. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93371	My colleague Vuksic, I said that this government in its fiscal policy has made a full circle and has returned to the beginning only because it costs us too much, 70 billion new debt. But also if we take one large part of economic policy, it's also made a full circle. You remember that in the first year of office it was said that economic tsunami holders would be public enterprises. When electricity prices rise 25%, then we are told they are funds for investments in HEP. For three years, citizens of the Republic of Croatia have actually been paying 2.5 for more expensive electricity. Where's HEP's investment? They're gone. After a year, investment holders will no longer be public enterprises but will be a private sector. If you don't make structural reforms in the public administration, then the private sector will run because of all this. Look at only 37 changes in tax laws, look at what's been going on for the past 2, 3 days. So who will come under these conditions to invest in the Republic of Croatia when he simply doesn't know what's going to happen to him tomorrow. That's the legal certainty. And let's not get carried away and invent hot water, you know exactly what to do, you just have to have courage, not to use some other expression, spend it, and do it. However, this budget and its non-transparentity only confirms what unfortunately happened to the false, fuzzing story someone is constantly guilty of something else. This budget is exclusively the result of work, this will say the work of this government and the result exclusively of their policy. Look only at the total amount of interest 25% applies, and next year it will be 30% exclusively for this government's three-year period, and the Croatian state exists 24 years. Now look at 24 years of age 4 years are practically when you look at 15, 16% of the time, and you have 30% interest costs. That says it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93372	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93373	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you mentioned your esteemed colleague Shuker as one of the problems I agree with the issue of withdrawing and the reality of withdrawing funds from the EU funds. It's projected 7.2 billion, not only is it unrealistic, but in fact it's not ambitious because the potential is somewhere 20 billion. But why is that unrealistic? It's unrealistic actually because when we remember in 2013 it was a 1.6 billion plan, we withdrew 742 million. Last year 2013, we entered the EU plan was 2.9 billion again very unambitious, but then it didn't happen at all, it fell to 1.7 billion, by the end of October we were able to pull something over 700 million. So if we failed to withdraw even those rebalanced 1.7 billion last year, which makes sense that we are now expected to withdraw 5 or even 10 times as much money from European funds. By the way, we are investing 3.6 billion in the European Union and we have been less and less able to withdraw, as we can be expected to be so much money and everything or a good part of this budget is based and is constantly mentioned to be one of the important sources. We therefore, as far as we know, that famous information system of Vice President Greeks has not yet been operational, we obviously have neither the knowledge nor the power to withdraw as a state, the government of that money in which it is then realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93374	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93375	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Vice President Reiner. If last year's planned amount fell by a billion and 300 million kuna, if this year's forecast is to withdraw 7.2 billion kuna, then I can't possibly pull a parallel to one budget position and I've talked to you about it, and that's a reduction for the scientific research work of 230 million kuna. Who's going to make projects other than higher education people? Therefore, if we do not invest in young people, if we do not invest in science, then there will be no one to make these projects in the future. However, when you look at the structure of this budget to heal the inefficientness of all these stories, then it is distributed across various ministries, so look at the growth of the economy ministry, the defeat of the Ministry of Trade, the rise of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development is solely based on the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds. And in the opinion of those who know more about this business than we do, it is said that Croatia will not get the most likely accreditation before 8 months. If we don't get credentials until the 8th month, so what's supposed to happen is that we're practically withdrawing over 7 billion kuna in the last three months, simply impossible. And because of this bureaucratic delay, because you are in a position to get the European Union's funding you need to go one 4 steps, Croatia will not be able to prepare itself administratively in 2016 and will not be able to withdraw around 600m euros. ... 2016 [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93376	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93377	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Shuker, you have well noticed that this is a historically low budget transparency and the government's work should not be spent much of the wording these three years because all indicators are negative in this year and they will be that way by the end of this year, the 12th quarter of GDP falls and unemployment, there are no larger investments, an excessive deficit. And the budget actually got a negative evaluation of the Fiscal Commission. What I'm trying to say about this non-transparentity is resources related to the development of civil society. I am pleased to have the Prime Minister here, so I like to hear that, when these funds are compared to funds for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and knowing that we have interstate agreements with 6 countries where the prime minister does not insist at all and should, you will see how much funds are actually for the Croatian national minority related to 12 European countries, somewhere around a million and 506,000 kuna. Not to mention the situation in which the Croatian national minority is in Serbia, i.e. in Montenegro, for example, the Republic of Italy under this agreement does not give a single lip to the Croatian national minority in Molise, it is a pity that it was not spoken of. And the other thing about the return of Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina has been reduced from 9 million kuna to 6 million kuna, not to mention the refugee Croats from the Republic of Serbia, or Vojvodina, to about 40,000 kunas, nor do they have an item in this budget to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93378	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93379	If my colleague Babic had a hard time mentioning all the positions, however, so as not to turn out again or again, they said this, on page 81 of the budget is housing and ideas for help, the return of Croats to BIH reduced 3 million and another thousand kuna. But what is crucial is whether Croatia is using its position as a member of the European Union to strengthen the position of Croats where national minorities are, above all, in Serbia, Hungary, Romania, Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro and the other particular problem of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, you mentioned only this, but let us not forget that this government does not want to abolish the pension tax primarily for Croatian emigrants from overseas countries. No one's running the merger process, actually signing a health agreement. And we can open up a series of, a series of questions where we simply don't use our position, we strengthen our muscles because of silly things towards the European Union, and what is our constitutional obligation, what is our obligation under the Law on Croats outside of Croatia, we don't care about it, and we don't care. Because only a declarative speech, unfortunately, won't help those people. So look at the relationship that public television was in the moments when they were, so we can say in a certain way the fateful elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it was simply meant to show to the international community and to all that Croats when they can hardly choose their member of the presidency. And just because of the engagement, we were able to do it. But as our public television has also acted against Croats who are equal people in Bosnia and Herzegovina but only on paper, they do not have their own channel as two other people on TV and are practically the only information window in the world of HRT that has practically completely ignored them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93380	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93381	Dear colleague Schuker, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, of course you said you would not want the budget, which is normally understandable to you as an opposition, but you said the budget for next year 2015 was lost. You HDZ really are qualified to talk about lost years, I agree. You're not qualified here, you're overqualified, you're a doctor at a lost age. To remind you why you're qualified to talk about lost years. Because in the last 3 years, the HDZ government's decline in GDP has been almost 10%, 9 percent. These are lost years for Croatia, not this year or next. These are really lost years for Croatia. And yet, when the whole of Europe went into crisis and started to recover, it didn't happen to us. To remind you, the difference between growth or GDP decline between the average of the European Union and Croatia at your time was 3 and 4% between Croatia, of course, to the damage of Croatia. In our time, we've only reached 1% or less than 1%. Of course, we're not happy with this, but with what you've been doing, of course, we have to be particularly dissatisfied. Otherwise, it's often talked about neighborhoods here, how the 12th quarter is the fall, because it's deliberately talking about neighborhoods because it doesn't want to talk about age. Why, because then we'd have to say that it's already been 6 years of crisis that your last three years have been a crisis that you want to hide and only say that the crisis has been since the SDP's been in power. Unfortunately, the fact is quite different. Otherwise, which are lost years, we can talk about it, it's not this one, it's your three years when we fell 10%, it's lost years. So you did, and what you're offering we haven't heard here in Parliament any good legal proposal, but we heard from your colleague who was one of your main economic strategists that you had no solutions and that you were abandoned by Mrs. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93382	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93383	You know what, the worst thing is when someone's a bad copy of their boss, and that's exactly what you are. When you don't have the arguments, then you're going to insult yourself. ... Excuse me, do you have something to say to Mr Milanovic? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't get nervous, please. You're a guest here and act like one, no. So I said he's a bad copy of his boss, when there's no argument then he's insulting and I'll do it again. And look, colleague Jelusic, if you had any argument on my debate, you would have talked about it, but talk about 2009 and 2010 and compare it to today's times is simply something that is incomparable. Just watch fellow Jelusic, unlike you, I could talk about some of your epochs but I won't. I'm not going down to that level. 2008 Croatia had a 0.8% deficit and then, regardless of the Prime Minister's laughter, I won the World Bank Award, the only Croatian minister enrolled in the World Bank's book "Top Ten Reformer". So that says it all. And fellow Jelusic, look, in three years' time, 200,000 jobs were missing, gone, a public debt without those guarantees, if he added HZ guarantees then it would have gone beyond 85 billion. So I was talking about the net public debt is 70 billion and my colleague Jelusic can discuss it with you, but also if you want to discuss that second period we can discuss it, but it's very difficult with the bad copies to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93384	Who are the bad ones and who are the good copies of that after. Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93385	You're speaking to your colleague Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club, so let me ask you the moment when the most important document is brought to the Assembly where your boss is. ... You're not a bad copy of your boss because it's impossible to make a worse copy than he is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's just impossible. ... But he's not here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The HDZ thus shows his relationship to this document. Pure politics, pure politics and nothing else. You're talking about the deficit and you say we're not going to be 12.5 billion, it's going to be 20 billion. I wonder why you're trying to make that deficit bigger than it is when you're responsible for this kind of deficit amongst others. 10.7 billion kuna deficits go on interest only. The other day, Deputy Radjenović saw it, which is 30 million a day, both on Christmas and New Year's Eve, 30 million a day, every day. All governments were in charge, this one was in debt, and the government of Ivo Sanader was in charge of you, where you were Minister of Finance. Well, you've done nothing but go around the world and take money, you've been in debt. Racan's government was also in charge, the government of the first HDZ administration was also in charge, for the first 10 years. The question is, who was in charge? Sanader's government to cover the cost of robbing public companies, Racan's government to build the roads we're driving along, the first HDZ government from the first administration probably to finance the cost of the war because the war is expensive, but today we read that the very minister of finance, the late Jozo Martinovic, took the money collected to buy weapons so that Gavrilovic, your favorite, could buy something for 3.3 million dollars, a Gavrilovic holding company worth 68 million. And please go under the tent and explain it to the defenders who suffered while Jozo Martinović and Đuro Gavrilovic were taking money for weapons to get rich. Explain that to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93386	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93387	My fellow Trackman, there's nothing else a man can expect of you but petty dirt because it's the only thing you know. But look, you didn't mention that the state budget is also financing the Brijuni you used, that the military ships on which you were driving are also funded. But you should know fellow Stazic that Croatian highways are not in the state budget, at least you should have learned so much when you're already hitting. And the other thing, when you mention Gavrilovic, and there's some obligation left from Racan's government, I think when you buy Slavija that he must be paid 20 million kuna. I don't know what kind of joke it is, but that's right. But it's important that you attack. And it would also be very interesting to see when you're already talking, you've made me, I'm really sorry to my colleagues, to some level of personality, attacks and insults, it would be very interesting to see your expenses too, but I'm not saying we're not going to talk about it. I've been discussing the budget, trying to bring out with my humble knowledge what I thought at the HDZ Club that it wasn't good, but you can't discuss it because you don't know. Another thing, why would Mr. Karamarko come here to listen to what Milanovic said today? Was that the level of the Prime Minister? No, I don't. Well, you didn't want to hear it, you weren't in the assembly. So you're obliged to listen to your prime minister. Look when HDZ's draft budget was, HDZ's side was full, you didn't want to listen to it because you can't defend it. And now you're calling the president of the opposition. Do you have anything against what I said? Offer me an argument and I'll talk to you about it. But my colleague Stazic, we've known each other too long and I don't think that a simple debate on some level of personal need go. Let's talk facts. You're such a very benevolent person when it comes to someone else. Did you happen to apologize to your colleague Roncevic? Did you? Well, that's the human dimension. You attacked him, the man was legally freed. Well, it would be human if you said, well, I thought so, I had the wrong information. It's human-sized fellow Stazic, not assault, spit, and when the judiciary proves that it's not true what you said you don't have the courage to say sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93388	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93389	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you spoke about 200 thousand lost jobs at the beginning of the debate. More specifically, 187,000 jobs have been reduced since the start of the crisis from 2008 to October. That's what your government and your government are all about. It's facts like you say more than once. However, the crisis did not take place in 2008, 2009. The foundations of this crisis have been hit long before, even though I don't like to go back in time. I must remind you, in 1990, we had a million 968 thousand jobs. After nine years, 10 years in 1999, we had a million and 406,000 jobs. That's less, in those nine years 562000 was lost. Out of that number, 362000 went into retirement and there were 200 thousand left on the stock market. These are facts and we cannot escape from it and, of course, it is a general opinion that this deficit in those nine years is difficult to compensate especially now that this long-standing, six-year crisis has come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93390	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93391	I used it when I was talking about the unemployed, actually the number of employees I used to use this government's data. So the document is called the Proposal for an Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Look, I'm talking about the document you voted for in this House. I didn't vote for him. So you also voted for the accuracy of the data. The inside says that there were a million 530 and a few thousand employees at the end of 2011 and now a million and a 343 or a million 348, so let's say that's like 190 or 192 thousand. However, while you are speaking with so much love about the 1980s and 1990s, do not say that the first major debt of the new Croatian state was a billion and 900 million marks for the recovery of the fallen economy and the recovery of banks. This was the first major task of the Republic of Croatia. 'Cause look, when I'm talking about things like this, then I need to go with facts, not why? Because this debt is paid back by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Another thing, only two city of Vukovar, Sisak. Gone in the Chetnic aggression of 50,000 jobs, not to mention how many missing those who were supposed to be the bearers of the economic development of young people. So we can talk about everything. I never said that we were ideal, that we were great, we had our mistakes like everyone else. But just so these mistakes don't happen again, because the worst is the one who pays two or three times the same mistake. Let me base some experience and bring some facts freely. We can discuss these facts. But I'm saying, the first major debt of the new Croatian state was a billion million marks for the recovery of banks and the recovery of the fallen economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93392	Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93393	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with you, Mr. Schucker, that this document, therefore the state budget, the proposal for a state budget for next year, is the document which decides in some way on the fate of Croatia, on the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the most lenient document in Croatia's history. You've estimated, because since you're also the former finance minister, you can probably read some of the items better than we can, which aren't deep in finance, and you've estimated the deficit, so somewhere if I'm not mistaken for more than 20 billion kunas, it will be. I asked here if this budget could be defended, that it could be scored on it, so you don't think the prime minister would be there. But he's so indefensible that he's not even a minister, here's as far as I can tell. He remained a deputy, every honor with his assistants, to have all these negative connotations of the State budget for 2015. Thunderbolts are this non-transparent, non-implementable budget in 2015, as you have announced. I think in the first half of next year, there'll be rebalancing. I'm also, I agree with that intransparency. I, as a former minister, support it. But in this way, I don't know if you know that state hospitals will stay at the Treasury and we don't know under what conditions, and the county hospitals will be separated from the Treasury. So, another intransparency. This has never happened in the history of the budget and the Croatian state, such intransparency. You don't know whether HZO is in the Treasury or not or outside the Treasury. I asked the Minister of Finance, so look, it has to be recorded. Guarantee us here with your honor, saying that the debt in the health system is not three and a half billion kuna. He didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93394	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93395	Col. Milinovic, transparency is one of the more comparable data. Look at the position of the Ministry of Finance. This is the 2014 data. Everything else is empty. And look at the next page of 2014 empty, and in 2015 and 16 full. You know why my colleague Milinovic? Because so far income tax has returned from the aggregate account, for units in the area of special state care. Among other things, we introduced the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget in 2004 and this was not seen in the budget. Therefore, it was in the budget to assist local self-government units that did not cross a certain income censorship. And now colleagues of some of our leaders of the local self-government unit, when they saw this data happy, we were overjoyed. I didn't say, you of most of this money that came to you here will have to be returned through tax returns when citizens submit and you will generally get less. And why less? Because before the return was about 400 million, and this aid position was about 329, 330, that's a total of 729 million. You know how much this position is now? 540 million. So 200 million less when it all comes together. But that these data can be compared, that clearly indicated positions where EU funds are, that it is so transparently clarified and that this will be spent but at the fifth level in state hospitals and that money will be spent in nature parks and national parks could then talk about something. However, when you cannot compare two elements of information, it leads you to a non-transparentity that no institution recognises, especially those who lend you. But all with one goal of fine-tuning the deficit will be 12.5 billion. However, it will really be 20 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93396	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93397	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. So I'm going to react to that part of you because it's still not clear to me, and you're talking about employees and a drop of 200 and a few thousand jobs in a few years. Why don't I get it? Because recently Mrsic was here and he said he had opened 220 thousand jobs. Well, now it doesn't really agree with each other because we have what we keep mentioning that we're running down the number of employees and the number of unemployed at the same time and that it's a new patent that needs to be sold to someone, you might compliment them in... as someone says but that we really understand what's going on in Croatia. Because it just needs to be cleared up. We are often respected in our opposition that we are not proposing any laws. Let's get this story straight now. We have several legislative proposals that have been on the clock for three years, waiting down on the Parliament's agenda. We discussed one of the only ones, the Law of Marine Good and Seaports. Everyone praised him, great, good but we were told that in principle and because the government's proposal for the same law cannot be even released into another reading. I took a look at what they suggested. Here's one law, a few laws. Here, the 2009 Contribution Act, the proposal from 15% to 7%, with an explanation of the lack of 9 billion to settle the savings on the recommendation of the governor of the CNB. I don't know if it's 7% now, I think it's 15% again. So then the Value Added Tax Act, interconnects to electricity, heating and fuel of 10%. Well, then, the mandatory health insurance bill, the suspension of the administrative fee. Here they are in power, the laws were then proposed but an administrative fee, let's say, still exists. The 10% VAT does not exist for fuel, electricity, etc. And the contribution is not 7 but 15% again. Just so you know why laws are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93398	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93399	My colleague Boric, when you propose laws to politicize, then you act like the government today. Because if they had seriously thought they would practically at the first session after the constitution came with one metre of law and nicely said we proposed this while we were in opposition, we made Plan 21 based on this and we will spend it and take Croatia to prosperity. However, none of these laws have been proposed. Why? Well, because they were simply inexhaustible. But they were pretty like this for a political fight. The second thing, is it any better for the Prime Minister when he gets real criticism of some kind of document? Let him look at our discussions on budget proposals and see what happened when that budget was carried out so he can see who was right and who was wrong. Well, we don't need to be told publicly that we were right, we're not asking for public praise. Well, let him attack us, too, but at least let him take some suggestions for the reason Croatian citizens pay for it. It is not in our interest for him to commend us here and it is in our interest that Croatian citizens do not pay for what they pay for. So that's it. And you said the Seaport Act. A fellow Bacic suggested it based on the wishes of all the mayors and mayors on the Adriatic part below. Why? Everyone thought the same thing. And that was the first step when clearly to the units of local self-government sent a message there's no decentralisation, we'll take everything, so we'll give you as much as it goes. And the last blow to decentralisation is definitely the introduction of centralised and this amendment to the Law on the financing of units of regional and regional self-government that was yesterday. And the other thing, which is about not having the courage of this government, to pass the right Regional Development Act, then the Law on Areas of Special State Care should not be required, nor should the Island Act, because it was simply to be incorporated into the Regional Development Act and directed towards withdrawing funds from the EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93400	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93401	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you were talking about an increase in income, and as far as I now understand this economic terminology, it would have been achieved in a way to make a lot of withdrawals from the EU. And now in that part, especially I get what's coming into my eyes when it says that the agricultural budget is going up a billion and 650 million. And now that I've pointed out problems in agriculture here, maybe it's better to say he's been trying to hear the yawn of Croatian villages, I'd be the first one to clap on it now to see how well in our agriculture there would be a lot of resources now, etc., if it wasn't for him and who. And first, here we are today, I'm sure 10 O.P.G.s are going to fail. Those who have not yet failed will surely be 10. And secondly, if that moment is known in the morning that we were effective this last year, I don't think there's much reality and great optimism. And third, if you think about what it's like to think about these rural development measures, and it's not like it's going to go that fast and when you're going to compete and everything. I'm afraid that's not promising either. And now I'm telling my neighbor Tami Vini to the farmer, I'm telling him you know what Wine is going to be this year, this year it's going to be a lot more foam for agriculture. And he says to me, my representative, "That's what she played on your willow." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93402	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93403	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinkovic, you said well that she played it on the willow, but perhaps it would be better for that long stick and carrot. Because when you look at the wording of the budget on page 20. "It is said that the expenditures of subsidies amount to 6.1 billion kuna, which is 357 million more." etc. However, he says, "For direct payments to farmers, measures to regulate the agricultural products market and rural development measures." It is important to note that this increase in subsidies in agriculture is financed from EU funds. So it's up to someone else again, and it's gonna be big if, big if. And unfortunately, first of all, it was well cut off by Croatian agriculture and now if they are not satisfied, then the same minister who cut off their funds will tell them that you are unable to withdraw funds from EU funds as you listened to yesterday from the Deputy Prime Minister that units of local self-government are incompetent, that they do not know how to withdraw funds from EU funds, and the only ones that are as successful in withdrawing funds from EU funds are units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93404	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93405	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have warned of the fact that Croatia will certainly not be able to withdraw the funds provided for them in the European funds next 2015, that is correct. For 3 years, we have actually warned the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is not working enough and that it is not working quality to prepare for the withdrawal of funds from European funds. We had one argument here that it's about the software not working and that's true, it's just not exactly what was meant by that software. The vice president of Greece spoke about the information tool, and in fact this software is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And she didn't work, she didn't do everything she needed to do. And here we have information from yesterday that, that 350 experts will be employed to strengthen and restore the capacities that would actually be used to withdraw funds from the European Fund. However, as we said three years ago, we clearly say today, those 350 people who will be hired are not finished experts who know all the problems of withdrawing funds, because those experts who worked in ministries who knew the problem were simply removed from those places and from these jobs. And that's why this situation happened where we weren't really ready at all, we haven't withdrawn funds since last 2013, nor will we be able to withdraw them until we get all the tools we need, and of course there's accreditation, there's competitions that need to be carried out. So simply, the government did not approach in the right way, and today we have huge problems because these are the funds that were meant to serve to have economic growth. And unfortunately, the prime minister here today is wasting his spins instead of gossiping about real questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93406	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93407	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Matušić, this is a typical example of not transparency. Because as long as the Deputy Prime Minister could mess with pre-accession funds, the EU funds, and show it in the latest reports, it was nominally looking at it somehow for those who don't know. However, now that the time has passed when it can no longer be put into the same basket, it can be seen, it is practically seen in the rebalancing of this budget that it will not be able to withdraw 1 billion and 300 million. And when we talk about administrative capacity, the employment of 350 and 500 people were scheduled to take place in early 2012. People who would have studied and who would have practically been in early 2013. 100% worked and helped, above all, farmers who simply couldn't make themselves, and also smaller units of local self-government to direct them in the right way. Because Croatia's biggest problem is administrative capacity. To hire all institutes, everything is hard to make quality programs to withdraw all resources, but because of this administrative delay, I am unfortunately 2016, not going to be in a position to withdraw 600 million euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93408	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93409	Thank you very much. So here's the theme of European funds is really one of the crucial ones when it comes to the years that come, of course, in 2015 is still. And that's where you mentioned and doubted everything the predecessors used to say. Unfortunately, you've realized that even these 7 billion on which the government accounts in the budget is doubtful for several reasons, primarily because we don't see where the home component is secured, but even more tragically, it hasn't been prepared administratively or regulatoryly. So, we have established and today we are aware that only one of the documents necessary to attract funds, that is this partnership agreement where these 20 billion euros are announced, 10 billion euros for the next 2014-2020, but today we do not know what status the operational programmes are already in place for 2014 and let alone for 2016. So this is about one inability to even write basic documents without talking about administrative capacity. It's just about the state, and where there's a private sector that can actually only expect that financial injection from the funds. Why aren't the competitions being discussed, why aren't there still no regulations, why are there no operational programs and when will that happen in general? We have been trying to find out from the government's representatives for several days, but none of them have ever said that before. What's really going on? Except for these glamorous announcements? However, what can be seen specifically in the budget, which shocks, say the Ministry of Economy predicted for 33 million in next year for the cost of the dispute with MOL and in 2016 16 million. So what they're going to do is, they're still going to stand trial and get hooked up with a strategic partner around INA and about MOL because they're already predicting 50 million kunas for the costs of the dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93410	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93411	Thank you very much. Col. Popijač, you have actually opened the right question because when we analyse what is foreseen by the increase in funds in the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development, then we will see that this is all about EU funds, and given that, by best..., we can only get accreditation somewhere in the 7th and 8th months, if these funds are not withdrawn, then the question is that... the item is both on the income side, so the government is based on this economic growth of 0 and a few percent? It is practically, at this very moment we can say that it is on air-conditioned feet and that unfortunately again at the end of next year all international financial institutions and the European Commission will warn us that we have been bad forecasters again and we have to correct our budget, but unfortunately it is again several tens of thousands of lost jobs and it is another tens of thousands of young Croats who are going to leave Croatia where unfortunately they are offered nothing but hopelessness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93412	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93413	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Shuker, and I will repeat that you said that this is the most innovative budget proposal in the last 25 years, so I will add, in addition, that the data in this 2014 budget proposal are not the ones we adopted with rebalancing 2 days ago, but it's the data from the first rebalance that was in April, so that the growth indexes or the decline of certain positions in the state budget can't compare at all because something that on the income side, some item is growing, it's actually falling because the budget rebalance is reduced and so is with the expenditure side. So, this comparison information is absolutely invalid, unnecessary, it is actually guilty and brings the public and us MPs astray because in the meantime the Croatian Parliament put out the budget rebalancing of April, which is still the basic indicator here for the current year. It is, on the one hand, that this budget shows what we are persistently saying, and that in recent days, the government has made further centralisation of incomes to... units of local self-government, not that it has not reduced the powers and tasks that have been in the works of units of local, or regional self-government, but has increased them by a number of laws this year. So, on the one hand, we increased their obligations, and on the other hand we reduced their incomes. And third things, do you see Mr. Shucker in the budget of the Croatian Roads Pelješki bridge? In fact, about a year ago, at this time, Mr. Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister announced that the Pelješki Bridge will start in the spring of 2015. I see these expenditures for the construction of the Peljega Bridge in the budget of the Croatian Roads, not only not to see, but I still do not know what the position of the Government is, since the European Commission has apparently not yet adopted a view on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93414	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93415	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bacic, I'll start with this last one. If I'm not mistaken when the decision is changed on... those 60 drops of excise duty on fuel, then it's said to be given 20 lips to HZ and 20 lips to Croatian roads, with them working hard to maintain the construction of roads that are their jurisdiction. However, if I am not mistaken, the budget is reduced by 700 million. And who does that hit again? He's hitting local self-government again. And I'm not going to talk about HZ at all because all these guarantees, these billions that have been given over the past 3 years, are going to have to be included in the government budget deficit next year under ESI 2010. So that's it. And as for the transparency of the budget, look when you have incomparable and income and expenditure, then it's logical that this budget is non-transparent. But regardless of what you've changed certain positions, you can explain those positions in the clarification of the state budget, bring each other closer so that the person you are interested in can compare certain data. And then it can serve you as a basis for managing both fiscal and economic policies because if you don't have comparable data, if you can't practically switch them over, which is said to be one over the other and see their effects, then your ability and data that you have analytically to conduct proper economic and fiscal policies are unfortunately guilty and therefore this government definitely doesn't have any economic policy, and their fiscal policy is catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93416	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93417	Comrade Shuker, I'm going to refer to a few things from your debate that I'd really like to talk to you in an argument rather than politically... or as you like to say, we don't have any political bickering. So you're attributing us to 200 grand less employees and 70 billion new public debt. As an economist, you know very well that it's not all about responsibility and it can't be just our responsibility. So if we try to quantify that responsibility then actually your part of responsibility would be incomparably greater than ours for at least two reasons. So, because from 2009 to 2011, so in the last 3 years your government simply had a 10% economic downturn, it's a fact, like... He was 10% in those 3 years, and in the last 3 years of government, so from 2012 to 2014 only 2%. Also, you've been doing several years of payment delays that you've been talking about accumulated during your government. Unfortunately, they turn out to be skeletons from the closet outside the moment the power changes and that just happened. As for 200 thousand unemployed, I remind you once again as an economist, you must know that for a long time we will have at least 200 thousand unemployed because it is a figure that speaks of unemployable people, therefore, about unemployable citizens who unfortunately are 1990s when in the process of conversion and privatisation you have given to some people companies who have ruined them, and then these people have indeed stayed on the road and there is no work for them anymore. As for structural reforms, I must remind you that you have had much more time than we have for structural reforms, with your time being incomparably more favourable for reforms. I remind you, from 2004 to 2008, you had an average economic growth somewhere slightly lower than 5%. So we will implement reforms, we have started them and in the second term you will see what that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93418	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93419	counterpart Jelash, if reforms had not been implemented, Croatia would not have entered the EU to clear up, have been implemented, reforms have not been implemented. The second thing, neither I nor Croatia would have won the World Bank's Top 10 Reformers Award in 2008 if it hadn't been for reforms, is facts. 2008 before the crisis, the deficit was 0.8, the 2010 and 2011 deficits were added to shipbuilding. I've told this deficit of yours if the HH and the ones you gave are over 23, 24 billion. But just a little bit, too, when we talk about the debt of health, I did because of my calm conscience and you and yourself have suggested a conclusion on behalf of the club that we are finally presented with the state of that health. Why? I'll just tell you something, in 2004, when the budget was 80 billion kuna was minus in health care was 7.5 billion, and then it was dragged like this, and then something came up, and then the HDZ ministers said one thing, so that today, Col. Milinovic would ask the Minister of Finance a direct question, is the truth giving a debt in healthcare 10 billion, you understand. So I suggested that conclusion for all of us because, to be clear, all the finance ministers were always desperate because they didn't know what the state of health was, these are facts. To say that in this 70 billion debt is our big part, you can talk about 2012, maybe in part 2013, but in 2013 mostly in 2014, 2015 exclusively your consequences of inaction. If you had implemented certain structural reforms, if you had the courage to do it, believe me, we wouldn't be in this situation, believe me. But when you're back in 2010, then I'm even more sure that everything I've said about this budget is more than justified and more than standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93420	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93421	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Shuker, my replica will be the same in terms of withdrawing funds from the EU funds. You have expressed yourself in your debate in terms of guilt for insufficient withdrawal of funds, you said the administration of the government, I must admit that it is not clear to me exactly what you mean because when we talk about the administration of the government in the broadest sense in which I see it and I understand it was not created overnight, it has been growing for many years. The fact is that some people from that administration have gone to the private sector due to better conditions and the fact that there are not enough people in that section to do so. However, when talking about withdrawing funds from the EU, we must take the whole sector, so the whole public and private sector. When we talk about the entire public sector, I mean local self-government units. Of course, they have the greatest potential to withdraw funds and in that sense, and there is an opportunity to do so. We must not forget the regional agencies that are developing, whether county, or cities, let the agencies do their job well for some bad. So, for example. A sensitive agency I've heard is doing a good job. But he's got an example. In my county, the agency that doesn't do its job very well. So these people need to be helped and if in this sense you criticize the government administration, and you think of a broader context then you really should see what you do in the future because I say the administration didn't even come overnight. The vice president of the government yesterday at the hearing... The development said and it specifically made me think that it's actually the key to the whole story that the relief fund is going to be set up means that part of co-financing because we have the most problems here. We have problems when there's money and when there's no money. [[You don't get the story too fast.]] The direct aids that often went on did not reach their goal. And as far as 200 thousand jobs are concerned, I'm going to point out again maybe it's already boring, but again, I'm stressing 205,000 workers have been working, and it hasn't been getting paid, huge tax debts, great indifference, and that wheel is rolling and of course there's been consequences that you're talking about, and you don't want to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93422	Thank you. Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93423	Just look at how many companies you have today that don't pay your salary, so we don't comment on it anymore because I wasn't talking about jobs here, I was talking about the number of employees, so people who worked. And that's the information that came from your government, I didn't invent it, and they probably took it from someone else. And as far as the EU funds are concerned, look, Comrade Sagar, we can convince each other as much as we want. In the budget rebalancing, EU funds have been cut by a billion and 300 million. Why is the emphasis given for EU funds? So when you look at all the economic ministries, all the reforms that should be implemented are practically based on EU funds, and now it is evident that for several months we have been coughing for certain agreements to be signed and it is evident that the issue of when accreditation will come. So these are the facts, so we can talk here in one way or another, the budget rebalance 2014 clearly says, 4 and 600 were planned, and 3 and 400 will be withdrawn and we will see how much more and now suddenly that amount is said to more than 7 billion kuna. But look at these funds go to the highest of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture and Regional Development, and what happens if these funds don't pull back, where we get economic growth and how much unemployment we're going to have. And when you look at it, it's not my invention, look at what your colleagues in the Fiscal Commission write to you, and they're just pointing out that this budget and the entire government's policy are too much relying on EU funds. This is written by people who are not in HDZ, independent economic experts, and who you ultimately chose not to be us. We have supported this Fiscal Commission and we simply believe that this independent body must exist and must be an aid to parliamentarians during the debate in the state budget. But for the second time they give a negative opinion on the budget, however, you continue to vote in favour of the budget and defend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93424	Hope Cavlović Smiljanec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93425	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, in your debate, you pointed out that the 2015 budget was missed and that we are returning with that budget in 2011. I say no, God forbid. In 2012, when this government took over this country's tax debt, which was €52 billion. It means credit and that's what's left of your reign for the past eight years. 25 billion kunas were debts... taxpayers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that in these three years as far as tax revenues are concerned, this government has made a major step forward, has put order in the payment of revenue. I must say that despite the recession and the crisis that is in the Republic of Croatia every year, VAT is charged a billion kunas more than what is in charge. You fellow Shuker know very well what the monthly VAT duties mean and what the net payments mean. Tax administration means over a billion kuna over a year, you know that old VAT you couldn't charge. And when we talk about budget projections for 2015 what the minister said and what the prime minister said, this budget is real, it is feasible. 800 million kuna more VAT next year will be charged. In what way? With better tax discipline, the establishment of a special office as said by the finance minister established by the Ministry of Tax fraud, Croatia has become a serious oasis for tax fraud by entering the European Union in 2013. And that will be done by experts and people who know this system because you know that there is a VIES system that is an international data exchange that needs to be monitored along with our application system. You also want to reduce the importance that this government has doubled its basic personal deduction twice over the last 3 years which means specifically immediately [[Thank you very much. Thank you, time.]] The increase in wages, this latest change of laws, means an increase in salaries by a million Croatian citizens. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] And I can't believe [[Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93426	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica My colleague Cavlović, time has passed, time has passed. [[Cavlović Smiljanec: I can't believe it, and I can't believe it, just don't come in, I'm sorry. Just one second.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93427	Fiscalization, fiscalization, I can't believe you're talking about fiscalization that was at the Ministry of Finance. In 2012, it was introduced... Tax administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93428	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93429	You took 10 seconds from me. It's a good thing you said this all together because you published a list of debtors. What did you charge for? ... A million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're administratively... This. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will openly tell you here in front of this Parliament and in front of the Croatian public, there has never been a greater mess in the tax administration than it is now, never, ever. You hired people, we talked about it, it was the Tax Administration Act, and now you've appointed this law for employment that was illegal. The other thing, don't brag about the projects that started long ago and the luck of fellow Linic is he has the courage to finish some things but also the technological opportunities. That there were certain irregularities far from it, but don't say there aren't any today. And don't blame someone like that all the time. Because if this was all you guys said was true, then the revenue side of the budget would look completely different. We wouldn't have to return health contributions to 15% again, we wouldn't have to take units of local self-government 2 billion. Well, look at yourself for God's sake, you're talking about some kind of success. Well, if that's true what you're saying, then taxes would be reduced, they wouldn't increase. But I repeat never a major disturbance in the tax administration. You've reached your political-like staff who've never worked in the IRS. And that's a fact and that's the truth. And what anyone who wants well for this country has to stand up for the depolitisation of the tax administration. Out of tax administration policy, let's train experts to do their job. But, no, it didn't work out that way. This law is, I repeat what I said during the debate and I answer for it, I will not mention names because these people are not guilty. They were named for being dependent on those who appointed them, to carry out their will, wishes and orders, and even tax persecution for those who needed them, above all HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93430	Vice President Branko Greek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93431	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, or distinguished deputies. I can tell my colleagues and colleagues because I've been elected to the Parliament myself, so don't be angry. So I would just like to look back on one single question and shed some light on the situation around the EU funds. This information that's being posted today isn't accurate again. So I have to tell you, here I will really inform you firsthand about the current state without any beauty, without any beauty, just for the record. So far, all pre-accession funds and 450m euros that we have received for the second half of 2013 are a total of a billion and 200m euros in money. At this point, 900m euros and 75% respectively were agreed. So, of the total money from that period, 75% contracted. And that's the current situation. The problems aren't as much in the bargain as they are in the implementation. So I'm very clearly saying the problems are in implementation, and that's why this 2014 data is about to be corrected through the rebalancing figure that will be realised this year. It is a postponement of public tenders or cancellation of certain public tenders, a large number of complaints that postpones 3 and 4 months of completion of the competition, problems with construction firms in the conduct of the business, unfortunately our companies go into bankruptcy, that is the situation currently in construction. Construction is still falling and we can't get it out because construction debt is 167% of the total revenue generated by the construction sector on an annual basis. So all those who have ties to the economy know what this means and what this is a burden and why we have problems implementing projects. Let's move on, programming. As for programming, we've done a huge job for those half a year ago, so all these strategic and operational documents we had to bring in for those half a year and then immediately start programming for 7-year illnesses in '14-20. Unlike all other European Union countries, we do double jobs in a year. Double business. And now look, despite this, our partnership agreement as a roof strategic document has been adopted in the last week of the old commission with nine old member states, so we haven't been a bit late, but we've entered into a circle of those dignitaries that have been using eu funds for 10, 15, 20 years and have a huge experience. As for the operational programmes, I was on the GAC two days ago, so the General Affairs Council of the European Commission, which had one single topic, which was cohesion. There, the Commissioner for Cohesion Policy said that by the New Year, only 50% of all 170 operational programmes in Europe will be adopted with great effort at the moment. And now I'm going to tell you that three days ago we were loading the biggest operational program. What does it mean to load? So we agree with... so our directorate has all the details on it and when they say that you can load, we've loaded into the system and now we're moving the adoption procedure hopefully until New Year's. It is the procedure of the European Commission. So nothing depends on us anymore, and this operational programme carries 70% of the total 8.4 billion euros in that part of the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, which will be managed by the Ministry of Regional Development over the next 7 years. So we have done a huge job again and among the first third of all operational programmes in the European Union is our operational programme. One reserve from now on until New Year's Eve continues to depend on the European Commission, not on us anymore. As far as rural development is concerned, I must also say that for rural development and generally for the common agricultural policy, regulation was delayed in the European Union, which is why the European Union has allowed Member States to base themselves on earlier programmes, measures and objectives, which means that certain objectives of the IPARD programme and certain measures are now being implemented in Croatia, limited measures and will be implemented throughout 2015. So I'll tell you later on when I get a chance to tell you another part of this story because I have a lot more to do with administrative capacity and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93432	Thank you very much. We've got replicas, so you might be able to say that. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93433	I don't know, I'd really like to know exactly how much of this money we're pulling. Here, the benefit of the European Union to me, I am no Eurosceptic, so so far it has been small or better said in the first year almost nothing. From 1.7.2013 to 1.7.2014, we invested 537m euros in Brussels in Europe, we withdrew 575m euros plus 38m euros. Where's the biggest problem? Our priorities are set by Bruxeless, we don't set priorities for ourselves, we run for ourselves, we spread that money to be used by the Croatian Government, left, right, this or not know which, incomparably, would simply invest better. On 31.12.2013, a total of 254m euros were allocated, we withdrew 418.3m euros for IPA 1 and Nuclear Security of Membership 160m, for IPA 2 cross-border cooperation 10.8m euros, for transport 58.9m euros, environmental protection 59m, regional competitiveness 38, human potential development 44 and IPA 5 Rural development 44.8m euros. So until 31.12.2013. 418 million euros. And what he's saying is, in a way, that Europe de facto is funding itself through our resources, not to help us. I know, I'm not a Eurosceptic, we don't have a choice, but I think there's some things I need to change. I'm not going to say that in Istria, disaster, rural competitiveness we're pulling 0.8%, human potential development 2.7, rural development come on 11.7, cross-border cooperation de facto zero kuna, we didn't pull anything for traffic. When I say traffic, I mean ports,...in Pula, railway, Buzet, Pula, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93434	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93435	So let's keep arguing about the eu funds. Today, we obviously need to clear that up. So it must be clear to you that the use of the funds is according to rule n+3, so in one year you negotiate and then three years after that money you've agreed to spend. So people especially at the beginning of the financial period, look at Romania, look at Bulgaria, look at the new members from 2007, look at those new members from 2004 and look at their absorption in the first year of membership and compare it with Croatia, and you will see that Croatia is better this year, for the 6 months 2013 where we started using the money. That's what this is about. So it's impossible, we now have the data you know for which years, for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. Why do we have data for those years, and they're all above 95% absorption. Because they're running out of n+3 right now. You understand? It's only now that three years have elapsed in which they could spend that money. So for 2013 we will measure how much we managed to absorb at the end of 2016. For this 2014 which you are talking about, we will measure at the end of 2017. They're such rules and they're such procedures and it's reality. So you can't look at absorption that way. I know we still have a lot to learn about EU funds. And I, on my part, will make a full contribution really to having a very open discussion and in peace discuss all these topics and ultimately to learn. I've been studying, too, all these years. And before I came to this function and these three years when I'm in office. Therefore, we all need to know how the process is going in order to understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93436	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93437	Dear Vice President of the Government, in order not to make everything else in the Ezopian language, I'm going to ask you about some concrete projects and certainly you won't recognize in this evil as your boss recognizes any evil in any matter and responds in an evil language. First of all, what about the investments? First the government announced you know well on the big bells that will be built, first projected, built a railway of the Hungarian border to Rijeka. What's with the railroad? It's where it's come from. It has been said that up to 80% of the cost of this project and construction can be withdrawn from European funds. Where did we come from? People just think we gave it up. So what's been done with that project? You've been talking about the problems you're facing in the business, and it's nice to learn and learn for the rest of your life. However, what does the government do to remove problems? Now you get the impression, you hire 300 and some people to work on withdrawing money from EU funds, which is commendable. Why didn't that happen in the first year of office? Why aren't the railway projects made in the first year of office, so we already have some results. Which makes him feel. Maybe we're wrong. Maybe you'll explain that he's late in everything. What makes him late if he's late? Because you can't talk after three years of government behavior about HDZ being guilty. This HDZ has nothing to do with this. So, how long it's been in all these projects. There was talk of investing in energy. How far did it go with energy investments? What's the matter, it's all stopped. There were talk of investments that HEP would be a trigger. Why isn't HEP a trigger? Croatian forests. What about the Croatian forests? We're exporting the logs. I mean, nobody from the government ever talks about concrete things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93438	Vice President Branko Greek, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93439	I really thank you for this question and for this opportunity to make things very clear. Railways remain a key priority and are also included in the Partnership Agreement and in the operational programme. For the time being, it has been processed in corridor 5b only in project terms and has lasted 4 years. So it started early in the government, and now complete project documentation has been completed, a public tender launched. The first public tender fell, so there was a mistake in the procedure itself, and now we have repeated the competition and in the first month we expect to complete the process and negotiate 220m euros worth of Dugo Selo – Križevci shares. However, it is only one share on that vast vertical from Rijeka to the Hungarian border. Everyone else, we don't have any other shares, unfortunately. But in these three years, we have agreed with partners from Europe to make project documentation for all those shares, all those shares. You know how long those contracts are? At three to four years each contract, because it is simply not possible to design projects in a shorter time, so project documentation, environmental impact study, buy land because there is no entry into the project until the land on the track is bought, etc. etc. So, the average duration of project preparation in railways on such serious shares costing between 300m and 500m euros each, as it was broken into several sub-projects is not less than three to four years. And so do the colleagues who used to run the government, and I know that I've learned it in these three years that faster simply in that part can't. So some government behind us is going to enjoy this part of the preparation that we're doing right now. But it's all going away. That's important. I'll just list the projects that, and then we'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93440	Thank you very much. You'll do that later. Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93441	Thank you very much. Mr. Greek, what you just said is just one more piece of evidence that we have entered the EU quite unprepared as a state, and for five years we have looked at European funds as calves in a white door. But what I'm interested in isn't the past, it's 2015. The budget for next year is one of the main anchors for the implementation of the budget: the European funds 7 billion and 200 million. One of the most important anchor points of that budget. From the experience of countries that have been successful or even more successful in withdrawing these funds, so these 7 billion and 200 are intended to enter the budget, not to be negotiated in 2015 but to enter the budget. So the experiences of these countries show that you are successful, or you can be successful, provided that you have about 20, minimum 25% compared to the planned funds you plan to withdraw from European funds in the national component of your own resources. Billion and 800, that's a billion 800 we should have. Where's that billion and 800? Not in the state budget. Of course, it's not just about state projects. Yesterday you said it was a lot of local projects. Whether the local community, you just assume or know, or is again just looking at the crystal ball, that the local community, municipalities and cities, the county along with the state will be able to provide these billions and 800 as a minimum for the achievement of these revenue sides of 7 billion and 200. That's the key. We let go of this history. I'm no longer interested in N plus 3, or writing programs or buying land. We're on schedule by 2015. You suggested 7 billion and 200, 25% where is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93442	Thank you. Replication response, Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93443	Here I think it will be complementary and the answer will be partly to the earlier question and the answer to your question. So what goes into 2015 is, first of all, a billion and a half unrealised in 2014 and that's something that's definitely going on because it's already done on the ground, you know. And then we add another bridge of Ciovo 30m euros approved, so in the tender procedure, the Kaštela bypass 20m euros, Dubrovnik Airport 250m euros of which EU funds will be co-financed at least 180m euros. Now listen to this, local self-government Osijek 70m euros, Poreč 60m euros, Vukovar 50m euros, County 30m euros, Čakovec 30m euros, Vodice 10m euros, all water supply projects where we are best prepared. And from this pay phone here too, I think, I don't normally look back on reactions, I can't look back, but I'm very sorry that colleagues from Osijek where practically 25 million kunas will be invested through EU funds of 500 million for the water supply network and the drain to react in this way. Well, that's a fact, that's a project we've already agreed on, he's in the process. We were at the project opening together, and now it's like I'm saying I don't know what. So really funny. Let's move on. Mariscina, Kaštjun two waste dumps that are in the final phase and which we will probably open at the beginning of next year when they get a useful permit. They are going to Biljane Donja in Zadar County for 50m euros in the project. So, a bunch of projects, and just a second, so these are all practically state projects and major projects of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93444	Thank you. So we'll continue, Vice President, we'll proceed. Comrade Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93445	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, you said a bunch of projects are ready and I accept all the arguments you say. And let's say that's the case. But then what is the recapitulation when this budget is adopted for next year and the projection for 2016 and 2017? How much will Croatia invest in the EU by 2017 and how much will it withdraw from the EU? What is the final result of all these huge projects? It's missing in the analysis. You also said you needed to study all the time. I couldn't agree more. But you said someone rated you to be an asset in the use of EU funds. I don't know who rated it, if you mean experts from the Committee on Fiscal Policy, then they don't think so. They say on the budget that the budget is non-transparent, that it is impossible to assess which fiscal rule will apply in 2016 and 2017 because there is no operational plan of the Government, that there is an extremely high risk and unknowns on the side of income, that the particular risk is high on the achievement of revenue from EU assistance, just what is based on potential underestimation of expenditure is also. You also said the construction sector went completely down. I agree with that. And that he's immobilized. And I agree with that. But instead of unloading it, you additionally charged it with 25% of the VAT on construction land. Then how can we expect a butterfly to be put on a horseshoe to take off? Instead of unloading, we have put additional pressure on the construction sector. And we can't encourage the construction sector at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93446	Replication response, Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93447	I'll keep going and it'll be clear where these seven billion are coming from. So we've already told a billion and a half that it's being transferred unrealised from 2014, and then there's another 5.5 billion new projects that are being implemented in that year. So, in all these projects that I mentioned earlier, it's not 800 million kuna from the Ministry of Entrepreneurship that goes directly to entrepreneurs in the competition that will be opened in January as far as I hope next year. There is not a billion and 200 million cca going for the first time in 2015 for rural development, so for small infrastructure rural, municipal, social, etc. So, the first time we're going with that. 600 million kuna from the Ministry of Labour and the pension system that goes directly to employment. You remember that two weeks ago, the government made a decision that even that compensation so far that was 1600 kunas raised to 2400 and that in this way, in fact, from the EU funds increased the salary to say conditionally for all these young people we employ through that measure. I'll just tell you by now 14,000 companies have hired 47,000 people through this measure. It's a great thing, and we have to support it together. Let's move on. 250 million kuna next year should go for 15 projects that we have agreed for units of local self-government, so my ministry, through the BREE programme so-called, which is business and innovation. So, tourism and business infrastructure where practically there are colleagues, here's Mr. Hrg, let's say he arranged 32 million kuna for his city with us, with this ministry of mine. And in the following year, this investment goes into realisation as another 14 projects worth between 20 million and 40 million kuna. So, on all sides, huge jobs are people. And she'll be happy, I'm telling you the government that comes behind us will be happy with the preparation we've made and all of what we've agreed on in this time and what we'll arrange in 2015 until the end of the term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93448	We've got a vice president. We've got more replicas. Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93449	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for this information that you just gave about the Long Village-Kriszevci railway, because for the first time I've heard of this railway since Mrs. Kosor was prime minister, she announced her construction from European funds, and here we hear that in the first month, it will probably be the competition that will be completed and set off for realisation. I reported in fact because of your belief that money will succeed in withdrawing from rural development measures and I don't share that belief and that faith, or I'd be willing to bet, unfortunately, and I'd probably get a bet, that it wouldn't withdraw that money because we have an incompetent minister who doesn't know how to do it. So 377 of these comments for the fifth time, for the fifth time, not twice, we didn't get two corrections, five corrections, these are the fifth corrections, we didn't do it. So don't run in there because you'll turn out to be the person who's saying something that won't be realized because your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, won't be able to do it. And in that part, the budget must be unreal and we'll be denied that money again. But since you've been talking about concrete projects, so I'm going to ask you for some further explanations, because there's nothing to read from the budget, it's all in the trunks, so I'm going to ask you if you have any information about what's going on with the construction of the Podravska Y towards Koprivnica and Bjelovar, since that road to Bjelovar has come in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of the field, and now it's stopped there, you don't know what's going to be further. I'm also interested in what will happen with the agglomeration of the Križevci because we're running out of building permits, which I warned us will highlight the building permits under the old law, i.e. the new law does not allow for extension, but Minister Mrak Taritash will not change that, one sentence in the law to save it and we'll have all the problems with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93450	Thank you. Vice President Branko Greek, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93451	Yes, what I can agree with, so that's what I've been saying in public and these days in a comment, 7 billion kuna worth of EU budget components plus domestic components, means almost 8 billion kuna. So, once again, I stress a very ambitious plan. However, he speaks with how much Croatia currently has the potential for 2015. Why could we have planned it like that? So, we talk very openly, he had nothing to lie to me about. So this tells you that there are projects some agreed and some pre-arranged, and the potential for spending that money. The final result will again depend on the efficiency of the implementation. And here let's be quite clear, so this is, if it were like this year with all these problems we have, we can realistically expect that execution will still be something lower than the plan itself. But from the budgetary point of view, I assure you, or you are aware, that the EU component does not affect the deficit. So it equally appears on the income and distribution side and is practically neutral compared to the deficit, except for the domestic component, and the domestic component is 700 million, the domestic component is quite conservatively planned, which means at 10% of the EU funds level or if you want a little less than total investment, which means that we have reserves there. Because the stake should be bigger. So the domestic component should be even bigger to cover all costs related to financing these EU funds investments. It's a bill. So you see potential on one side. The government, and local self-government, counties, NGOs, businesses, most importantly all must be involved in this process and on all of them, and not only on the government, depending on whether or not we will withdraw these money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93452	Thank you. And the Djuro Drinker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93453	Thank you very much. So, you mentioned the vice president's partnership agreement is 8 billion for cohesion, and of course it still stands 2 billion and 380 million for rural development. For 2014 it was provided for 380, 2015 330, 2016 330, so in 3 years, one of which is already at the end of a billion euros. These are the funds that should mostly go to agriculture, therefore to the OPGs, material assets companies and other projects. However, our colleague Hrg has already mentioned, we have today, and we do not know what is going on, they are still learning or information that the Croatian programme has been rejected, i.e. over 370 remarks by the European Commission on the programme. On 20.10., a meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture was held where people from the Ministry of Agriculture said that competitions for these measures, measure 4, would be announced by the end of November, i.e. by the beginning of December. Yesterday, there was a meeting on a Zagreb county where a representative, a senior official of the Ministry of Agriculture, said he did not know when he would be, or did not say anything, silenced the question of interested potential investors and investors that he believes are relatively large and waiting for those funds. And he said he didn't know when the rules would be called, because they're afraid to call the rules because it doesn't know when rural development will be accepted, it was a surprise, in which case he can expect even that it will have to finance the Croatian budget, which is completely incorrect. So there's one complete incompetence, one ignorance, we definitely don't have information about what these measures are waiting for, when they're going to start calling, and when people can start preparing their projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93454	Thanks, buddy. Replication response, Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93455	Here's the thing. So EU funds in a broader sense consist of 3 components, 8.4 billion euros are a structural cohesion fund, this is a special story. So agriculture, direct support, direct payments plus rural development is known to be the second component and the third component is the fisheries programme, 250m euros. So this component for agriculture and rural development is about 2 billion euros. My direct responsibility is for that first component. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture of which, of course, I, as Vice-President of the Government, take account of it, and I repeat again, means, regardless of the delay with the adoption of the rural development programme, because of this delay at EU level, the EU has adopted provisional measures and made it possible, once again, for the objectives and priorities and measures of rural development from the previous period, and for us to use the pre-accession... programme, also in 2014 and 2015, until the adoption of these rural development programmes. If it hadn't been for that, then Minister Jakovina wouldn't have booked any money to do so, so he's exactly left an allocation he's entitled to in 2015. I'm talking about the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and all of those units of local self-government that they're going to seek and receive funds for rural development to implement this, I'm not going to talk today. So that's the reserve I've already expressed. It depends on the ability of them as partners to be quick, efficient to take that money, but the money is there, the programs are there, or competitions can be launched already now and there is no problem. And in the meantime, the rural development programme will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93456	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93457	Fellow vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, ministers, co-workers. There, we broke the record, the second club in a row in the debate managed to get in half two in a row, that's the highlight of the work. Says the Prime Minister, trust us on the word budget is sustainable and realistic. In order to believe the word on the sustainability and reality of the budget, it is necessary to compare the real macroeconomic evaluations of the Government so far, i.e. the proponents of that budget. And after I've done that, I've decided that you have serious problems with either a crystal ball or you're relying on those seven skinny and seven fat cows. Why? In macroeconomic projections for 2015 household consumption, growth 0.2, state consumption -1, gross fixed capital investments +1.6, exports +3.6, imports +3.5. Their contribution to the planned GDP increase of 0.5%, household consumption 0.2, state consumption -0.2, gross fixed capital investments +0.3, exports 1.7 to plus and imports -1.5. You add up the plus and minuses, you get 0.5% of the contribution, GDP growth of 0.5. What was the government projected immediately before this projection, when it planned to drop by 0.7%? Household consumption -0.6, state -1.7, gross investments -3.8, exports increase 5.6, imports 3.7. And the previous macroeconomic projection when GDP was to grow 1.3%, the biggest contribution of GDP growth should have been fixed capital investments, an increase of 7.6 and their contribution of as much as 1.4%. Now, none of these macroeconomic projections have been realized, but the ones we've got now we have to believe they're real. Okay. The conditions for achieving this budget or anchor to which the draft budget is attached are therefore exports, the increase is 3.6, but I remind you that the projection is that it is -3.8 in '14, growth in '15. 1.6. 4 investment strategic projects, 3 state projects, 1 private ones should be compensated – up to + 1.6. Public private partnership as a model investment is no longer mentioned. Dead. Second anchor, EU funds. 7.2 billion. When I asked earlier how many national components, the vice president of Greece did not respond, but now later I realized that it was between 700 million and 800 million. 10%. ... Homemade, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ours, ours, ours. Good people in Europe say no 25% you won't take back what you planned. They don't know who did it, we who're just learning, we know that with 10% of the domestics, we're gonna get it out. Next anchor, household consumption +0.2, with -0.6 from '14, in '15. in an increase of 0.2. But what confuses me was supposed to be the result of a change in income tax. The VAT revenue in the following year increased by only 200 million, by 0.4%. So how is it going to increase household spending to make up for minus 0.6 and come to plus 0.2, and VAT revenues are only 0.4, so something in math is obviously not right. 105.2 billion operating incomes, billions and 100 revenues from the sale of non-financial assets or total incomes of 106.4 billion, total expenditures of 118.9 and negative and a lack of 12.5 billion. What is interesting is that income from income tax is planned by increasing at 35.8% higher. And now someone might think that so much higher income from income tax will be, and in fact it's about changing the funding of local self-government or centralizing 35.8% of income tax more than it was last year. I said that VAT plans to grow only 0.4%, in the EU funds again warns that without 25% of its own resources, it is difficult to realise the 7 billion and 200 plan. What is on the part of less losers in this budget, which everyone will support is both the Croatian Parliament and the Office of the Presidents of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The biggest winner of this budget is the State Office for State Property Management whose budget is increasing not by 47% but by 147%. What I was worried about was that after all the discussions and adoption of the Croatian Assembly report when we were warned that the Croatian judiciary, and specifically the Croatian State Attorney's Office not only lacks enough money to finance its own plant, God forbid we would hire something from experts who need it but also have huge debts for art and experts in the budget for the next year, the State's Attorney's Office has an increase in the budget by 200 thousand kuna or 0.8%, municipal and county state attorneys have less budgets by 3.2%, USKOK has a lower budget of 1.4%, and the Office for State Audit is less than 4%. So these warnings were written in their reports adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The bodies of surveillance and control and audit, which watches over 200 billion kunas of public money, are a body that needs to reduce the budget. A large number of investigations and expectations of curbing organised crime and corruption and zero tolerance on corruption are evident in reducing the budget of municipal and county state attorneys, USKOK, and the state's attorney's office is increasing from only 200,000. I wasn't counting the dishes. What is this message to that part of the government? What does that really mean? At the same time, increasing the costs of luxury private rentals. From the state budget I would say finally coming out of HZZ and what I had previously called semi-good news, now I can say that the good news that is now clear to everyone that in the coming year the state has to transfer to the Croatian Institute 2 billion of its obligations for the health insurance of unemployed, pensioners, defenders, children, students, students and older persons of 65 years. State health institutions are in the budget, so also in the treasury if I'm not wrong about 4 billion and some kuna, now we'll see a way of managing state health institutions, and I hope that it will finally come to the agenda and our proposal for a conclusion to consider the next problem. The Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Restitution of Institutions, primarily due to health care, at the time, the law stated that the debt of a health institution was 4.9 billion kuna. The 2014 budget provides a billion and 100 for old debts from earlier years and billions and 400 for health institutions' debts in 2013. And if I'm not mistaken, most of it's been realized. Where's a billion 700? Only according to this mathematics to resuscitate the debt of health institutions under the Law of Resuscitation of institutions. Where's that item, where's that money? So long, Mr. Greek, until we see these billions of 700 HZZO isolations that we welcome and with the financial plan that we've got here, we consider good, but we can't support the budget until a billion and 700 for the rehabilitation of health institutions is an item in the state budget. I remind you that the founders of the county disbursed the management rights of these health institutions by claiming that they were responsible for these losses and appointed the resolution managers, given 3.2 billion and stopped. Continuing, the follow-up is not seen in the budget and that is why I am apostrophealing, and now and in particular, we are looking for a debate on this. And when it comes to HZZO 22 billion and 53 million with revenues of 18 billion and 69 contributions, 2 billion and 400 transfers from the state budget and a billion and a half of their own, special revenues. Of those 22 billion for compulsory health insurance goes 17 billion and 600. And now all those health care spending critics in Croatia are getting to know or reminding me that in these 17 billion and 600 2 billion kunas go not for health care, treatment, care but for compensation. In these 2 billion are sickness benefits, maternity benefits and other benefits that go on. So basically for compulsory health insurance, for treating patients, health prevention actually goes 15 billion 600 million. And that's true. Voluntarily or additionally, it's at the height of a billion 380. And finally stick your finger to the budget and suggest... I think the Law on governance and availability of state property has given the Government full powers to manage and dispose of state property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And rarely that the Government in Europe has such powers. From that law, the government understood only what was available and turned it into sales and sales. And management of state property means that you will place it in the function of particularly real estate, buildings and spaces for your own needs, the needs of state and public administration, thereby reducing rent costs in private buildings. It's called good governance of your own property. But Mr. Greek, you don't manage state-owned property. You simply left her standing there and the spatial problems of your colleagues of ministers of boast and cynic when asked about it in public allow them to move to Zagreb's towers private property, long-term, not one-year obligations and contract conclusion and all remains that state property is failing. So I would kindly ask you, a little less worry about the availability and a little more management of state property because if you'd done it and prepared yourself in this year, in the following year you could save at least 600 to 700 million kuna from the title of rent. That's my finger that I'm pointing to waste in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93458	My colleagues and colleagues now have seven replicas. If you agree to do it before we take a break. Cresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93459	Thank you very much. You said that a public-private partnership in the Republic of Croatia died. I could, as a parliamentary representative, do what you do to the prime minister, believe in the word but I really can't, because as a parliamentary representative, I have sent and written a request for an answer whether a public private partnership has died or not in Croatia. Well, I guess the answer comes with a pigeon, so I haven't got it yet. But what you can see is that there is no investment in the Republic of Croatia and you said it yourself, it seems to me that there are four state and three private, all together seven. I think they're watching what this government is doing. I don't think we're gonna have any. But when we look at the European funds that the Minister of Greece spoke about earlier, then we can also say for the period 2014-2020 about the relationship as well as the public private partnership, we do not see the funds that are coming, but we can also say about the previous period that this government has not been able to bypass. For example, I worked for four years with my associates, I must confess with Croatian waters on the project collector Osijek worth 72m euros. And that's what this government couldn't avoid, that's co-financing at a certain amount. But seeing what happens to local administration units will no longer be able to finance projects in the coming years and the ministry has not left the funds to help these local administration units withdraw those funds that... They are located in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, a public private partnership has died, but we also do not find a chance in the European Union's funds when it comes to the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93460	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93461	Comrade Bubalo, please, when you get an answer, give me a copy so I can be informed. And I mentioned it for two reasons. The public private partnership model was one of the arguments at the time of the announcement of a major investment tsunami. The State budget states whether the Office or the Public Private Partnership Agency is. So given the amount of projects and these investments, the question arises if the government has given up this model of investment in what it, or the agency, seems to me to be the agency, what that agency, what they're doing here, how many projects a year go through. And if there are no projects there,... Please close Mr. Greek that agency because it is really unnecessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I noticed to my colleague Bubalo, never before in three years have so many representatives of the ruling coalition come to the bench when members of the government are here as in the last three days. The law on regional development, the Law on financing local and state budgets obviously have a damn great pressure on their people from the field and try... as much as possible, because that's what we're actually distracted by the debate and the members of the government from listening to what we're saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So give the men a fix on it outside in the hallway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93462	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93463	Thank you very much. Well, you were talking about losers in this budget, so, among other things, you mentioned the state's attorney's office, U.S.K.A., all those who need to take care of the repression of practically corruption and somehow follow it all together. I'll remind you of another office and that's the Office of the Commissioner for Information. It is required that 170 000 kuna be taken in that part of which is our part to finance a project already approved by the European Union, but obviously that this conversation, we could have taken him to our club because we could, too, the interlocutor on the other hand, obviously not. On the other hand, the explanation given by the Ministry of Finance on the board regarding the work of the Information Commissioner was really absurd. It was looking for space for her accommodation, about here's a colleague of Glavak who I think can confirm it was the answer. You're looking for space, there's so many agencies that are unnecessary, some of which you've mentioned now. Well, in Jurisic, until long she was the agency that declared itself incompetent for all the items she received, and two failed to settle on the way. You have now mentioned the work of DUDI, the management of state assets, or the availability. Honestly, that kind of relationship with some bodies that show good results doesn't make any sense to comment anymore, but obviously we don't have anyone because I honestly believe that no one on this side has listened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93464	You replicated your club and then they listen to you. Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93465	Comrade Novak, I hear that when our members of the government are out there they are praised that we also have an information commissioner as a major advance, and when it comes to providing money, there is simply no money. And maybe that's not an accident. It's about one body or person who should have been boasted, but obviously the goal is that it exists but that nothing works, and it's spent most effectively so that you don't give it money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93466	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93467	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Lesar, today we have heard about the separation of HZZO from Riznica, but I will agree with you and I am glad that you agree that this is a good thing, because there is a problem that usually occurs in Croatian society, which is a collective fear of change. But in this way, we give the possibility of change and we give the possibility of a three-way system that was really trom, that we actually have that improvement. There's an opportunity opening, so we're giving it a chance for a big responsibility. In fact, there is an open space for all these institutions to operate according to the right principles and responsibilities of the system. You also mentioned a recovery. In fact, this separation seeks to stop this recovery because we've had 16 resolutions in the last 20 years, and they've always been able to resuscitate the current expenditures that haven't been enough. And the limits that were in 2014 were low and now in 2015 they are increasing, increasing more than 8 billion kuna, but they are not enough either. But we can't just look at that part of how much we're giving, but we're looking at all the reform stuff that's going to happen along with that HZO separation from the Treasury. Well it's also a master's plan hospital, it's paying medical services to institutions by service, etc. Therefore, we can never look at one thing in particular, but we must also look at it in the context of the reforms that follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93468	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93469	Dear colleagues of Šimac-Bonačić, when the debate was over whether HZZO out or not and when it was agreed that I said it was semi-good news. We are waiting for the entry into force of the budget of national liability insurance under Article 72 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law, and only then will we be sure that's good. I told you about the pay phone, 2 billion 400 in the budget transfer to HZZO. That's good. This is now proof that the state in the budget fulfils the insurance obligations for the citizens it has legally given, and not insurance. To be clear, a billion-to-one debt recovery from earlier years is not a matter of any reform measures by a respected colleague. These are the debts to suppliers to be paid and there is no reform because if it were possible to resolve reform measures, and believe me, I know what I'm talking about because I've been doing this for seven years, the government wouldn't have specifically intervened, written 4.9 billion in '14. And '15. will be secured in the state budget. That's what the law says. There are no reform measures if you have to pay someone their dues, invoiced obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93470	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93471	I've heard some replicas here, so I'm going to say the same thing, this is the information committee, which we would need, but it just doesn't do any good. Public private partnership whatever anyone thinks is the most expensive form of investment. That's unfortunately true, although God forbid there are such investments, but that's not why I answered. With the State budget, the Ministry of Health loses, we see a billion kuna. I don't know how he's gonna survive it. They're left with 22 billion kunas. From the eu funds, I doubt we'll withdraw 7.1. billion kuna, and the deficit certainly won't be $12.5 billion, but closer to 18 or 19 billion, unless those supervisors that don't show up take down 5 billion. And now we see further on those items that the MUP runs out of 103 million kunas, defense without 142 million kunas, economy without 167 million kunas, agriculture without 157 million kunas, seafaring, links 174 million kunas, science 214 million kunas and health care clearly as I said a billion kunas. There is one good thing in this budget, however, which was introduced I would say at the last minute, and this is paying VAT taxes after bills were charged. So, all entrepreneurs whose total income in 2013 has not crossed, so 3 million kunas enter with relief clearly into that category, and such companies or such companies employ about 80, not such companies are 85238 and hire and now I don't know exactly around 161 000 people. Last-minute rescue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93472	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93473	Dear colleague Cain, I understand your dilemmas in both this and the previous replicas about the state budget. But I'm asking you to help me solve the same dilemma I have. Based on your discussions, I conclude that you are an opposition representative, and when you vote to be ruling. Since this dilemma has been bothering me for a year and a few days, let it be made public that you are the representative of the ruling coalition and you support that coalition or you are, playing the opposition advocate only in discussions and replicas, and you obediently and obediently vote in favour of everything that needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93474	And colleague Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93475	Thank you. Speaking of HZZO, you said that out of those 17 billion kunas, 2 billion are going to be paid, 15 billion left for treatment. I mean it's actually 15 billion kuna and for electricity, water, gas, wages, and the cost of treatment when it comes to users, or hospitals and other health care. It would be great if in Croatia really 15 billion kunas went only to the cost of treatment or without. However, of course the cost of human beings is also de facto the cost of treatment. But when it comes to HZZO, we actually have a government fund. He's been called a health insurance company for the past 20 and a few years, just like we have the Peace Fund. He's been called a retirement insurance company for the last 20 years. They're not any insurance. It's actually state funds. De jure, he can be in the Treasury, outside the Treasury. De facto, he's always just one state fund that whatever loss the state created will in one way or another be able to settle that loss. And he can only change management or modify it a little bit. So, let me remind you, as far as I know, the Republic of Croatia is currently the only Member State of the European Union that has one insurance provider in the field of health insurance. The compulsory health insurance market is actually a market, it's a space that was deregulated in Western European countries about thirty years ago, forty years ago and in these new Member States, the European Union has also been deregulated. And actually if you want health insurance, then you have to establish some market relations, competition, packages and the like. Unfortunately, it's the only time that this system actually comes to a zero in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93476	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93477	A colleague, Djurovic, according to the HZZO's financial plan for the next year of these 17 billion and 600 for compulsory health insurance and I have apostrophe of the problem, which is because people often find it unclear. So 900 million sickness benefits, 900 million birth benefits, 22 million have rights defenders and other payments to the insurance company, 195 million kuna, so those 15 billion items of management system are out of it. So it's not on the burden of this. But as for the idea of privatizing compulsory health insurance, we will unfortunately never agree. We will always oppose it and we have already talked about it, and believe me, in Croatia and the Minister and the Government there is great pressure to just privatise health, compulsory health insurance. We find this extremely dangerous, because it would be the same as privatizing the pension insurance of generation solidarity. Voluntary supplemental yes, second pillar of retirement, third private yes. But something called mandatory is a matter of the social state and state responsibility for those insurances. Privates can fail, the state is behind this. It is the only guarantee the citizens of this Croatia have. So, health and pension insurance behind which the state stands. Don't advocate privatizing that system. It has nothing to do with the social state or justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93478	And now we're gonna take a break by 3:00 and then we're gonna continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93479	My colleagues and colleagues will continue to work. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's so nice to start this debate in a quiet atmosphere, nice and stimulating, but I think it's very good. At least it'll be quiet and there'll be conditions to say something. Here, this is the final budget of the government of Zoran Milanovic, so the government of the Kukuriku coalition. And what you can certainly say now is when you look back three years ago is actually how fast time flies because this is the last budget for the election year. Everyone who has made the calculations knows how difficult it is to make a budget for each year and when it is good and when it is difficult, of course, when it is difficult, especially in the election years. Because then the appetites of many are strengthened, everyone is looking for something, ministers want to end their mandate as successful ministers, all those who rely on the state budget think that it is a time when it is possible to ask for it, and it is possible to blackmail, it is possible to press. That is why, of course, I believe that in the creation and formation of the budget, the Prime Minister is in the most difficult position and certainly the Minister of Finance. So I express my support to both the minister and his employees because I know how difficult this year has been. However, now that we are, in some way, recapitulating this 2015 budget in some way and the work of this government, or the budgets that were adopted in 2012, 2013, what can we and must conclude? Unfortunately, from November 2011 to November 2014, the standard of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia decreased by about 10%, the industry by about 8%, the number of employees by around 4.4%, the public debt increased by around 23%. This means that it will be 10 and 10 years before, for example, the introduction of the euro. I mention this because we are a member of the EU. In 2015 according to these projections, therefore, if we take into account everything that has been stringed and leaned on each other throughout all these years, unfortunately we can expect a new employment decline of about 0.5%, so not much but anyway. A slight drop in investment, an foreign debt could be around 105%. In 2015 and 2016, we could become the country with the largest deficit and the country with the largest public debt in the EU. So, unfortunately, this is the framework in which the draft budget has been discussed for this year as well. I would also refer to the Commission, i.e. the Commission's report on fiscal policy, which, in its report on the State Budget 2015 proposal, reminded me, quote: "The Commission for Fiscal Policy in its term of office during each draft budget or draft amending and supplementing the budget was asked to show the government's assessment of the implementation of the fiscal rule in the documents sent to the Parliament next time. This is extremely important in order for representatives in the Croatian Parliament," the commission said, "to better know the risks that adoption of the proposed budget brings to the views of respecting the Law on Fiscal Responsibility." And the commission points out that there was actually only one place to mention that provision. It continues to conclude that there have been major methodological changes in the proposed budget compared to previous years' budgets and that there are no official estimates and detailed data that would allow comparisons with earlier years. Therefore, it was not necessary to read or read the report of this Committee on Fiscal Policy in order not to know. So it's very difficult to compare this budget that's in front of us with the budgets from previous years. But what was planned was planned, and what had been realized and what had been done was mainly done. And what will be done is seen so when we talk about the mandate of a government we see through the budget framework that is ahead of us. I repeat once again that in the election years it is particularly difficult to put together a state budget, but this minimalistic projection and forecast of growth of 0.5%, so this is really modest. It would be good if this were achieved, however, given the fact that it is difficult to dispute that projections over the past years and on growth and on the deficit and on the need for rebalancing have not been achieved, it is hard to expect that we will achieve this minimum growth, but I believe that none of us who will support or not, if that growth is also achieved. Of course this is an opportunity to remind her, I don't want much of it, that in 2011, we had our first year after a long time of those years without budget rebalancing, and that the expenditures were frozen. That's what I'm saying because it's also been an election year. That we have included in these frozen expenditures the new 4 billion expenditures and pensions, and for commitments towards the EU, so it has been without rebalance but with this budget projection for 2015, I don't think we can be sure, and also the experience from this year and last year and 2012 that the rebalancing will be very fast. So we have to do as the people say nod with what we have. What's actually a feature of the budget, here are the current budgets, and I think the 2015 budget is continuing that trend. I talked about it more, I remember it well in 2012 in this same assembly, so relatively fresh after parliamentary elections, and it is repeated year after year. Therefore, revenue is pre-planned and expenditure is sub-planned or underestimated. I remind you of a trend that we could see both this year and last year and past years, and it has proved that, for example, funds, i.e. wage expenditures were constantly planned and that it was necessary to find funds for wages each year, that there was anxiety, uncertainty, and so it was this year. And that's something that, of course, is not necessarily responsible for just or at all, the finance minister, but shows that the ministries were planning to plan, because each of the ministers will have to find money when they arrive. If I remember correctly last year the total amount of unplanned salary funds in several ministries was climbing, which was later to be found, and up to a billion kuna. So I repeat, modestly planned growth as was planned last year, this year and last year, unfortunately none of it came true. It has been a lot of objections, but only this fiscal responsibility committee unfortunately mentions this in its report that the budget is in some way unreadable, and if it is unreadable, then it is imperceptible, and therefore unpredictable and then its realization or execution is very questionable. I think it can be said that the budget is not truly balanced until the end and what, what I particularly want to warn about, is the difference between the budget that is ahead of us and the economic and fiscal policy guidelines. So the difference in what we have in front of us and in the guidelines is greater than 8 billion kuna. This means that many decisions have actually been made at the last minute. From the media, it was evident from the public that there were major difficulties in putting the ministry, I will not tell the ministers, because no minister is doing a budget for his ministry alone, but is working with his associates, major difficulties and major problems. As for the separation from HZZO from the Treasury, I agree with all those who say it's not a reform. Issuing HZZO from the Treasury is not a reform. It seems to me that the finance minister himself once said that it was not a reform. And how much memory follows me or was said, but the minister said it was, that it could be considered a reform. He's always been, he's always existed since I've been here. I've been involved in the work of the government, the struggle or the insistence. The Minister of Health would be happy to do so, and the Minister of Finance would hate to single it out, and then it's always about the government's political decision as a whole and the prime minister whether it's smart or not. We will see very quickly how this will reflect overall on the achievement of the budget, or the fulfilment of the government's obligations, what the state is, but in my opinion and experience it is indeed now a trip or adventure into the unknown. We can't predict this moment the real consequences of this exposure. It is definitely and whether the separation of HZZO from the Treasury will contribute to improving the overall picture of health and health situation, I also think it will not. As far as health care is concerned, and as far as the pension system is concerned, we need a consensus, and it can be the only real reform. Consensus of Croatia's largest political forces over what needs to be done urgently and urgently to stabilise these two systems. In retirement we have almost one-on-one, one-for-one, one-retired. So we must also follow those guidelines that we have received from the European Commission, or the Council, on the need to penalise any early retirement, that all those working until the end should be rewarded, according to the law, who are doing full-time work, who are leaving. And, unfortunately, we should also think about increasing that retirement line as well. And as far as the health system is concerned, absolutely someday someone will also have to say that we should go almost from the beginning, and that health system actually puts on new foundations, but without the consensus of political, at least the main political forces, ladies and gentlemen, it's impossible. And as long as that doesn't happen, and as long as all those who compete every four years to come to power, to ride that horse who then gallops who knows where, they have to be aware, there will come a moment, and here next year, as much as we have, more than 11 billion interest, and that is now and that is the opportunity and the situation, who knows how it will be in 2 years, who knows how it will be in 3 years, and we simply won't be able to serve all these obligations. So the deficit reduction absolutely yes, it should be one of the priorities. However, when you look at the views and experts on how to reduce and should reduce and radically reduce the deficit and how it should be reduced, then experts who deal with it on a daily basis sometimes have diametrically opposite views. And that should be considered. So everybody at the table and try to make a real project once. These two systems and, of course, the state administration reform to move forward. As the next year is electoral, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, it certainly won't happen, it won't happen, but one day a strong government needs to appear which, here, will be able to bring it to the citizens and say how we must participate in health, quite differently, lay the foundations of the pension system differently, and then we will be able to hope and hope for growth and good budget projections. So, unfortunately for this budget, we won't be able to cast our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93481	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First, dear colleague Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93482	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, you can't say that it's a commitment of state and adventure. It may be 2016, I still think it isn't. Just before you had the prime minister here, he said the budget was forecast and we can agree with the prime minister that the budget is forecast, but when you have 2 to 3 rebalances over the year, then they're bad forecasts. Then the budget was miscalculated. But what's happening now is that next year's projections are going to be 11 billion just interest that we're going to have to pay, clearly it indicates that we're in charge of generations to come. Therefore, there must be consensus in this Parliament on both the income and the expenditure side if we want good Croatia, and in particular we see it, the people we are from Slavonia, Baranja, that in Slavonia and Baranja there are almost capital investments in the following year. That is what we are concerned about, that is what indicates that there will be no investment cycle and points to one incompetence and poor assessment of this Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93483	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93484	Yes, I agree with you. If in the year we have 2 budget rebalances or 3 budget rebalances, there were of course such years and before and it should not be hidden, it should be spoken publicly, however, then of course it shows that the budget is not well planned and that it is not well balanced. We are a country that is going through a long-term, difficult crisis that we cannot get out of, but it is also a fact that everyone is talking about reforms, absolutely all of them, but there are few who say both in the government and outside the government, which is really a reform that, even with experts, listen to economic experts. They generally say radical reforms should be carried out, but few say what they mean. So, I still think, let's say that the separation of HZZO from the Treasury is not a reform, it's not a reform. It's only one procedure to make a single cut with complete uncertainty, which will ultimately cause it. We'll see very soon, but I'm afraid it won't be enough for us to just figure out what happened now. The question is, how is that, if it goes the wrong way and goes wrong, and if it starts to cause new consequences, and good health is especially sure I won't bring it, that question today is actually not being answered. And that's what, I don't think we've yet learned to fully analyze some steps and some situation where we need to change the system and then go out with bold decisions. It is the same thing that Croatia needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93485	Second replica, respected Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, I agree with you that as far as health care is concerned, in general, that you need a consensus. I can also agree with you that in these difficult times it is actually very difficult to agree on that budget of health, this is not a reform, it is true, but by extracting from the Treasury is respecting the law and I cannot agree that it is an adventure because I said just now in one replica that I have a feeling that one collective fear has arisen as a characteristic of all of us, when there are some changes in the matter. But here I have to say that many have tried to do it, failed, this is what the government has done. And that will certainly lead to transparency, and now I'm going to tell you examples. What is not transparency if 2.4 billion kunas are financed from the state budget? That way we'll see exactly where these money goes. Also, 10 state hospitals go into composition, actually go into the state budget. What's not transparent? The transparency of the whole system when you look at these hospitals going around 4.3 billion, it's planned for 2015 and for the first time by cost structure you know exactly what the salaries are, what the material costs are for each of these 10 state hospitals. So I think this isn't an adventure, that this is really a more transparent way of seeing because this brings responsibility, and out of responsibility we can look for later and who's to blame if someone's guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93487	The replica matches the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93488	Yeah, respected colleagues exactly I'm absolutely notorna is the fact that it's a legal obligation but it's also the fact that I kind of mentioned it in the clues that it's not the first time to think about it. In previous years, however, this has been considered, as well as the consequences that the separation of HZZO from the treasury can cause. You mentioned if I heard the state hospitals well, and what about the county hospitals? That's the question, and here we are in a vicious circle. What about county hospitals? And what every sick person in Croatia is interested in, and end-users mean citizens who need health care services are only interested in one thing, whether or not a reform will make it possible, for example. That indeed those who need to get expensive medications like that mother of five seem to me to be fighting for Glivec, or who is fighting for a medicine that is given a generic medicine that is not going to make it, but people are sending it to her. So that's a question that interests citizens. And when we can say that, let's say, some measure just enables all people who are seriously ill and who need extremely expensive medicines, operations abroad will be able to get it, then the end users will also be able to say that this is a good reform that goes towards what needs to be the goal of every social state and state of social justice, and Croatia is, according to the Constitution, which makes it possible for people to have equal access to health and health and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93489	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club on the state budget for 2015, the Vice-President of the House of Honored Dragica Zgrebec will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93490	Thank you. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. 2015 is the second year in which the state budget should ensure the implementation of measures for the resolution of the excessive deficit, i.e. according to the criteria set out in the Croatian deficit, should be reduced to 3.5% of GDP corresponding to the annual improvement of the structural balance of at least 0.9% of GDP. This means continuing budgetary consolidation and ensuring the permanent improvement of the general government balance and the quality of public finances. Measures should be taken aimed at strengthening economic growth, improving the quality of the business environment and the efficiency of public administration. The priority is given to investment to foster growth, particularly through the use of EU cohesion and structural funds, which is also highlighted by the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion. In view of the fact that in 2014 the state budget did not receive sufficient results from the established economic and financial policy guidelines for the period 2015-2017, certain adjustments were to be made on the revenue side of the budget as they were made. Furthermore, there have been some methodological and statistical changes in the 2015 budget that ensure greater coverage of the statement of revenue and expenditure. This refers to the inclusion of institutions and institutions financed by own and dedicated funds such as universities, universities, public institutes, national parks, nature parks, etc. This is in line with the Budget Law as well as the observations and criteria referred to by the State Audit Office when revising the State Budget. At the same time, HZZO comes out of the Treasury, and the budget remains or is introduced by health institutions that are the founder of the state. The paper is also the introduction of a deep analysis of certain expenditure groups and their control in spending, which will further affect the rational and economic spending of tax revenue or resources. The 2015 budget is based on a mild economic growth of 0.5% and the GDP growth structure is planned to be affected by gross fixed capital investments with 0.3% and a net commodity exchange of differences in import growth, exports of 0.2% while consumption due to a decline in state spending will be neutral. In view of certain methodological changes in the primary presentation of part of the tax revenue by gross principle, the tax revenues of the specific income tax will show the total amount of tax through the state budget and the amount of return to local and regional self-government units through the expenditures of the state budget. This is also the reason why the revenues of this tax in 2015 recorded high statistical growth for the reason that HZZO becomes an extra-financial fund, health contributions are no longer recorded through the state budget, so the statistical contributions have a significant reduction, and as the income of the state budget only € 4.3 billion is recorded for health institutions that are the founder of the state and are based on the contract with HZZO. Given the changes in the taxation of gambling by which all profits will be taxed, there is no plan to cut these revenues, even some mild seems to me to be growing. The tax on property is reduced due to a more favourable distribution of this tax between and in favour of local self-government units. Significantly, an increase in aid revenues is planned primarily because of EU funding planned in the amount of 7.1 billion kuna, which is, in our opinion, the most challenging revenue because its implementation requires well-designed programmes and projects from communal to economic. In this way, revenue from cca was planned in the 2015 budget. 106 billion kuna. The highest level of expenditure refers to salaries, pensions, social transfers and interest. The expenditure on employees has been increased due to the inclusion in the State Treasury system, health institutions which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia by 3.4 billion kuna but also the actual mass of staff funds has been planned at 2014 level, and even plans to make a part of the salary that will be, employees who will be linked to the European Union projects, will also be financed from these projects. The pensions are planned to amount to 36.4 billion, slightly more due to the entry of new pensioners into the system while only 21.4 billion kuna are planned to be made out of pension contributions while the rest needs to be settled from tax revenues and that is one of the problems facing the state budget or deficit. So two large systems of pension and health significance actually participate in tax revenues and not only in contributions or in this... For interest, about $11 billion or 10.7 billion is planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The expenditure on subsidies is increasing, but primarily due to the increase in the amount of direct payments in agriculture which will be slightly higher in this budget and will be paid out of the budget, the European Union's agricultural budget. So for 2015, expenditures of 119 billion are planned, resulting in a deficit of $12.5 billion or 3.8% of GDP. When I said that the biggest challenge in the revenues of the state budget for 2015 is the part relating to the realisation of European budget funds, it should be said that it will not only affect the state budget in terms of transfers through the state budget, but it can also have a strong impact on both economic activities and on the increase in investment, i.e. on new employment, and I will say a few sentences in that section. So the planned amount of EU funds of 7.1 billion is pulling back the national component that is planned in this budget with 717 million kuna per ministry to be the bearer of these projects. It has already been said here that this applies most to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, as follows. The task is for the Ministry of Agriculture to realise around 3.3 billion kuna in the following year, the most certain revenues of billions and 200 million kunas related to direct payments, which are then being upgraded by the domestic component. This is in line with our accession contract where, for these purposes, agriculture, some 350m euros per year are provided for direct payments by reaching the maximum amount in the 10th year of membership in the European Union. The second part concerns rural development and the rest of the IPARD programme of billions and 100 million kuna. As far as rural development is concerned, some 350m euros have been allocated to Croatia, which will not be used until the 5th year. So the part relating to the water sector is about 400 million kuna, about 280 million kuna and other programmes, just over 200 million kuna. It is possible to implement around 730 million kuna from European funds to support entrepreneurs. I think it will be the most valuable project, and it is already in a function of some of these measures for longer and longer years on active employment measures for which 586 million kuna can be obtained from the European budget and with this part of the national component of nearly 500 million kuna, which is a huge increase and certainly a significant amount for a large number of measures used as active employment measures, which means that it will be able to increase and certain amounts from self-employment to the part where our young people volunteer by 1600 kuna, it has already been announced that this amount will increase to 2400 kuna. And finally to say that Croatian society has been facing a crisis for six years without any major shifts. We try to resolve the consequences slowly and hardly remove the causes. But this budget also introduces other accompanying instruments that should ensure a shift in economic and social terms. At this point, they are still in the good part at law and programme level, so they need their emergency operationalization. We're especially thinking about the following. To further disbursement the net salaries of employees and pensions of pensioners by not taxing the minimum wage for the first time. So there's an increase in personal income and pension deductions, and they're increasing... in taxation relating to the highest income tax rates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Taxation of income on interest is expanded, which then enables the income derived from not only permanent work to be released in a way. Taxation of income as I have said on other incomes is expanding, a new evaluation of the development of local self-government units is taking place for the first time in the system of assisted areas, which can then mean their somewhat faster development than it has ever been. A programme to write down small amounts of debt and a performance for the socially most vulnerable parts of the population, which will mean that they are regaining a certain business capacity. The necessary funds are also provided through the state budget, through a specific fund, but also through the Croatian Bank's programme for reconstruction and development for the implementation of projects financed by the European Union funds that should allow assumptions for economic growth. Other benefits for small entrepreneurs are introduced, and they are related to the choice of time when they will pay taxes, tax obligations such as those. VAT per bill charged, entry into the profit tax system and some other benefits. The planned expenditure side of the state budget should be closely monitored, in particular the expenditure financed from tax revenues because any excess of these expenditures also means an increase in deficits, i.e. public debt. We expect that the state budget on the planned and expenditure side will be strictly controlled and supervised and that major interventions will not be needed during the year into the state budget. Finally, the SDP club will support the State budget for 2015, with corresponding documents and projections for the next two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93491	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First honorary Darko Milinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93492	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned HZZO's separation, that this should fix the situation in the state budget and at least that transparent part. Look now, but at the beginning it's clear that of that, I agree it's not a major reform procedure but it should be the beginning of a... reform procedure in the health system. With applicable regulations, laws, contributions therefore from the general HZZO tax should be made out of the contribution to the unemployed of 620 million kuna, revenue under Article 63. The Health Protection Act 2.5 billion kuna, contributions from the pension budget of 370 million kuna, excise duties on tobacco 32% about a billion kuna and contributions through health insurance as a commitment to the state budget from the general taxes of 555 million kuna. That's somewhere from the general taxes on HZZO should go about 5 billion kuna. Now, in the state budget for this year, we have transfers from the general taxes to HZZO 2.5 billion kuna. Where are these other 2.5 billion kunas? So this budget is already illegal at the beginning, not respecting all those legal provisions that are valid. Either we need to change the law so we say we increase participation as I did, increase participation by 100% or we need to respect the law. So this budget is illegal at first, it doesn't comply with the laws. Under the current laws, I stress, the general taxes in HZZO need to go to 5 billion kuna, and 2.5 billion kuna is foreseen here. So who's there not to say confused come on?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93493	The replica corresponds to the respected vice president of the home of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93494	At least me and the minister who explained HZZO's separation from the Treasury or the budget never said it was a reform procedure or that it was a reform of the health system. The fact is that the biggest problems with the state budget are two large systems: pension and health, which we have been trying to solve for years. And we've been doing health and pension work somewhere since the late '90s. The first reform laws relating to the pension and health care system are somewhere in '98. and '99. A year. By discharging health insurance or HZZO into an extra-account fund, it actually puts high responsibility on the people who manage this system, to spend resources in a rational and economic way. When it's in the budget, then it's quite, somehow lost, you know, that responsibility is lost. For the first time, we see from the budget how much is left out. I can't get into this account of yours, you're certainly far more familiar than I am, but for the first time we see how much tax funds actually go as a transfer to health care and, of course, if it won't be enough it'll have to work rebalance, it's without further ado. And when it comes to rebalancing, we've had all kinds of experiences. We've had experience that in three weeks we've had two rebalances, so if two rebalancings are over the year, I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93495	The second line is respected Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Vice President. Direct payments, rural development and a constant mention of how the village and agriculture will be very good in the coming year because a lot of EU funds are expected and I really have to react to this because we are warning all the time that we have not done a good job and that it is precisely the problem that these funds are available, but because of the poor preparation, the inability of the resolution ministry, especially the head of the Croatian village, will not be able to benefit them. You know that 50m euros were also transferred to direct payments by that redistribution from the rural development pillar and that that money could not be used even for direct payments until a rural development programme was adopted. Do we really think that up to 15.1. when there will be a new evaluation, the meaning of our rural development measures programme would be possible to correct all these negative comments that are not technical. Unfortunately, they also have deeper, more difficult points to develop. Because if it's not going to be settled by 15.1., then it's probably going to be somewhere again for half a year, and then we can expect eventually if by then it's resolved that in the second half of next year there's just going to be a tendering for rural development, which means that it's not going to be able to be achieved as planned, because then behind 15.1. we're going to do the budget rebalance immediately when we see that it hasn't passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93497	The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93498	Neither did I say, nor do I think the peasants will get a lot out of it. I only said that in this year, a billion and 200 million kunas will be withdrawn from the European Union's agrarian budget. We, our direct payment envelope, are somewhere around 3 billion of these roughly said. So the national component should be up to 3 billion kuna. We are aware that we cannot ensure this, and only in the tenth year of EU membership as we have negotiated to get that 375m euros as much as we as Croatia will have the envelope for direct payments. Some of them told me, even the agricultural adviser assigned by the French government to our ministry during the negotiations, that we did not negotiate well for negotiating an almost identical amount for direct payments and for rural development. But the fact is, that's how we negotiated, and that's how we have to work. I think it's a good thing now that almost everyone in Croatia will be able to use except large cities for rural development, because they will count on the population population, not the local self-government unit. Already here is your minister on several occasions, and also the Deputy Prime Minister said that this year we will be using rural development funds before the Rural Development Programme is approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93499	On behalf of the club of independent MPs, a respected colleague, Damir Cain, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93500	Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Your Honor, Madam Representative. No, I do not believe as some here have said that Croatia will not know in 2016, the seventeenth will be in a situation that will go bankrupt. But I do know something else, that whoever wins the election in 2015 will have to start over somehow. In one word, this amount of public spending simply is no longer to be monitored. I think that also the deficit of 12 commas so many billion kunas in some way illusions and we will probably model from 2014 or 15 after this budget have to give God one, and there will probably be two rebalances as it has been at least every year. This year the deficit that we know more or less will be somewhere around 18 and a half billion kuna with due defaults due to shipbuilding, or health care will be far more. Public debt at this point is about 89%. The deficit is close to 5.6%, the IMF is still optimistic. He's talking about 5.25%, and I'm afraid nothing radical can change in the year ahead. Why? It's an election year, but I absolutely support the new Income Act. Why? Because first of all one million Croatian citizens will be in a situation that they will have something or that they will be able to correct the salary for more. What is equally good in this proposal is the Law on VAT, i.e. in a positive way, it will primarily treat small entrepreneurs up to 3 million kunas who will be able to meet these obligations to the state not according to the invoiced but charged. When we look at the last three years, unfortunately the standard of citizens has fallen by about 10%, industry has also fallen by about 8%, the number of employees has been reduced by 61,000 and public debt from 59% to 82%. So we've even come to the point that the IMF also requires an increase in healthcare participation. They're not making contributions, they're talking about participation. However, the new Income Act, which does not tang officials, means here there will not be an increase in wages suitable for people only with medium, higher or high incomes. Unfortunately, those who have the smallest income will in some way not touch it or if it wants everything symbolically. Croatia has found itself in another problem. No country, I will repeat once more EU entry has hit us as painfully as it has hit us. And I want to believe in the optimistic announcements of the Deputy Prime Minister that relations will change in the future. Why? Because from the 1.7th to the first thirteenth, fourteenth, we paid some 537 million euros. So plus 38, but what's worst is they sort of gave us priorities. And I'm saying that almost every way I can express my authority would better distribute those resources myself. What's also a big problem, which we talked about on several occasions, the finance minister himself and others have mentioned some 7,000 more employees in local self-government since the start of the crisis. But we must admit that, from the beginning of the crisis to today, 22,000 people have been employed in the upgrade. So, for these people, it takes about three billion kunas more to pay than it did before the crisis, from 36 to 39 billion kuna. And in the real sector, from the start of the crisis to today, we've lost about 120,000 jobs, and for the wages, seven, eight billion kuna is guaranteed less. Tax revenues need to see growth by 2%, but I'm afraid it's an illusion in these economic circumstances. I repeat, VAT law means mainly because of these little craftsmen is what happens to us. The interest tax is an illusion. They'll cover, say, 10% loss of local self-government. I have the impression that the logic expressed once by the finance minister that if my ministers won't cut the revenues, then neither will the finance minister by force in the payment of income. But how did the ministry draft a budget? MUP 4.2 billion kuna, -2.4%, Ministry of Science 11.4 billion, -2.7%, Ministry of Social Welfare 4.3 billion kuna, -28.2%, Ministry of Labour +4.1%, Ministry of Construction +17.3%, Ministry of Economy -13.2%, Ministry of Defence 928 million kuna, +2.1%). Subsidies to shipbuilding, what is very important for us down in Istria - 100 million kuna. And what's for sure when you consider this budget from a local position I'm particularly interested in is income towards Istria. In 2014, we received or returned or 153m euros in guarantee for Uljanik. This must be the government's most significant measure towards Istria in the last three years. 300 million kunas last year came for the drain, 120 million kunas for the roads. Last year, 220 million kuna was provided for the continuation of the construction of the Istrian ipsilon, etc. And this year, in 2015, there are 262 million kunas for the ipillon, and the point is now to take advantage of 500 million kunas to finally finish that ipilon, but even more important to get the builders back to work. Then about 150 million kunas next year should be used from 350 million kuna to continue construction of the General Hospital in Pula or to build that hospital. The drain will reach about 300 million kuna. For roads somewhere around 120 million kuna. 2.9 million kuna is being secured for the DORH building, God forbid they get more and more to finally start doing something. For CT 2.3 million kuna. So, the investment of the budget, the extra budget from the budget, the extra budget funds next year is about a billion kuna, in 4 years 4 billion kuna. All in all, once again I'm going to say little entrepreneurs are on their feet. We have 104 thousand small entrepreneurs, employing 420 thousand people. In 2009, small businesses did business with a positive zero, today they exhausted all their reserves and without this VAT law, I don't know how to actually survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93501	He will continue to speak with his colleague, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93502	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. I'm such a minority representative, so I'll try to explain something again from a minority point of view. I was glad that the asphalt was mentioned here in the morning, and I came from one area where they didn't need to take down a good asphalt because there are areas there or there are several roads that were paved on the neck when Tito brought Brezhneva to visit the monument of fallen fighters in Batina and since then that asphalt has not been touched. And that's just what it says about the regional difference or the differences that are in Croatia. And for that reason, I repeat once again that I support the Regional Development Act in a warm way. I, as a minority representative, was already tired of hearing stories and reading in the media headlines that minority representatives would support this or that, and that minority representatives had to be with the government, that we would easily deal with minority representatives because we would agree with them and trade with them. My lords, as a minority representative, it is my job to defend the interests of my national minorities and areas to fight for areas where national minorities and majority people live. So, we're not trading, we're not going to market what we're going to say, but we're going to negotiate on the exercise of rights and the development of the area of specific demographic features. And these demographic traits include that ethnicity, too. How do I see it? So if we're fighting for employment then we must be fighting for more people who know both Hungarian and Italian and more in the home offices because a clear example... is being kept in Hungarian by all those who were born, died between '41. And '45. years and we can now philosophize whether someone there will work or not, and that knows that language or not or we have a situation that the parent simply Pistu will not enroll as Pistu but rather has written it as Steve, and now he has become Stephen, and he is neither Stephen, nor Steve, but he is simply a Pishto or simply will not enter the name..., and... he is...,... he is not a tenda, not a tinda, but a.... Therefore, whether or not they wanted to, without knowing these basics, it will be very difficult to go. If we are fighting to build a sports hall in... or to build a sports hall in..., then we are not fighting for the three Hungarians to play football there or for three students to go to school here, but we are fighting for that area to get that sports hall as well as in other areas of the Republic and will use it all. It is the same situation if we fight to build a road, so it will not only serve to pass 4 or 10 Hungarians, but normally with them it will benefit everyone and we look at it that way. And it's a special song that applies to culture because it's being financed through the National Minorities Council, it's actually become pure cultural amateurism, and where other achievements of those people or those people who have lived in the area for more than 1,000 years, and it has achieved exceptional results. It is the same situation with the restoration of sacral objects that have been maximumly neglected. In recent years, we have restored a whole series of churches or facilities, reformed churches in Croatia, and we want to continue to do so, and we have to continue because since 1991 we have several of them that have been torn down, abandoned, no one has restored them alive. Three weeks ago, we refurbished one church, handed it over to the believers, and for 20 years, no one wanted to invest in it. The wood change of 30, 40 centimetres grew from it, and is located right next to the center of the settlement. All in all, I would pray that in this budget too, and also in the future of this perception that exists in the public, and in part of this high home, national minorities will not be traded, national minorities will not be sold, national minorities will take care of the area where they live and members of the majority people. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93503	Thank you. On the stand of Damir Kajin we have a signed replica of the respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93504	Thank you very much, sir. Now I don't have Mr. Cain, but I'll tell you my line. In his discussion, he mentioned that participation is low and that it should certainly be increased by a health care system. I have data that in particular currently in the Republic of Croatia, 472 euros per capita are allocated for a fairly large range of healthcare rights while, for example, compared to the EU, there is actually an eye, just a little bit, being allocated 2171 euros. However, I must stress here that participation in our countries is lower than in countries in fact environments. I'm sorry, but we're less participatory than we are in the countries of the environment. We know that there was a recovery of the health system and one-time additional funds from the budget when you look from 2012 to '14. Seven billion kunas have been allocated. However, this resolution leads to much less efficient and quality system management because the recovery has no motivation for some fiscal responsibility, and that is why now, by detaching HZZO from the system, that is, the budget opens up the space for this institution to operate according to the principles of responsibility, the responsible system, so now there will be no more transfer of responsibility to someone else, we give the possibility, we give responsibility, and we know if there is anything wrong with whom we will call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93505	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDSS club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93506	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This draft budget for 2015 is one in a number of attempts to reduce the difference between the income and the expenditure side and in this respect represents a better solution than some earlier solutions. The critical places of this better solution compared to the previous solution is, as was the case before, the control of the income side, primarily the VAT, but also the solutions that will come with the adoption of the Income Act and, of course, the control of the expenditure side, which is a special task or a particularly difficult task on the part of the ministry, that is, on the side of the government. However, the most significant component that has made it possible for the Government, the Minister and the Ministry, to maintain one level of optimism and perspective, since expectations from European funds, or European funds, are particularly in the case of the items of individual ministries such as the Ministry of Agriculture. It will depend on the order of our teamwork and our ability to withdraw these funds. And most of the risk, the success of such a balanced budget proposal except of course on the country's fiscal processes and monetary processes will depend, of course, on how strong we will be to withdraw those funds. And there is no doubt that this test will be possible to check in early spring. And for this reason, I think that the seriousness of the Government in terms of the draft budget is not only in this draft budget but in the way in which its execution, or its realization, will be achieved. And one more word, two more words about it. We have a former minister here, we have a current minister. We all know, or we have two former ministers, I apologize to my colleague Linic and my colleague Shuker, we have two former ministers, we have the current minister. In the last few mandates of the Parliament and the Government, the differences between the expenditure and the income parties are being maintained with an attempt to reduce this to an amount that would allow the control of fiscal policy and deficit control in line with the commitments we have made and in line with the fiscal policy that the Government is seeking to achieve. We all know that the point that should be reached somewhere around 106 is about 110 billion kuna to what the budget or budget of the Republic of Croatia should be. And we all know that's the goal that should be achieved. The European funds of these 7.9 billion kunas that we have allow us to go beyond what we would normally go for, and for this reason I think it is extremely important to send a message about the adoption of this budget to what extent the situation is actually serious when budgetary discipline is necessary by Wednesday, to what extent is the serious situation when it comes to budget implementation policy. Now allow me to go after these general remarks to the specific parts of this year's budget proposal. I welcome the government's decision to raise funds for next year's Ministry of Science and Education. What is a pity when the proposal for the Ministry of Science, which the research resources in the scientific sphere are not increased because it is good that the educational programme is being maintained and it is good that all our universities have been given the opportunity to have an increase from Zadar, Rijeka, Osijek, Splitski and Zagreb. But what is not good is that research and science funds, scientific research is not necessarily increased. Croatian science and thus Croatian higher education is actually suffering precisely because these funds are limited and because we do not have more significant research in this area, i.e. more significant investments in this area. In this respect, Croatia can also function as a country that will have some kind of standard when high education is on Wednesday, but this standard cannot be maintained for long even at this level unless it is invested in research whether it is technical sciences, natural sciences or social and humanistic sciences. Money for this type of research is not so large in total, and it is extremely necessary in this area. As regards the protection of cultural monuments, this is an extremely important area and given the extremely low rate, i.e. the decline when the total budget of the Ministry of Culture is on Wednesday, this increase could significantly contribute to increasing the capacity of protection of cultural monuments in the Republic of Croatia. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, so this increase that goes almost 800 million kuna is extremely important when rural development is on Wednesday, as a assumption of the creation of development capacities in a large part of the Republic of Croatia, large spaces actually of the Republic of Croatia that are currently being neglected. An item by the Ministry of Regional Development of 150m or 170m kuna that will help municipalities to be able to compete for projects of that ministry, the agriculture ministry, I hope it will be enough. But what we are almost certain will not be enough, which is that it is necessary for either the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development or for another instrument to create an assumption that the Regional Development Act that we should adopt on Friday has a satisfactory means to practice at least segments of development policy that the law provided for especially when it is in response when areas are assisted. Supported areas are out of focus for most of the banking and major works, not only of the commercial banks but also of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And there is no doubt that if we want to get these areas out that we need to develop an additional mechanism to get them out and for this reason I would call on one and the other Minister of Finance and Vice-President and Minister of Development that as soon as possible consider the possibility of creating this additional mechanism for a large number of Croatian municipalities from its east to its south, they are increasingly or less along the border, they are becoming more or less slow to war activities or the result of insufficient economic activity or the result of general delicacy. In the end, I want to say three more, four more special things. First, as far as municipalities and plans are concerned, that some of the municipalities that have the lowest index of development in the Republic of Croatia have been deprived of the grant that the municipalities have received in recent years, and that this is not a good policy, and this is not a good solution and we ask both the Ministers to return it to the state of this year because otherwise these municipalities can simply put the key in the lock and will not be able to function until they adapt and until adequate mechanisms are created for this, it would be a punishment for these municipalities and de facto could cease to exist. It is 18 municipalities within the Republic of Croatia that have been affected and for this reason we find it extremely important that this thing be changed or corrected. Another thing I want to say is about the Ministry of Science and Education and it concerns education for members of national minorities where the budget does not provide for an increase but provides for a reduction of 281 thousand kuna for national minority education programmes. And we believe that it is necessary for these items to increase, this is not a particular burden on the budget, as counterpart Shucker pointed out in the budget rebalancing debate, these are not significant funds, but are significant means to make textbooks and are significant means to raise standards when it comes to minority education. What is very important is that Croatia should strive to ensure that all national minorities have textbooks that are produced in the Republic of Croatia and that work in the Republic of Croatia and not only are approved by the Ministry but at the same time helps to make them in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore they do not need to be reduced. This is especially true for the Serbian National Minority, who is still not actually able to make their textbooks in the Republic of Croatia, but these textbooks should be either imported or otherwise verified in the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I'm trying to say is, as far as the State Department of Reconstruction and Housing is concerned, three years in a row are reduced funds for renovation and housing, and that's what we've talked about here at times very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, And this year there was a decrease of about 21 million kuna. If that's justified and in accordance with the plan, we'll accept it. But the fact that this state office wants to add a reconstruction programme to the areas that are flooded, and that the funds are being reduced, we think that this is not good, and we believe that, for this reason, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care should increase funds if they are to be included in the reconstruction programme in the flooded areas. And we will make amendments in this regard that these funds are increasing. Finally, if all areas affected by the flood were treated with government measures and government decisions that allowed public enterprises such as the Croatian road to intervene in the restoration of bridges, roads and roads, then this should also apply to the Karlovak County. The bridge that died in the floods in the area of the Carlovina County between Veljun and Polo in the town of Slunj will not be able to restore either the county or the town of Slunj and the bridge we tried to interventionally repair it by the Croatian Army, it cannot fix it because there is no ponton, it cannot fix it because there are no metal bridges to which it would do so. So the only thing left is for the county and Croatian roads to be helped by the government to actually build that bridge because it was a wooden bridge that took the water away, and for those people living in the area concerned with agriculture, livestock and other extremely important things. And for this reason we expect not to solve this with a state budget but we expect this to be resolved by better communication between the Government and the Croatian Roads. The SDSS representative club will support this budget and expects the government and the competent ministries to pay special attention to these three critical places. One is the realisation of funds from the EU funds, and the other is the control of particularly expenditure parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93507	Thank you. We have replicas. The replica was reported by the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac, just one, one little correction to your quote in fact. You said more money was allocated this year in this rebalancing for science and education than last time. That's not true. Two percent higher than the last budget, however 2% lower than the budget rebalance and budget achievement. Unfortunately, therefore, less money is given to this budget for science and education and it is not good. It's been reduced by 214 million kuna, which is not good either. And when we consider how much money is given for all science, all projects scientific in the Republic of Croatia and all PhDs, then it's about a billion kuna, which on the one hand is about the kind of funds that are allocated to a single European FP7 project. So for all the Croatian scientific production, all the research, all the PhDs, etc., just so we know what we're talking about. And on the other hand, it's about how much this government has forgiven in a pre-fashion deal, for example, one single pre-fashion deal. Here, just so we know what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93509	The replica matches the esteemed Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93510	Dear colleague Reiner, I agree with your remarks that in recent years science and education have been constantly reducing the volume of budgetary resources. But you'll agree with me, and I meant that in my debate, before this budget was drawn up and before the budget was rebalanced, and over the past half of the year, it's been planned to reduce the funds more significantly than what's happened now, and now we've actually got an increase. And certainly neither the Zagreb University nor the Osijek University nor the Split, nor the Rijeka, nor the Zadar University will care that it will have a significant increase in its resources, as it will also be for those who, for the staff component of the Ministry of Science, have increased funds. I agree with you when it comes to research and when it... university and science, we far, far less separate from what we should. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's our job to fight for it, and in that sense I believe that you understand my intervention and my conspiracy to increase those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93511	Thank you. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic will speak to the esteemed Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93512	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Vice President, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I want to start by thinking that I was shocked by the unpreparedness of the Prime Minister when he proposed a document like this. A huge number of advisors who have a prime minister in his office and he comes to the session unprepared. He exhibited for 6 minutes if we do not exclude problems in the city of Zagreb. Why is that shocking? So he demeans the work of all relevant ministries and people in those ministries that are this budget, regardless of how we evaluate it, we will give it enormous and time and personal effort. It just shows how much he cares about the debate in this House and thinks about us towards him, he's above us, so it doesn't matter what we think. But he also sent a message to businesses and citizens that he, as prime minister, does not know what will happen in 2015 and that the government will not control the processes in 2015. Yes, that's how I experienced the presentation of the prime minister of this state budget. And that's why for me, it's just something I've never noticed in his life before. Now let's get to the budget. So I'd like to stick to the debate on macroeconomic movements first. A huge turn of government when we talk about economic growth. The last two years of '13 and '14 were investment in capital. They were the backbone of economic growth. Which means the government has clearly sent a message that it will directly affect economic growth because it will control investments in energy, infrastructure and certain branches of the Croatian economy, it will control because it controls both HEP and INA and Croatian Railways, Croatian Forests and Croatian Waters. And, of course, failure is, what if you're looking at the rebalancing for the past year then you see that the enormous decline is exactly investment in capital and public enterprises and in the general state. There's no investment. Could justification be a global crisis? No, I don't. Could justification be a European weak demand? No, I don't. Could it be former government, undeveloped programs? After three years, no. After three years, no. It is therefore called a failure to manage the most valuable resources that can relieve the tax burden on the economy and citizens. Yeah, nothing today about what's going to be Plomin 2015, nothing about what's going to be the hydropower plant in Dubrovnik, the Kosinj hydropower plant nothing about what's going to be the railroad, nothing about 2015, nothing about what's going to happen to HZ, freight traffic and nothing about what's going to be from the wood industry. And what's worrying, he sent a message, we can't do anything in the INA, and imagine Hungarians are according to official data 49%. So if the state is not able to buy 7% of small shareholders with its 44%, these are mostly funds, taken over management because the contract has been annulled by the court and shows that the 2 billion that are in the INA can be placed in the function of rebuilding both refineries. Yeah, that state can show, that the government can show, but then it can't show there's no investment in capital. And that's why we have 0.5% growth. What's the backbone of growth? Export, private sector. What's next? Private investment. No matter what private investment there is, if there is no investment of the state in such important, significant components as energy, such as Croatian infrastructure. Croatian railways and this infrastructure record losses, will be the reason for further guarantees, guarantees payments. So why haven't we restructured freight traffic, we're not letting on HH by the carriers, so traffic in ports or stagniers, let's not be so rough, stagnating traffic in ports. So why? So because we have half the price of rail transport just to co-finance the failure of HZ-Cargo, and of course you can't start an investment cycle. So who can agree that after three years or the last two years because the first year we still doubted whether investment in public capital and investment in public capital is the backbone of development or private capital, but after two years where we predicted it in our budgets, we have the opposite this year. Quite the opposite. A year that's election year. Instead of burying the divers, hiring the industry, showing that we can do something, we're giving up all our programs. We can hardly find any explanation for this. It's nothing but the government's responsibility for mismanagement of public resources. But I'm sorry, that's what the European Commission told us, and they told us that the government's responsibility for small incomes is that they don't know how to manage public enterprises and special institutions with public authority. And what's worrying, I won't, debts like debts, we're used to living with them, but in the last year I wrote that we're going to have a reduction in the number of employees by 0.7%, I wouldn't dare write that. 0.7% is, the prime minister is going to say it's real, but 0.7% means too little workloads, out of a million 340 thousand, we're going to bring down a million 300 grand. Do you know what that means? The basic problems of the Croatian budget, which is a pension system with 17 billion deficits and a health system due to poor organisation and too few taxpayers, will never be solved. It will be cancer wounds that will always create deficits beyond the possibility of the Republic of Croatia. We will not be able to solve these problems without increasing the number, and the increase in the number of employees is in the hands of the government, with the management of the assets, the correct revenues from that property. And of course if we evaluate just these two elements, we have to estimate that it's a program that's hard to accept. It's the government's sleep in the election year or vice versa, running the government into a campaign instead of campaigning through job openings, through new investments. But not only to keep myself on macroeconomic data, let's say something about income itself. What do incomes and incomes show us? So, first of all, we have an increase in income tax to re-negotiate the powers of local self-government units and by taking over and centralizing their funds, and that's what this government says in the last year of the term of office that I'm going to be sharing the funds for how the decision is made by ministers, not how you are capable and how you in the local environments can. Therefore, dependence on the central government shows this increase of nearly 400 million per income tax. When we talk about VAT, then all we can say is that we can always argue about the risk of achieving those revenues. Personally, I think the risk is high. Why is it big? Well, for the good of it, we gave the contractors the VAT dues per charge. So why, because the state failed to resolve the indifference. It didn't work. The Financial Business Act shall not be implemented. We're going to grow again in 2015 indifference. But if that is true then the negative consequences on VAT income will nevertheless be fundamental new measures. So good measure, we admit our failure, but the problem is why we haven't shown it differently and realistically. It's not enough. And I also think that we underestimated the effect of five percent VAT on drugs. What I'm also asking is if it's real, big proceeds are based on the sale of property, the sale of dwellings of 2,000 apartments we plan to sell next year. 2000, there's probably people in there, and I think that's a good move. It's a good move for someone who wants to buy an apartment. So these aren't all empty apartments. But I'm asking if DUDI is able to sell 2,000 apartments in 2015? Is that real? I wonder if it's realistic that for three years we haven't had a significant sale of unnecessary property in the state? Probably the question of whether we've solved all the papers in the land books. But, well, I'd say we'd like to get management to do something more. I see I'm a little too wide, so I need to speed up. What about expenses? You'd better not comment on a single item. But that's where I expected the prime minister. The expenditure is dependent on reforms. Government reforms are a special package of decisions, beautifully imported. I expected the prime minister to look back today on what we achieved in 2014, which reforms we will have in 2015 and what effects will be on the expenditure side. The prime minister does not look back on any reform. In fact, his messages aren't gonna touch and cut because we don't need to. It's something that's worrying. Four years in office. We do not want to implement the reforms we have established by the government's document. Two words about the deficit. The proceeds from the privatisation of two billion, the only thing I haven't read is what we're going to privatize. Two billion is not small. It's very important for the financing account. And what my colleague Shuker mentioned, we're talking about monetization. We don't see it in the finance account, we don't see it, it won't be there. But if she's not going to be, then I'm asking why the finance minister didn't insist on returning 40 lips to the highways. These are their original revenues, and they were transferred to the Croatian roads and Croatian railways because the monetization was supposed to be achieved in 2014, and we see that neither will be achieved in 2015. We spend money, and we will create dues after paying the liabilities for the debts of the highway Zagreb – Rijeka and Croatian highways. Yeah, that's the problem. These are the deficits we'll hide through bail payments. And the basics. I expected the prime minister today to refer to the government's programme of battle against excessive deficits. What is the reason why we failed in 2014 and what are we going to do to succeed in 2015? It is his programme towards the citizens of Croatia and the European Commission. In no word did he look back to us to try to see what the battle is to reduce the excessive deficit in this budget. That's why we won't vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93513	I thank my colleague Linic. You've caused eight replicas. The first one comes from your club, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93514	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Linic, last and last year when you were Minister of Finance, you ended up about with this sentence of your exposure. We've done everything in the ministry to take care of the finances. The problem is they've scheduled ministries that need to secure higher incomes. That's what you said as a minister. Today you speak the same way as a parliamentary representative. All that stuff you said in your presentation on behalf of the club has already been heard and spoken all the time. The investment of the state is actually a cancer of the wounds of both the government and the entire society. When I tried to get the prime minister's answers this morning, there was no investment in strategic projects such as the Hungarian border line to Rijeka, that the Rijeka port would get the importance it once had and should have quite certainly greater than the Slovenian ports. I didn't win, it shrugged down to a personal level and an insult. Why do Croatia's waters have no water when the water is far more important today than oil, have no greater influence in the economy of the Republic of Croatia? Why is INA pulling its nose all the time that not only was bought by the Croatian government, but rather by the Croatian people. It was clear to me that she was pulling her nose at the time of Sanader, but now I don't know how to get Mr. Milanovic who's all right, how to pull his nose. We didn't get a single answer, and what is the backbone of development should be exactly investment in a state-run public sector that is not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93515	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93516	Each government when making a budget should assess whether it will fight for the revenue side or the expenditure side. Finance ministers are always trying to push the income side for a simple reason because it is a job, a battle for a job, a battle for success and a private sector. Unfortunately, they're not doing it. And at that moment when there is a conflict between the Ministry of Finance and the ministry responsible for development, the management of the most valuable state resources, which are public enterprises and public property, the prime minister remains aside. And that's why for the last two years, income growth hasn't been realized and could have been realized. This is why we do not have growth in this year's budget based on investment in capital, and this is public capital. Yeah, that's the problem, that means being away from the problem. Because simply the energy of Croatia needs it. So Croatia needs electricity, Croatia needs thermal power plants and hydroelectric power plants because it is a business for Croatian builders, Croatian equipment manufacturers, electricity industry etc. Croatia needs investment in ports, but in order to do so it needs railways. It is again a space for Croatian business people and the Croatian private sector. Therefore, so many opportunities that by investing in our own resources we increase and GDP I would say we reduce imports because we see that imports are a problem of falling economic growth because it is too big because we import energy. And not to mention importing derivatives, and we have two refineries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93517	Next replica, Honorable Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93518	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would not agree with you about the prime minister and his brief presentation on the proposal for the 2015 Budget. He actually said today that this proposal for the 2015 Budget is not perfect or developed and social and that such qualifications are horrified or that it is real and responsible for it. And if that's why he said it because he didn't talk about reforms because it would have been seen on the spending side, he wasn't talking about investments, he wasn't talking about Plomin, he wasn't talking about OMBLA, he wasn't actually talking about the Peljesk bridge or the lowline. Because that would already be developmental, and that's actually the opposite of his beliefs. He still wants to be real and responsible, and we don't really understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93519	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93520	I'm always talking about my impression, simply thousands of pages written, the arguments we can and don't have to agree with, are the basis that the advisors could write a quality speech to the prime minister. You can defend a budget like this, you can defend yourself in any way. But then it must be respected to sit and work on it and try to send messages to us in the Parliament and to the citizens of Croatia and to Croatian entrepreneurs. Apparently, the Prime Minister didn't want that. For me, it is something that I find difficult to understand that on a basic document you do not respect either the work of your professional services or that you want to send certain messages. Sending the budget like this is real, is that a state speech? So for me, really, no comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93521	The Republic will now be presented by Vice President of the House, Honorable Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Linic, you mentioned two things that I absolutely agree with, but maybe it's good to explain them a little bit. It's one question of health funding. When we look at what happened in 2014 then the actual incomes of HZZO were about 18.03 billion. And then, in this budget, they have now increased 3.2 billion of those resolutions that don't apply at all to 2014 and then came to a total of 21.2 billion. And then it was announced that next year, only 20.66 billion will be spent in 2015, and it was claimed that it would actually remain to say a surplus of 1.04 billion and as it will be saved, and actually when it is looked at, it is a cost increase of 2.64 billion. And that's real. And this year a new income deficit was created, so let's call it, about 2 billion. Thus, it will not be reduced by more than 1 billion health costs but will increase by just over 2 billion. So, that should be very clear because it's a delusion one that's trying to get through in this budget. And the other thing that I think you've detected very well is that because of lack of courage for real reforms, lack of knowledge to boost the economy and to encourage investment is trying to save the budget by selling assets. It certainly is not the right way, it is certainly not the best thing to do is to try to compensate for the inability to manage and attract investment by selling assets that are very doubtful whether they will succeed and actually get more than 1 billion as far as the item is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93523	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93524	I haven't been able to stay long enough on health reform, under quotes. Because getting HZO out of the Treasury is not a reform. But only seriousness, comes out HZZO, and clinical hospital centers enter the state budget. And now I'm asking you to come out HZZO, do the county budgets go into other hospitals, do they go in? No, I don't. And should we come in? Well, we should get in. Therefore, it is absolutely unprepared that the analogue organisation of the state budget must also have the organisation of the local budget. They are in rehab, the state is resuscitating them, but they still know who their owners are. So if the state gets the money for hospitals, and we're still going to have some kind of control over how it's done, that's what the county's supposed to do. It's completely unprepared, and then it's not weird, that 5 billion were spent on rehab in the previous two years of debt. They're created new, how many, we'll find out. But this only shows that the recovery was carried out without the necessary reforms so as not to receive new debts. And so we now have new debts, and let's be honest how much total it's going to be, we'll probably find out in a year when unfortunately, either the new government or someone outside is calculating it. Therefore, health care as well as the pension system are permanent deficits in our budget and we failed to resolve them within four years of the government's mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93525	A new replica and respected Jasen Mesic follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93526	Dear fellow Linic, you mentioned several times this phrase is a realistic budget. It's a big question how real it is. Is it based on projected growth of 0.5%. If we remember the budgets proposed in the last two, three years, no budget forecast envisioned by certain budgetary growth, the budgetary growth of business activities and the gross social product has been achieved. What I want to tell you, and I told you that when you were Minister of Finance, I'm suspicious that the Minister of Finance has any knowledge of how funds are spent in certain ministries. Do you know what "New" or "Croatian House" Foundation or investment in non-profit media means? And you were talking about thinking that the state should be the one to give a clear message of investment, investment, investment. So whether it's a restoration of immovable cultural goods, whether it's an investment in new cultural institutions, whether it's a program called entrepreneurship in a culture that's designed to stimulate those people who want to open a gallery, a restoration studio, some small bookstore, some small publishing company to give him help with certain initials, buy some equipment, buy some space or something. Such items are reduced and items that go to foundations have increased since any effect on any economic growth has not been on either an increase in employment or something else we would expect. That's where all the ministries are held accountable. It is not good what the finance minister does to simply limit the budget and say fit into it, and does not control the item per item. Is definitely what you should do?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93527	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93528	Well, you know, unlike you, I'd almost agree that it's real. Why? For the first time, the Government says I will not work and will not invest in the capital of companies, i.e. in the wealth of Croatia and in jobs. So the government won't have to be ashamed to say no more economic growth because I haven't made any investments. So the question remains just how much the finance minister has realistically assessed the risk of those tax reliefs and I would say the risk associated with the VAT collection of the charged realisation. And if that's real, I believe that on the revenue side it'll almost be real if the government doesn't have any obligations. The problem is when you impose a development program on the government, then it has to be realized, so it doesn't realize it, so it's a failure. And on the other hand, when it comes to spending, don't be surprised, if you don't have an increase in the number of employees, if you don't have an investment, if you don't have the government's responsibility in asset management, you have to cut, and you cut, anything other than what's centralised and where you answer or someone doesn't get paid, etc. And why do you care about entrepreneurs, even if they are entrepreneurs in culture who create the cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia, first you cut it off. So the main problem is, we cut because the government doesn't create, it doesn't create new jobs, it doesn't create a working atmosphere around investments that will mean income growth in the Republic of Croatia. And maybe that's why we think it's going to be real.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93529	The replica of the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, if we were to ask all the people who deal with finance now, I think they'd be very little apart in what's the most vulnerable part of this budget and what's basically the only solution. And maybe if you and my colleague Lalovac and I sat down, you'd be very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, However, what you yourself said, the morning the Prime Minister sent a message in a completely wrong direction. So he simply did not apostrophe of Croatia's problems, although frankly speaking despite some of the SDP colleagues in replicas trying to call on this, this government at this point has a completely crystall situation that he can't, which he hasn't done. And whatever was going to be in next year's election at the 11th month then she had to propose a real budget with all the problems and vulnerabilities you have, and also with all the advantages. Because look, it is inconceivable to me that in Croatia, now I will not address any political party, we are finally able to say that Rijeka Port is a wealth of Croatia and that all that money hundreds of millions we invested through the World Bank in the Port of Rijeka without a low-level railway or as it will already be called does not mean anything. If we're already talking about a lot of energy independence, what about that LNG terminal? Will it be? The sand bridge, it will be, won't it? If we didn't draw it to this point that it's a strategic thing she's never gonna draw. HEP and I will repeat it to the unconscious, we have raised the price of electricity 25% and Croatian citizens have already paid 2.5 years, HEP has not invested a dime in addition to arresting 200 party or 300 party initiators. Back in the day, one Buljubašic was a problem, and today 200 or 300 are not a problem. And so that's the taste of the problem, and we can have a political fight here in one way or another. Whether we manage that with our property or not to manage our property.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93531	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93532	...and tell me what my biggest problem is in macroeconomic movements, 0.7% down. We come for a million 300 thousand employees. The government and the coalition in the election year go with that unacceptable number, a million and 300 thousand. A million 300 grand means we'll never solve a $17 billion deficit in a pension fund, ever. You need 500 thousand more employees to at least relieve him so as to ease you. And we're going to cut the number of employees in the last year, we're going to cut. It's a message that in order to explain the prime minister's message, it's terrible, it's terrible. And let's be honest with that same prime minister, so is it possible that he says that with 44% of the INA shares he can't buy the funds that have 7% so let's let 5% buy 2% buy, 51% have with 50.01 he's taking over the management of INA on 2 billion spending in refineries, he's the one who's going to show that we're going to have our own derivatives, not from imports. That's the prime minister. In the last year, it's supposed to be messages. What are his messages? It's been sold what we can do here. What are we talking about? And then, of course, the result is 0.7% less employed because I guess he figured both refineries would be closed, maybe that's included inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93533	Followed by a replica of the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93534	Thank you very much. You were also talking about 17 billion kuna deficits in the pension system, so that it can't be compensated with 500 thousand more employees, but we have a problem with mandatory pension funds replacing all Croatia's pension problems, except I would never give such funds any lip to keep or invest, and that's not mentioned at all. I agree with everything you say about the government. We have an INA we have HEP, but I don't agree with it entirely, we don't have INA, someone gained more than 50% in a hidden and illegal way, and that's obvious. And I wonder what a competent institution is doing to control it to expose, expose and judicially break such invalid contracts. But when we talk about the budget and you say the state didn't invest, so you should tell us who failed in that system. You made three budgets of four possible and planned for 2013. 1.8%, and 3% in 2014, 3.5% in 2015 and national fixed capital investments did you plan 11.5% in the first year. So who made that appointment? It's someone. You're criticizing them. Please tell us that we know exactly who scheduled which ministries, which persons, which ministers. And then if you had resigned because of that, you wouldn't have just agreed with your findings but would have even appreciated them more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93535	We will also hear the answer to this replica, the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93536	I always said the simplest thing was failed by the Prime Minister if he knew very well and they were written in government documents how much investments in HEP will be in what will be and who is responsible. Just as it will be with HZ and restructuring... it even seems to me the Prime Minister is the head of the construction of the Rijeka-Zagreb border railway, the leader. He's the one who was supposed to run the investment, decide, help if he needed to be stuck somewhere in the documents. We're not going to talk about INA investments again, the prime minister, he's also appointed his head man to the supervisory board. And you know a purely brief suggestion, if someone actually acquired majority property, then Prime Minister Orban has shown a thousand times how to deal with everything and those who harm the Hungarian state. He's the one he's often set an example to follow. Thus, the government has a number of measures to calculate if someone has acquired something illegal and has something hidden. But we're always going back to the first man, and that's where there's no need to go down on a single minister or anything else. It is essential that the government presents the government to the first man, however.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93537	The replica is now presented by a respected colleague, Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93538	Thank you. Comrade Linic, you mentioned that the state would sell apartments through DUDI. In 2000, the state took over the property of Third May shipyards, including third-party apartments. For 10 years, nothing happened to those apartments so that in 2011, the state would just sign up as the owner of those apartments. Now these apartments are offered to tenants at 800 euros per square. I wonder who's gonna buy these apartments when they're part of those people who are already in those apartments or retired, some of them are at the employment office, some of them are in front of, before retirement. Minister Vrdoljak said we've solved the shipbuilding, and we'll be able to solve the apartments easily. However, nothing has been resolved yet, these apartments have been offered to buy them out without any discounts, and I'm afraid no one will have to buy these apartments, but simply these tenants will be left without them, they won't have apartments and the state will have new social cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93539	Thank you. My colleague Linic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93540	I don't like to go back in the long run, so the house sales law could be used by anyone who lived in those apartments. They could've been employed in May 3rd, they could've bought favourable apartments. They didn't, because they didn't have funds or they weren't interested, that's their business. The shipbuilding debts unfortunately also paid off with the property. Why? Because May 3rd stayed the owner when they didn't want people to buy it. And they no longer have the right to ask for good prices, they have no right because the law they were five years old. But also let's not scare people. Whether to sell it, whether people buy it will depend on them again but if they are poor because they have lost their jobs because they have small incomes no one will drive them out of those apartments. They're tenants in that apartment. They will continue to be in relation to the state and the users of the apartment as tenants. And it will sell what is either empty or there is a will to buy but the truth is not under more favourable conditions, under market conditions. And I think we need to understand that the time of transition in which the social property was converted and privatized, so it was and the housing was over, it passed. And I guess you can see that this country is so poor it can't give anymore, it can't, regardless of the social picture of the citizens, but the citizens could buy it. On May 3rd, a worker could buy and could not be prevented by the shipyard. Therefore, it is important to offer him, the one who can buy, the one who will not stay as a tenant in that apartment. The state won't throw him out, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93541	Thank you. And the last replica of Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93542	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Linic, you said during your presentation that you expected the prime minister to enter the battle for the deficit. And we remember a year ago in this House when he presented the 2014 budget he believed in what he was saying but in the six minutes today it was seen that he didn't believe what he was saying. And when we look at the budget, we see on the expenditure side that nothing was cut, and that's what we in particular in the HDZB resent that in the first year of his term he didn't cut anything. But on the revenue side, he said today a very important sentence, borrowing is not a solution. So when you look at the budget next year, 38.5 billion income from financial assets and borrowings. So the prime minister resorted to that solution just to read as his line, the budget is real. But when I ask my question to a daughter who goes to kindergarten and she's three years old, your daughter when she gives you 14 candy to eat in kindergarten and four of you take from a friend, what do you have to do with those four tomorrow? So come back. Well, you see, the budget and budget users are like 14 candy and we borrowed 4 from someone else what we have to pay back tomorrow. Therefore, it is also evident to children in kindergarten that this budget is not realistic, that it is inconclusive, and if our credit rating falls next year, I am afraid we will not be able to repay these 38.5 billion kunas and we will not be able to finance both our liabilities and our deficits and everything that comes to us next year. Therefore, our estimates in the HDSSB are that in 2016 we have a game over and that's what we see already in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93543	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93544	The risks of the budget, if I'm not mistaken, are also well explained by the state budget. The 1st crisis on the European market and the backbone of economic growth of 0.5 is exports. The problem, therefore, is whether Europe will be stable because there will be no exports. But there's something else. I return indifference again, it increases, indifference will be the cause of our economy's incompetence so it will be a problem and achieve this... It's just another little problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, the second price of capital and the capital market that, with a very small change, can bring a billion kunas of higher interest expenditure. Yes, these are huge risks that are present, which are unequivocal but are also determined in this budget, they are determined. So it's always a question of whether we have any reserves, whether we have any solutions if those risks take place. We don't have them. We simply don't have them, and that risk just means that unfortunately we're going to have to borrow and we're simply going to have a bigger debt. I also don't believe there's going to be 2 billion revenues from privatisation, I don't know what's going to be privatized, I don't know. I know that last year we had Croatia's insurance, so Croatia's insurance, I apologize, the Post office bank failed because it was a bad price. But what now? So there's risk, not for deficits but for duty. Yes, duties will certainly be far greater than we plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93545	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Krešimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's our 2015 budget. The other day we were discussing rebalancing, is that he arrived late and I don't believe the 2014 budget will come as well. Realize. But I just saw that in front of the Parliament they're setting the pine, going Christmas, we see the pine outside, but when we look at this budget for 2015 then for Slavonia and Baranja boja under that pine we don't see anything, because just now when I'm replicating the prime minister, when I'm talking about Slavonia and Baranja he said there'll be liquid help for you something more next year. It reminds me of what you stand in front of the church and beg because you are in a difficult situation, so here we will give you liquid help. But capital investments in the budget for Slavonia and Baranja are gone in the following year, and that is what worries us, that is what tells us that we will be against this budget, but as a responsible club, we will invest amendments as we have done in recent years to point out what is not good, try and show on the spending side what needs to be cut. But when a man looks at things in order, he has a lot to waste, but he saves himself on some things. Let's just say a moment ago when I looked at the restoration and development of Vukovar from 44 million to 40. So we'll save on Vukovar, then it's really bad. But when you look at the position, the air transport, the government is high in the clouds, 11 million 228 thousand, so I must admit that I was surprised when the prime minister saw the asphalting in his street this morning because it's exactly 11 million and 228 thousand kunas that have plenty of room to cut. These are some only items because a man can look at larger items, he can look at these individual ones, but what is evident is that there are no capital investments, there are no investments, but when it comes to economic growth and all those promises, there are a lot of lies. Looking back over the past six years, seeing as we have gone into crisis, this budget does not offer perspective, does not offer economic growth, but in the following year in what we have entered, which is one debt slavery, there are many risks that await us, here is what Mr Linic was just talking about in his reply to the replica. Both European and world markets, but we know that in Germany today, people pay what people keep money in banks. Therefore, Croatia has the opportunity at this time to get the cheap money, but the question is what will be the year, especially when our... rating falls. I remember last year when the prime minister spoke for this speaker not six minutes like this year but half an hour and talked about a responsible policy, and that there was an irresponsible borrowing for years. So when you see Croatia in debt over the past 20 years, then we must admit that this government is undefeated, that they have surpassed the former HDZ government, so I would say that in this term, this government will be in charge of what some may be in 2, even 3 mandates. What is missing in Croatia is new jobs, but the other day I remember when my colleague Shucker was talking about income tax, so when we combined a small number of non-growing employees, and the number of unemployed falls, then suddenly you see that 100 000 people were lost from Croatia, because normally this government did not open 100,000 jobs, but people went to Sweden, Canada, Norway, Denmark, especially people from Slavonia and Baranja, and that's what our heart hurts. But this budget for 2015 does not offer optimism but says ours in Slavonia this budget holds water while red leaves, but it is not the key to leaving or coming, the key is to crush what is difficult, which is to step on the spending side of the budget. And we from the HDSSB welcome the decision of Minister Lalovac the other day to go to find him, says in finding 5 billion kuna on the spending side. We think that's good. That's all I had to do three years ago. In fact, when we look at the budget then it is important that it offers economic growth, price stability, full employment, a positive external trade balance, but when we look at macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia, then none of these parameters will be realised next year. The availability of state property for years I think it's cancer-random of the Republic of Croatia and we're not even aware of it, we still haven't listed all the assets, and I think it's high time that the government finally dealt with it and put it into office. We in the Croatian Parliament must reach consensus on both the expenditure and the income side because Croatia is already in such a situation that I fear 2016 will no longer have the opportunity to decide for ourselves what will happen afterwards. It has been spent years, even today on dozens of agencies, new employment, but what creates a new value does not. There are no new investments, and when we look at the European Union this period 2014-2020, we can say that in 2014 we have not withdrawn any lip, not one cent for the period 2014-2020. But when we look at budget cuts, especially in those responsible units of local and regional administrations that attracted funds, even before, Minister Grcic rejoiced that the Osijek project was good and that it would receive Osijek 72m euros. I have to admit, we've been doing all these things for four years, we've had 386 particles to rule out, we've worked hard. However, I would like to thank the Croatian waters, but I do not have much to thank Minister Greece for, but this project could not have been avoided, and I am therefore glad that we will realize it by the end of the next 2 and a few years. But when I watch what comes next, Osijek is cut down by 27 million kunas, Osijek will not be able to prepare or finance more projects in the coming years, and Osijek is not the only island in Croatia that has so far been successful in attracting European funds, and since next year it will not be possible to do so. Because when I replicated the prime minister then I was saying Osijek had a budget of 600 million, today it's at 400, and next year it might come to 350 million thanks to national policy and responsible policy towards local self-government units. So that's what we often hear from local administrations and self-government and that's the problem. Looking at this budget, looking at the state budget proposal for 2015, watching 119 billion kuna, the planned state budget deficit of 12 and a half billion, 3.8% of gross domestic product and looking at these 1106 pages of budget, and when we don't see Slavonia and Baranja, then we're certainly worried. Tax revenues in 2015 are planned at 64 billion kuna and are marked by a slight annual growth of 0.6%. I don't know what you're building on. I'd like to hear some answers from the Resistant Ministry. But also this year, we have witnessed a decrease in VAT revenue which will certainly be shown in the following year, precisely because of the possibility that people are not paying VAT immediately, but rather charged. There's got to be a cycle, we're gonna lose a step in those two, three months, and I'm afraid some invoices will never be charged. Profit tax, we see that we are increasingly inefficient, we see that even state-owned companies have not gone on an investment cycle. But a property tax is introduced, primarily a savings tax. The state is expanding the revenue side. We can even say hello, because we're about to take those who have and give to those who don't. But the problem in Croatia is that there are more and more people who do not have it and I'm afraid this budget will not be able to help the team exactly. Looking at the expenditure side, looking at 119 billion kuna, looking at all those costs of special material costs to all the other opinions, we're saying that it hasn't been cut, that it hasn't tried to come into normal frames, and that next year it's going to be two to three budget rebalances. Looking at the state budget financing account, looking at this huge debt again large debts both to refinance debts and to open new debts. So we didn't do anything to get it under control, and I'm expecting problems next year without talking about what's going to happen in 2016. The privatisation income is expected to be 2 billion, so I'd like to hear from the Ministry what you're privatizing, which you may not be. Looking at this very spiral of borrowing it is very large and any government responsible would try to stop it, but always in the first year of office, and in the fourth go with what encourages them to perhaps get a good result in the next election. But that won't be in this budget. Well, for that reason, I'm sure the prime minister had a very short speech today. In view of the proposal for a consolidated state budget and the financial plan of extra budget beneficiaries for 2015, 2016 and 2017, we see that total expenditure from 134 billion goes to 143. So that's where we boost the spending side with all the budget users. But when we look at certain items and look at billions and 100,000 kunas cut into health care, we wonder what will happen by the end of the year. How much additional funding will have to be provided with. I'm sorry there's no health minister today, so I'd like to ask him. Here's his mandate, actually once, and then another minister, and they couldn't hold one C.T. contest in the city of Osijek, i.e. At the Clinical Hospital Center to get what's important to our citizens, and hundreds of millions and billions are spent on health care. What does not attract investors is tax instability in the Republic of Croatia and it is certainly a limiting factor. Investors bypass us, strategic investments bypass us. Looking at the positions of Croatian defenders and ministry 984 million just 15.6 million to hire defenders. It's one of the burning problems and there you should have provided more resources. EU revenue plan 7.1 billion kuna. We won't have any part of it, the local administration won't have any part of it, and there'll be a problem. The MUP looking at 100 million kunas that won't be paid, and that's where you'll have a problem. But I'm sure the police will push those debts away from this government and you'll have to raise the amount with your first rebalancing. Looking at transport infrastructure, we see that 5.9 billion are expected from the EU, 2016. 6,100, 2017. 7,400. We're just wondering where Slavonia and Baranja are. But by looking at demining, seeing as you cut off funds in the coming year, you do not offer the possibility that Slavonia and Baranja, who suffered most in the war, would be demining, would be a problem. And even when we look at the expenditure side, when you cut at the Ministry of Economy 167 million, the Ministry of Science also on some other items, then we certainly see that no perspectives are offered, what must be invested is not invested. The relationship between pensioners and workers in Croatia is quite disproportionate. But surely there are many who receive wages and do not work. Takes must be detected by all ministries, especially agencies. Therefore, the government and all ministers must be bitten into this problem. In the following year you are also taking a second pension stake, you will bridge and care for 2015, but there is a problem in 2016 which will probably not be your problem. Looking at the debt of the general state and stability, you say to 82% of the gross social product that it will stabilize. We're afraid with this kind of policy and this kind of budget that it's not going to happen. So miracles would have to happen. Looking at the mass of what the prime minister has managed to say in those six minutes is not a solution, but the prime minister does not offer solutions. Therefore, looking at this budget, looking at what is written by the Committee on Fiscal Policy, and seeing that Slavonia and Baranja are not in capital investments, then the HDSB club cannot support this. It can only point out through amendments that there are a lot of these costs that leaks, a lot of things where you should chop holes. But here's the government seems to have no desire or will to change that. I expected the prime minister to make a quick move in his speech today, but he probably spent his energy on some intrinsic battles. I don't think those battles matter, that the battle for the budget, for the deficit, is a crucial battle for a better life in Croatia and that's what the HDZB would support. But that's not happening. Therefore, it did not touch the expense side. The income goes into significant new borrowings, but this comes to an end. And it is certain that today's Prime Minister's words are not encouraging, and it is also very difficult to say about the Greek Minister's forecasts because we know that no forecast has ever come true. And even when we talk about forecasting and attracting European funds, we here in Slavonia and Baranja have knowledge and we are certainly well known for our considerable resources, but when we look at the budget, when we know what happens to the units of local and regional administration, then we can say that this process will also stop next year. Therefore, by looking at all this, we can say no to this kind of governance, not to this kind of budget management, not to this kind of leadership of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93547	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93548	Dear colleague Bubalo, yes, it is saddened that when the prime minister, you said that there was enough of such state leadership, you did not even make a minimum effort for 5 minutes of demagogy to more passionately defend what he said before, that even such a budget could be defended but should work for a few days, effort should be made. However, this was today a shameful and underestimating parliament and underestimating all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Imagine what was ordered to Slavonia, of 128 units of local self-government 117 units will receive assistance. And that's the government policy of the Republic of Croatia. So put your hand out or put your hat on the floor and we'll throw something in. What have they done with the land and people of the rich Slavonia? They've built a region that needs to be helped. And I think we're also in the rebalancing of the budget, so you can rely on the European funds, and we'll give you something. And 50% of the land in the Republic of Croatia is abandoned. Not because the Croatian people are lazy, because there is no politics, there is no strategy. No one protects domestic production. So it's all said. Today, the prime minister is not referring to agriculture in a single word, or if he may not have heard it, I didn't hear it. To what we used to be when we were self-sufficient in food production, when we had surpluses, we have to beg today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93549	Answer me, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93550	Here's my colleague Vuksic and I don't think the prime minister went to all the trouble to say something today, he estimated it was better not to say anything because the citizens of the Republic understood what he was saying and those forecasts he presented in the past year. But you said earlier it was 127 units of the local administration of Slavonia and Baranja, 117 will get help. So we often say you don't need to help us just let us work. And that was seen by the European funds, the most European funds we've withdrawn. But when you look at these 127 units of local administration 10 will have fewer budgets, and in these 10 units of local administration live 45% of the population and 52% of the fiscal capacity of Slavonia and Baranja, it is precisely in those 10 units of local self-government. Therefore, it is seen that most will actually lose and will not win. And getting it would make it look like a hat. But recently, I also warned on the rebalancing that what we received in early or late 2013, and in early 2014, the budget recently reduced the rebalance on capital investments by 49 million kuna. That's the problem. And then I'm sure I'm worried about the prime minister's health and his right hand. And even when I see that he's cut up a billion and 100 million in health care, then I'm particularly concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93551	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93552	Thank you very much. You mentioned the Prime Minister's opening statement twice, which you said lasted six minutes. But he's a great prime minister because there are ministers, for example. The strategy for the industrial development of the Republic of Croatia, which means the economy minister, is in 2 minutes. So, he's not a recordr, he's the economy minister and I guess the Deputy Prime Minister is really a recordr of 2 minutes, so the Strategy of such a very important document as the industrial development of Croatia. So, the Industrial Development Strategy. We saw that about two months ago in this House. So, what's important is that I continue on about the Ministry of Economy, strategic investment. So, a year ago, we passed the Strategic Investments Act we hear about these days from the government's official circles that this law simply failed, that something else must be done. And I wonder what actually worked? The government and the ministries act like drunk rich people. Just look at the new premises, look at the property of the Republic of Croatia and the list, the register of how much property you want in the Republic of Croatia, and you'll see how many empty spaces there are, and how many countries in Croatia and its institutions are in lease, intentional or unintentional, in order to please someone and achieve some kind of criminal way of obtaining wealth and money, but an agreement. The agreed economy is actually being run. Furthermore, you talked about the water supply in Osijek and the value of 500 million kuna for the water pipeline in Slavonia, Osijek-Baranja County. Well, you see, 1500 years ago, there was an Inca city today in Chile Machu Pichu who had a water line at the time and there were no European funds, but at a height of 5 thousand meters in the Andes. And that's the achievement of today in a cloudy time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93553	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93554	Thank you very much. In fact, there's no prime minister here, so I wouldn't comment on the prime minister anymore, but when I talk about the economic development strategy and these two minutes, I think it was enough. But I remember when it was the Strategic Investments Act we discussed, so when counterpart Maric told us and the minister told us, he went to London. I kind of thought he'd bring investors from London, but neither did he bring investors from London, nor was it any of that of the Strategic Investment Act. We see it now needs to be changed. Maybe if they'd listened to that debate, maybe they'd have changed something in time. Therefore, in Croatia we see that some things have not changed in time but it is high time to realize that they have to be changed. So this kind of lethargy and this kind of nelado is certainly not welcome for next 2015. Is then waiting for us black 2016. But when we talk about the rents you talked about and the agreed economy, so surely we should review those contracts, conduct the audits, and that is the cost or expenditure side that Minister Lalovac could find coldly 5 billion kunas, but this should be done in the first year, not at the end of his term. But when we talk about EU projects Osijek has been successful here, I believe that it will continue to work on projects but they have been cut off a lot of funds that will surely make future work harder on projects and project ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93555	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93556	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, I would like to comment with you on two positions in this home, budgets. Yesterday, during the debate on the Law on the financing of local self-government units, we were assured of one thing, but today when we look at the draft budget, then we see that fellow Linic, you and I, and some of the others we discussed were right. Because if that part of the decentralised function is reduced from 12 to 6%, if the tax base is reduced by about 12%, then it's no longer 6% but below 5%. If before 12% was harvested somewhere around a billion and four hundred, then it's logical now to harvest somewhere around 600 million, so it's 800, 850 million. Last year's balancing fund was a billion and 207 million, this year a billion 510 million. So the simplest math difference is 240 million. And now a man's asking himself a question where did 600 million go? Who will make up for that 600 million for primary school, secondary school, county hospitals, social services, fire departments, etc. And the second position is that position at the finance ministry where it was once aiding local self-government units based on income censorship. As of this year, there has been income tax returns for those cities and municipalities that have been in the area of special state care. Last year, these two positions when they add up, actually this year, they're somewhere over 700 million, about 400 million returns, and 329 million were. However, this common position for next year is 500 million. Now, where did that 200 million go? And when we take only these two positions, the question is, who's going to replace the units of local self-government and especially those of the poorest 900 million? And now to say that one is given, if one is taken in this way, then it is at least not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93557	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93558	Comrade Shucker, I'm going to show you the map made by the City Association, who gets what, who loses what. Looking at what he's losing, they're losing the good part. In Slavonia and Baranja 11 units of local administration. And I was just saying that 45% of the population lives in these local administration units, and 52% of the budget is. But when you talk about these items in individual budgets, then I want to say that you are almost in all the items right. And local self-government units aren't going to lose what you said two billion, so by compensatory measures, we know that this is a smaller amount and that's about the same direction you were talking about. But looking at what happens next year and anyone who ran units of local administration or self-government knows what's going to happen, and there's going to be an increase in prices, communal prices, that's where we're thinking from garbage, transportation, kindergartens and everything else that can be eaten by cities, municipalities and counties from 2008 to today have cut budgets. And when I look at the budget of the City of Osijek in 2008, it was 600 million, we bring it to 400 million real 400 million, next year it's going to go to 350 million. And when you look at the budget of the Republic of Croatia from 2008 to today, it has grown. So, what world do we live in? This is the question that the government must ask itself, we must all bear together the burden, you cannot bear the burden of the crisis the units of local and regional self-government and our citizens. So, we also have to cut on the expense side, on the material costs, on all the things I've been talking about on flights, and some nonsense that is really stupid, to smart phones, official cars and all that, all those failures we've had these... Therefore, prices will go up, but I'm afraid there's going to be a slight inflation next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93559	Thank you. Hansel Mandic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bubalo, so I will not affect how you will vote on the budget, whether for or against, but given that with this budget and we are passing one set of laws that will bring to a much more favourable position the largest number of units of local self-government from Slavonia and Baranja, it means from 127 of them 117, and of those 117 of them there is one who has already used the funds, and of the 100 new largest comes from Slavonia. So you're against the injustice against the units of local self-government that come from where the two of us come from, that this injustice remains permanent. You see, it is my opinion that this budget is trying to balance between real expenditure and real revenue and that this budget is part of a six-year-old that the Republic of Croatia has entered and we are still in this budget that wants a large number of Croatian citizens working to get something more. I think that for these reasons, with all the weaknesses in the budget, I think this part of the crisis should not only be felt by citizens that we should feel as well as we as the central state and units of local self-government. Because I've been in the local self-government unit for a long time, and I can't say there's no reserve and there's no space. If we look only at the number of inhabitants and the number of employees in certain units of local self-government, then we see one disproportionate. But it's up to you to decide for yourselves as you wish, but by voting against this budget, you vote against all units of local self-government. If we go so simple and low-politically the largest number of local self-government units comes from other political options, they do not come from political options that are now at government level. And that's why I think this law is fair, and that's why we need to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93561	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93562	Dear fellow Mandic, we are not discussing the Regional Development Act, we are discussing the 2015 budget. You spoke earlier about current aids for 127 units of local self-government and 117 will have some more help. But when you add up your colleague Mandic, all of you help for the next year for all of Slavonia and Baranja, then you come to help them all as one small bypass around a developing city, all of which help in Slavonia and Baranja. But in this budget, my colleague Mandic, I pulled out every item for all five Slavonian-Baranja counties and looked at every capital investment. So take a look at fellow Mandic's capital investments for next year and anyone who supports this budget without Slavonia and Baranja and capital investments must really think twice about why he does it for purely party reasons or some others. Therefore, we are not for what you say about current aids, that is what is minimal and of course that undeveloped landscapes, and that is what Europe asks us to help undeveloped regions. Well, a lot of the fat ass had its tail smudged, so Slavonia had to get some liquid help. But what we're saying is there's no capital investment, there's no. There are no capital investments for Slavonia and Baranja fellow Mandic, I know that you would support these investments, but I expect you to at least support the HDSSB amendments that go towards both Djakova and for example the birthplaces in Djakov and those capital investments that are important for Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93563	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bubalo, you are such a relatively private man, so do you know that this is the best government in the history of the Republic of Croatia? Do you know that Croatia is finally on Europe's energy map? Do you know that the Rural Development Strategy is unmovable, Vice President, is it up to me to throw out your colleagues, I think, if you say so. Do you know that we have been waiting three years for the Rural Development Strategy because there are more than 300 objections from the European Commission? Did you know that for three years we've been preparing the Media Strategy we've even set up a special department to hire completely new people after we've replaced them because they were cultural ministers and now they're running the department? Of course there's nothing from the Media Strategy. Here's what some colleagues will know better. Did you know that we worked out a master's plan for the hospital for two years and then changed it to bring it in? The strategy of economic development as you yourself could hear about it we talked about for two minutes. We have sensational economic programs. Where do you live, Mr. Bubalo? So we have a proposal from the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts to take savings from citizens who are not... I'm actually surprised to you that you have no quality so look what quality this is before. The strategy of science remembers when we discussed adopting it unanimously in consensus, so we told them people but this is all beautifully written but it's inconclusive because there are no funds, look at the budget to reduce the funding for technological and scientific research. So where else? Well, it can't be a different budget. The prime minister can't talk more in five minutes about it when there are completely incompetent ministers in certain ministries who never saw these buildings until they took over the ministerial chairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93565	Thank you. I didn't interrupt my colleagues because I thought it was your natural environment that stimulates you by throwing you away, so I let you continue. Here's your answer, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93566	Thank you very much. Namely, you have probably heard today that I also praised this government for opening 100,000 jobs, but do not be afraid it is not that in Croatia it is in Canada, Sweden, Norway, Denmark. But I also have to admit when I come from Slavonia and Baranja that we are concerned about this Rural Development Strategy and the 377 objections that have arrived. Here's Minister Grcic bowed his head but I expect this government to resolve it. And 377 remarks are not small. So we have to get to work here and spend it because it's not going to help us with the Media Strategy, so we can see that we haven't even been helped by the master's hospital plan. But we are afraid that we have often talked about the media in recent years to help us with a public-private partnership, today we are talking about how the EU will help. We ourselves must help Mesic on both the expenditure and the revenue side of the budget. Therefore, we must reach a consensus in this House. Easiest and scrawny with these individual measures, incompetence or with this when Europe sends us 377 remarks. We certainly turn out to be insecure. But it's up to us to help the government and those of us sitting in the middle and you sitting on this side and those sitting on this side, and maybe the prime minister just spent all the energy he needed on solving the economic problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93567	Thank you. Nadica Jelish, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93568	Dear Vice President, Comrade Bubalo, you said in your debate that you would not support this 2015 Budget proposal, which is actually no surprise, but on the other hand, I am glad that you have changed your view on the savings tax. If you remember a few days ago when we talked, or discussed the bill, amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, then you did not support the savings tax and now you say it is good to take on those who have a lot and to take on those who do not. So I totally agree with you, I'm glad that you changed the position of the team more which will be the total amount that will be alimony of the savings tax directed to the units of local self-government and you as the former head of the local self-government unit and you know how much you appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93569	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93570	Namely, colleague Jelash, we are always ready on this side to accept what is good, also to criticize what is bad, so I have to say that 99.9% are exactly critical because we want Croatia to move forward, we want it to be better. But also when we talk about tax and property i.e. Real estate tax, we suggested if you're already introducing it, make the first pilot project. Because any serious government would do the first pilot project, not right away... Especially people in Slavonia and Baranja who can neither sell real estate nor get rid of their problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you spoke earlier about the savings tax, about those 50,000 people who save in Croatia. I'd say 50, tops, 75 grand that have money. Well, if you're advocating social policy, then you should take on the rich. But I expected in this budget that you would hit banks as well as our neighbors and others to patch up the revenue side. But no, you go into debt because you certainly have no power, no responsibility to strike those who run the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93571	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned health problems that are really big but that are not being solved at all, especially with this budget. So far we are nowhere in the public or from the government and neither have we heard today why HZO is actually being separated from the Treasury and what are the advantages if there are any that will happen next. There's been a lot of talk about it, but everything without any real explanation. So no one, I repeat, it's not clear to anyone why it's done. The logic of things is to take the money out of one pocket and put it in another pocket but less than one billion. So it's at first sight like that. However, it wasn't even done that, but it's doing some kind of weird hybrid thing that doesn't exist anywhere because hospitals are being singled out and these hospitals are actually being left in the budget but actually budgets, they're not actually going to be left in the budget because they're still going to invoice their services to HZZO, HZZO will pay these services still only by depositing in a single state budget account. It's still unclear to anyone under God's care whether it's the Ministry of Finance's intensities for hospitals to become branch offices of the treasury or not to become one. So there's one whole series of vague things about it that I'm not saying that absolutely when it was designed nobody thought that the hospital's business should be in line with a series of laws, regulations and decisions, not just the Budget Law, but the Health Insurance Act, the Health Protection Act, etc., I could now list 20 of them, which absolutely nobody was counting on. And we're in a strange situation, and no one in this country knows how to answer exactly how to finance which hospital after this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93573	Here's your answer, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93574	Thank you very much. So here's what the budget says is how it's going to be financed, some of them are going to be financed from a budget like KBC Osijek. But I have to admit when it hurt when I saw that the hospital was at the bottom and I know we have excellent doctors, excellent staff. But when we talk about health care and this cutting of a billion and a hundred million kunas, we think that the rebalancing will have to be corrected. But it hurts me as a citizen of the city of Osijek, when people tell me they can't get in line for one CT and ministers change and four years can't run a CCT contest. Now that is our problem as well as other technical problems, and that is exactly what the citizens of Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja, Osijek Clinical Hospital Centre as a regional hospital center deserve. But what hurts us especially, which is when something is done to make simulations. And that's what we were saying, we didn't say populistly when that part on health, it was shrinking 15 to 13, we were against it. But we were also against it when it increased from 13 to 15, and that shows one wandering. Well, first you have to do a simulation. First you have to rationalize the business and then you can only reduce something. Therefore, if we are to manage the Republic of Croatia responsibly, then a simulation must be made. However, these simulations are lagging behind and I am sure that they exist in the Croatian Institute, there are competent people who will help the government with this and the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health. We must therefore work together to make our health system work better, to be more efficient because we have recognised experts but unfortunately experts who are increasingly going outside Croatia or into politics which is even worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93575	Thank you. Jakša Marasovic. Dujomir Marasovic, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93576	And let Jaksha, let him. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Bug, take care of yourself... And when he brings gifts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, the prime minister was too long for us, obviously in front of the entire Parliament, but it was nothing compared to the last time Dragovan and Baja petted Buric's upper arm for three minutes, and then Buric started screaming at me neither guilty nor due. So, you said you were sad and worried that health care was reduced by a billion and a hundred thousand kunas. Don't be, Slavonia, don't be sad. Nothing this is any reduction. This is eye-stuttering to the public, this is a self-defying. The Prime Minister didn't want to understand me today. Not that he doesn't understand, he knows what it's about, and he's opting for a different policy and that's it. But I feel sorry for you, so you don't accidentally take it as a reduction. Health care will spend 25 to 27 billion regardless of what Bubalo, Marasovic or the prime minister are talking about. In this health care system, health care will spend it. And it's pointless to talk about any reductions and rationalization. The government doesn't understand. The prime minister, I tried to tell him today two, three figures that two million kunas alone will spend more than he wrote in the budget. So he poured some hot water on me, didn't want me hot as hell something I spent, drank the same... It just pushes away responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in Split, the SDP firm for 4 years before me made 240 million kunas, and I in 8 years 5 and a half million positives. And now he has declared that Split hospital the best clinical hospital center based on parameters not of two days, but in continuity for many years. So let the prime minister go. The bug will spend the health care money, the government doesn't have the strength or not, it doesn't want to deal with the problems, it doesn't want to deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93577	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93578	E Duje, Duje. I'm also always afraid that... They wear gifts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But looking at the former HDZ government, I can't say they brought something to Slavonia and Baranja, and looking at this is even worse towards Slavonia and Baranja. That Duje what you were doing at the Split hospital, so you probably had a positive 'cause you had Sanader. While he was taking Slavonia, he was giving Dalmatia. We're glad to have Dalmatia, but we'd like it even more if Slavonia and Baranja got it, too. But looking at us in Osijek, we can observe both HDZ and SDP, because right in the city of Osijek is the HDZ and SDP coalition, so when you look at this borrowing, and when you watch the inn in the country, I think it's going to be the most recent example of Osijek exactly what is going to be done next year, two days in terms of borrowing and urban destruction. So what you mentioned about Buric is not true. But I can say as a representative of the HDSSB that we were always ready to support what was good coming from this side or from the other side or from the middle. And we will do this for Croatia in the future, because good things should be supported, bad things should be criticised and solutions offered, and that is the imperative of HDSSB policy. That's what we'll do in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93579	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93580	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, I will not agree with this final finding. HDZ has really invested a lot in Slavonia we all know that together. But good political thinking is not good for us right now. But I fully agree that at this moment what was promised to Slavonia is not being executed. First of all, I would refer to these catastrophic floods in our county of Požega-Slavonska and, of course, to your Osijek-Baranja. I asked the Prime Minister here to do exactly with my own influence, and based on the law passed by this government in 2014 in the first month to enable Požega-Slavon County to build a dikes costing 10 million kuna by speeding up the process as they say in their law. And he's just deafened to my request. It is only an indication that there is not a bit of human will with all the laws that this government has passed, the Law on Construction in 2014 which says that in extremely difficult situations due to the conditions of war, because of the floods, because of this, it can be built without a building permit. And the prime minister himself said he'd cut off his left hand if he cut Slavonia off in anything. I'm not looking for anything or to the right, I'm not looking for anything except a good will to say you're building, and after building, you're looking for and you need to get all the documentation you need to get out so that 500 households are not in danger again, as it was in Požega-Slavon County. So, what does it matter to keep talking? That in my budget, the city of Pacrac, which had 11 million kunas, now has 6 million kunas. He was taken 5 million and 600, and he got 4 and 100, and he has to pay 4 and 100 back to people through income tax returns.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93581	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93582	Well, fellow Lucic, here you are defending Sanader still, but we think he ran a failed policy against Slavonia. Maybe he invested in some private firms. That's what Mr. Ronko was talking about recently, but I don't need to repeat it. But we believe that it was a missed policy because these companies ended up in bankruptcy or pre-banking situations. But what you said earlier about floods and rashes. Well, I still don't know who's to blame for breaking the dikes and who's been doing those dikes, but when it comes to war conditions and what happened to Slavonia and Baranja after the war is exactly the best way to say these maps of development, that one good policy towards Slavonia and Baranja would probably never have been created by HDSSB, probably. For in Slavonia and Baranja was not guided, according to Slavonia and Baranja, there was no good policy. There was no investment, there was no capital investment, there was no concern about agriculture except when Glavas took the wheel and cried out that wheat had to be paid at a known price, that it had to be helped farmers. Then the governments listened to Zagreb. Therefore, we again hear the voice from Slavonia and Baranja because it is precisely the underdevelopment and development coefficient that indicates that Slavonia and Baranja are undeveloped and that we are talking about and that there have been good policies that you are talking about, including the Sanaders. Then that map wouldn't look like that today, it'd be so different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93583	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bubalo, Slavonia and Lika, at least it was in the Homeland War, and we admired each other. And why I'm saying that Slavonia and Lika are our dicks, because here in my county capital investment 0 kuna, just like you in Slavonia. But maybe that's a good thing. Look, the 2015 budget is based on 0.5% growth. All countries in Europe and the world are fighting for economic growth because then the number of employees goes up, right. That's normal. That's normal thinking for everyone except our prime minister. 0.5 predicted economic growth, and we heard 0.7% reduction in the number of employees. It doesn't go with each other. Maybe we should turn around, that up until now they've been planning economic growth was negative 1.2% and then the number of employees on the upward path, now they're planning economic growth and the number of employees on the descending path. As far as the masterplan is concerned, you mentioned the hospital, no capital investments, not in Slavonia and Lika, it is not in Croatia, it is not in health care. Masterplan predicts the development of daily hospitals. What does that mean? Only with HZZO day hospital surgery is scheduled daily in KBC Zagreb, which means you have to invest in equipment, that you have to invest in a coma, that you have to invest in space, and there is no kuna in the budget. 400 doctors are leaving us. So there is unfortunately no capital investment in Croatia as a whole, and again I say, on the basis of 0.5% of economic growth, this government foresees a reduction in employees. Maybe Lici and Slavonia don't exactly invest, we might grow...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93585	Thank you. In a word, Deputy Prime Minister Branko... Answer, excuse my colleague Bubalo. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93586	Thank you very much. In fact, you said nicely that Slavonia and Baranja and Lika were once our Dick, but we are convinced that this can happen again because it is these places that have been systematically ignored for years that have just been crying out for investment. These are areas that have both projects and project solutions because just when you look at Slavonia and Baranja, many have moved to Slavonia and Baranja from BiH, Dalmatia and like. Therefore, in the hope of a better life and lived better in Slavonia and Baranja, but when we look at these failed policies where Slavonia and Baranja are today, we must change things. And when you're talking about growth of 0.5%, but when you're looking at the drop since 2008, it's almost 15%, and we're supposed to be looking forward to you, 0.5. It's nothing. Therefore, it will not help Croatia, and it is this reduction in the number of employees that affects the budget the most, both state and city, municipality and county. But when you talk about equipment, KBC, I just mentioned a device that is necessary for Osijek, but we also know that this technique is necessary for our doctors to do the job. And we have top doctors. So why is 400 doctors leaving us now for what you just said outside of Croatia? Well, because they know they're top-notch and they recognize top doctors in the world. And why don't we in Croatia recognize them and reward them more? So it happens to us that just now from the SDP, they said we have 200,000 people we can't hire. The unemployed say, and 100,000 people have gone outside of Croatia, the most pro-pulsive, the best. We must therefore create conditions and encourage such employment as I was talking about encouraging the employment of Croatian defenders who were the most exposed to their lives for the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is a policy, a systematic policy when it comes to Croatian defenders. That's what's missing from this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93587	Thank you. On behalf of Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93588	Thank you. Here's just a few reviews. There's really a lot of things being said here, it wouldn't be possible to answer all of that, but just two or three cross-sectional icons. So first of all, the government's policy and then the budget, this is a government that is social democratic and decided not to touch pensions, not to touch social benefits and to protect it maximumly. So that's our strategic goal, so we set ourselves up. So these two categories have to stay safe until the end, as long as possible, and I'll explain why from a macroeconomic point of view. Thirdly, the salaries in the public sector that we finance, that's where we also tried to minimally get paid. We are a little bit like the previous government, but the salaries have remained relatively intact compared to the salaries in many countries in our environment and probably the European Commission and some other institutions, the IMF and the World Bank would like to see that like in Romania we cut salaries, cut social benefits, cut pensions. We will not do so in our term of office. And all other policies when it comes to the budget are focused on other categories and were saved on other categories. As the crisis lasts long, so did the savings effect, unfortunately, that there is an increasing amount of money for the capital investments you are talking about from tax revenues, but we have been waiting for this opportunity, which is that entering the European Union opens up a huge space for financing capital investments from donated, donated funds, free of charge and free of charge. And now we're where we are, so we all have to put ourselves into it. It certainly isn't this project Kerestinec archive building etc. For which you called me, I have nothing to do with it or I know what the project is, it's a project of the Ministry of Culture. So we need to be clear here that everyone has their own resources and deals with their own resources: health, culture, economy, entrepreneurship, infrastructure construction, etc., so you will have to refer the question to another address. Moreover, the second question is how the HDSSB looks at the new Regional Development Act and the position here is, let's say, the Slavonian municipalities, and I will repeat it again. 43 Slavonic units of local self-government should therefore enter the system under this law in these 5 counties. I really can't understand that you don't support it. 43 units, 16 from Osijek County, 11 from Brodo-Posaviska, 7 from Vukovar, 6 from Virovitica-Podravska and 3 from Požega-slavonska and none from the entire area, and that is the city of Osijek that simply crossed the 100% and not 75%. And those settlements that were out there, unfortunately, can't stay in the system anymore under the bill. Now look, only in Osijek-Baranja County do you have 16 units where 77,000 Slavons and Slavons live. It is therefore not possible that you will not support a law that will allow 77,000 citizens to enter the state support system in Osijek alone through these measures that have already been defined and about which there is little need to talk about. In money sometimes it's not enough and it's not enough. And we have to agree to that, too. Why? Because in small units that are fiscally weak and economically weak and have a lot of employees, they don't have a lot of income tax, and neither does companies, so they don't have profit tax. But it's not the end of the story, because we made a program for them, too, and we take care of it. So we will also do this in this budget in a way that will help both these municipalities and their budgets through current aid. So it's been booked somewhere around 40, or 40 million kunas will be booked to fix what you probably haven't taken care of yourself. So where the real economic power and fiscal weakness are there we'll add extra money and extra and help with the current liquidity and allow them to exist. So, really cold heads and without political demagogy, I absolutely only call for collegiation and one objective and reasoned approach and that we really allow this division to be much more just in this future period than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93589	Thank you. Now we're moving on to replicas. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, the problem is that this project, this plan has no vision, no projections. You talk on one side all the time we're gonna do this, we're gonna do that. When it comes to concrete you say it's not my portfolio, ask someone else. It would be much more concrete, more honest if you said we're going to do it with this budget, and it's going to be even worse for a year, two, three, but then we're going to get rid of the debts, we're going to get rid of this or that. We have adopted a strategy, namely the Parliament adopted a Strategy of Science and Education, with it moving from 3% to 6% of GDP by 2020, and there is no sign of that in this budget. It is not only a rescue in what you expect in the European funds that will be grants when the results for the overall development of Croatia are not known. We simply have one situation that you do not have the whole development projection for Croatia. You don't know where Croatia will be in a year, two, three, five or ten. And that's the government's job to propose. The government is tasked with reaching a consensus of opposition and the ruling coalition on key issues concerning projects and programmes that are longer than the mandate of any government. It's simply what it doesn't have, and then it's about individual programs whether 50 or 70 thousand people with them are affected simply without one vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93591	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93592	So, you've had these two days to hear about this great Juncker plan, about the leverage of financial 1 to the 15th. I'm offering a lever one to the eight that's much more real, so at least twice as real than lever one to the 15. So European funds serve exclusively as leverage of development, leverage of funding for development. But what's written in the partnership agreement, I really do, and I call on those of us sitting here to read this document, some independent people said it was one of the best-quality strategic documents ever made for the next seven years in Croatia. Because it's general enough with development goals and it's concrete enough to say what to do in a segment, it seems to me about 11 key development areas, and with this financial leverage of 10.7 billion euros, you could do at least 107 billion euros in the next 7 years, and you can figure out what that money is, and we'll see that the effect in development is going to be seen. One more thing, all the experiences and cohesion report published periodically by the European Commission shows that European funds lead to growth, economic clean growth between 0.6% and 2% for individual countries. So, on average, over 1%. Which means that effect just can't be left behind. It will also have a significant impact on the rate of economic growth in Croatia. But what is even more important will have a huge effect on changing ways of thinking, changing strategic guidelines. Just for this part you mentioned, which is the RND, so research, development and innovation there is the focus of the largest. Three billion kunas go to the public sector and at least 3 billion in the private sector for research and development alone, which we have never had before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93593	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93594	Mr. Vice President of Parliament and Government, and Mr. Greek, you've spoken quite in general, so my replica will be in some way general. I believe that after six minutes of speech, the Prime Minister sent you here to chorus on European funds to divert the discussion in the Parliament from our Croatian budget to some European issues as if this was a conversation on the use of European funds. And that's it, to me it's clear from the first moment. And let's talk about these European funds by midnight and everything will be fine. If we had listened to Europe and waited in Europe, we would still be Yugoslavia Croatia. So we'll be with this, we'll be happy if we get back what we give, which we'll give next year, and we don't have to hope for much, if we get what we get. There are five smart people and determined people who know what they want, they can get this country out. There are five smart people in the government, and I don't know if there are five determined and I don't know if there are five people who know what to do. We need to turn the country upside down to survive. If we don't just consolidate our budget, next year there'll be more expensive interest and over the year, they won't give us any credit and we'll go bankrupt. Is that clear to us, is that clear to you in Government? That's what this is about. If we now begin to speak well today and to the Prime Minister, Croatian healthcare spends almost a quarter of the budget. There's no more way to borrow, we need to cover ourselves with that money we collect in the country. So 18 billion, 18 billion is for health care, and that's not for the state to pay, but to do whatever it takes. And what you can't, the people were mature for cuts, you had the public, you had the media, you had the team you had everything. It's a government of untapped odds. And it is still in time, in this year's time, you will lose the election anyway, but do it for the benefit of Croatia, and the people will remember you for it. Do your job in a way that Croatia moves forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93595	Comrade Marasovic, time. And you won't answer? Okay. Next replica, Jasen Mesic. Here you go. My colleague Marasovic's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93596	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you are the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in charge of the economy. Next time, I'll call the Prime Ministers. You have a project related to Kerestinec that exists for 3 years, which can allow the storage of archive material and saving that those state bodies that produce archive material cannot allocate additional funds for it. The project exists, it is worth more than 100 million kuna, it is ideal for the application of European funds because it increases the efficiency of the public administration and the availability of documents that are important to us. The second project, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, is the Croatian historical museum at the former tobacco factory, the same project of 100 million kuna for three years has been lying still and has not been launched anywhere. To this I insist and call on you in some way to point out that there are opportunities for the culture sector to contribute to GDP growth as in countries, smart countries contribute almost 5%. The real example is audio-visual co-productions that are recorded in Croatia, which earn more than 100 million kuna a year without having any investment in them but we only have a 20% return to that part of VAT and that's why we beat up the competition. Great job. The only projects in the culture sector that are thought to go out to fund European jobs are the ones we left three years ago prepared at the ministry. At the same time, you are reducing an item called entrepreneurship in a culture that serves so that Mr. Vice-President of the Government can launch a private initiative in culture. I point out that because I claim it makes sense, that it can help economic growth, and that Mr. Vice President stands for three years, as the Ministry of Culture has deafened to it, following in the chain of responsibility is you. Please encourage this. After that, it's the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93597	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93598	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I wanted to tell you something about all these discussions today, but I'm only going to look back on a piece of agriculture. I'm glad the Minister of Finance is here, so you see Mr. Vice-President Agriculture is one not to me, but certainly the most important branch of the economy in Croatia, because it unites the largest part of the population it deals with, and I think Croatia has all the real predisposition to be one excellent exporter of agricultural products. I'll just tell you on two how much Minister Jakovina really can't be called the right Minister of Agriculture because she doesn't understand, won't, or by some principles of work you can really say stupid things. Mr. Finance Minister, which is why we've been on the payroll but foreign associates, we've known that since before, and that's what the audit said, 48 external associates Minister Jakovina paid 3.5 million kuna, 3.5 million kuna paid. And in total, it was employed by the ministry, including agencies and advisory services, over 3,000 people. Why is that? The vip of agricultural projects has been reduced and the funds have been reduced, some will not be implemented at all. And you see you have one interesting and interesting information that the Vip Project Committee receives a fee every month, regardless of what each month does not meet. It's worth saving, I don't know if it's from 1,000 to 1500 kuna a month those people except they're working somewhere getting those funds. Do you think that's normal nowadays?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93599	Thank you, comrade twilight. Did you replicate the Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Lalovec? Both. Here, answer me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93600	I'm gonna take a chance. I forgot to tell you about the farm. So, on a partnership agreement that is no one's special act, it's an act of the Republic of Croatia on a general strategic act that we managed to push through as we pushed through, so, among the old Member States with not one week and a day of delay, it had at different stages, so I won't go too far if I say 500 least remarks about essential, nomotechnical, very different. So the number of objections to some of this strategic document doesn't mean anything, so here's what I'm really saying from experience. In the process of programming these documents, it's not just a government document, it's a broad partnership document, it's hundreds and hundreds of workshops both at local and central level, gathering people from different segments, from the civil sector, from the scientific community, from the economy. So it's not just our product. We did the fine grinding, as it is said, in the end and negotiated certain small things with the commission, however, a huge, huge number of people really participated in the process. And in the rural development program. Don't worry about those 300 and some of those remarks, all of them will be answered. I'm not just answering you, don't find yourself personally called now. So I answer to all those who have made a comment on 370 objections, so that's the usual procedure. A lot of this is also nomotechnical, but it will certainly be answered and this document will also be accepted with one dynamic belonging to the rural development programme where I have already said that the story is late at EU level due to the late adoption of appropriate regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93601	Thank you. Darko Milinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93602	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, you said this was a social democratic government and you wouldn't touch wages and pensions. I think we all support it here. But we're in the process of excessive deficit, can it happen to us? And yes, I think he can, given this budget. Can it happen to us that you won't be able to influence it? Could it happen to us that the European Commission will say 7 billion kuna you will get if you reduce the deficit, and you can only reduce the deficit by reducing wages and pensions. So what do we do? So what are we gonna do at that point? That's why I asked today, Deputy Prime Minister, look, I've asked 10 times today, and I'm gonna ask one more time and I won't do it again. So, I asked the prime minister is it true that the debt in health care is $3.5 billion? The Prime Minister... is paved. Ha, what I can do. I asked the Minister of Finance next to you if it's true that it's $3.5 billion in health care? The finance minister answers that he entered the Financial Business Act scene, which says payment deadlines within 60 days. I agree with that, too. Now, the finance minister knows that the county hospitals have been rehabilitated, watch this, in the fifth month of the rehabilitated county hospital. Five, six, seven, please listen to me, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven. Seven months, no county hospital's single bill has been paid. County hospitals don't pay a single bill, 250 days are payment deadlines. The minister knows he's been rehabilitating state hospitals at the 9th month. By resuscitating state hospitals at the 9th month, payment deadlines have been reduced to 300 days. That's why I said that the European Commission has all the data, that we respect the excessive deficit procedure and that we can have an excessive liquidation procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93603	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go. My colleague Milinović, the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93604	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, all these numbers you've just presented, and that's the one that sounds good, 77,000 people in Slavonia and Baranja will get help, they'll get direct. It's actually a defeat of the previous and these governments. You know what good news would be? If 10 or 20 thousand new jobs were open, it would be good news and it means something to Croatia in the long term. This is the same thing to you, imagine as rough as it's going to sound, what I'm going to say is it's going to be rough, it won't be rough words, it's the same as giving them crutches and saying, "Let's walk on crutches, imagine which would be the picture." Imagine that people are proud when they get help, when they get support, when they can't live off their work. Remember what was in Plan 21 about wages, about jobs. No one ever said, I'm sorry we made a mistake or I'm sorry, you said even once now in a televised conversation before or after the election that I said it might not have won the election. I think it was you. Therefore, if we continue to do so, soon the majority of Croatian citizens will be social cases, all will receive support. Is that the goal, is that, often politicians say in the '90s. We decided on capitalism and we voted it almost unanimously. No, no one asked what we have today, that people be, that there be 77,000, even though I am not Slavonac and Baranjac, that 77,000 people in Slavonia and Baranja receive help, receive support. It's a defeat, I stress, of both the past and this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93605	Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93606	Very short. So I agree with you in this section that it really is not the goal nor can it be the goal that the state with certain social assistance solves developmental and other problems. However, this is not about social aid, this is development aid, this is from local self-government units whose territory our citizens live in. This number is the number of citizens who would enter the system together with their local self-government units only in Osijek-Baranja County and that is good for me. So it's about development aid financed by not knowing the unclassified roads, leggosts, cemeteries, kindergartens, children's kindergartens, children's kindergartens, etc. So, indeed, to achieve a certain standard of municipal and social services in local self-government units, not social support to citizens. I just wanted to make that clear so there wouldn't be any confusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93607	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93608	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, you were talking about Osijek-Baranja County but the whole of Slavonia and Baranja have residents in assisted municipalities and cities 460 thousand that is real data. But it's sad, and it's embarrassing and obviously Slavonia has been given these party changes by governments from evil father to worse mother or between evil father and worse mother, and so it came to this sad list of 117 assisted municipalities. I'm interested in something else, I'd like to ask you or the minister to tell me precisely if not now by written means. How much money does this aid amount to for 117 Slavonian municipalities and cities? Do you have a projection of how much money this is? And when you talk about Europe and the EU funds on 1:15, it seems to me from 21 billion euros to 315 billion, and I would ask you if Croatia is considering using funds so-called funds. The new Europe deal, which is spoken of and can we now indicate from these funds the construction of the Peljega Bridge and some other capital investments that are significant and significant in the Republic of Croatia. And the third thing I was going to say, maybe you weren't talking about it, but we can talk about it, about the expense side of the budget. Give me three days and I'll cut you the expense side for three billion kunas, and Mr. Lalovec cut it for 500 million kuna, so it's said and so it is. But believe me, there is room for cutting much, much more to give up a lot of things or to give up you in the government and institutions of material and some other expenditures wouldn't want to talk about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93609	My colleague Grubisic, I shut you down. We're done. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93610	Yeah, here's a quick answer, so I don't have all the information you'll get in writing, but for Osijek-Baranja I have. So these 16 units now have original revenues of 120 million kuna, and these support would amount to 25 million kuna for these 16 units, which would mean an increase in their budget by cca 20%. No, it's not a tax return here, so these are income from income tax and profit tax in these units. So that's simultaneous. As far as Juncker's plan is concerned, he's at the beginning. So what I just said earlier is a very interesting financial leverage instrument where the 15, 20 billion euros should pull more than 300 billion investments. What do I think about that? A good initiative, but I still don't think it's round enough to see from it some kind of light in Europe's tunnel, first of all, but also all of us EU members. We have done our job in the last two months or less than two months since this initiative lasts. We have attached a list of 68 projects, including what you were talking about. These 68 projects are worth more than 19 billion euros, so a very ambitious list with different stages of preparation within which 15 billion, slightly less than 14 billion values, are the only ones that we nominated for EU funding in gross amounts. So we have prepared the list, we have it, but until the Ecofin meeting first, and then the European Council will probably do a little grinding, correcting and proposing. But believe me, I don't have much expectations personally, I think we need to concentrate first of all on what we have, and these are the funds we're going to be able to dispose of these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93611	Thank you. Next replica Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93612	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr. Vice-President of the government spoke about the iconics and the prognosis. I'm not going to ask about the cards, and I'm just going to ask you what Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government you've hit so far? But when we talk about growth, probably that growth that should be 0.5% should be rewarded for life's work. Growth in the Republic of Croatia is important, but we cannot achieve growth. But you talked about the social democratic government to macroeconomic stability, but by your actions and borrowing the Republic of Croatia in the long run, you have brought into one big problem. I understand that Minister Lalovac is trying and I congratulate him on his efforts to say the other day that five billion will try to save on the spending side. No, I've listened well to five billion, and it's commendable because we need to reach a consensus on the spending side. But earlier you spoke of aid for liquid liquidity and for existence in Slavonia and Baranja. The people in Slavonia and Baranja are too proud not to need charity but to need capital investments. And you are talking to today's frequent appearances about liquid aids. Well you can see the map of Croatia and you can see the situation of Slavonia and Baranja. Of 127 117 in catastrophic condition. So it was not the HDSSB that brought her into such a state but just missed policies and non-investment in Slavonia and Branje. So even if we hadn't warned you about that, you wouldn't be doing this at all, what you're doing with the Regional Development Act right now. We commend you for taking a good trip but you had to embrace Slavonia and Baranja as a whole. And when you were doing a map of the division of the Republic of Croatia we told you nicely round Slavonia and Baranja historically, naturally with all the natural problems we have in one whole and don't push us towards Zagreb, don't do that missed policy you made at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93613	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93614	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I'd really like to clear up some positions after a few days. I've really combed this budget along and across and I can't find the data you're talking about. So they're not at the Ministry of Regional Development and now we're going to the Ministry of Finance. So on page 33 you have the funding of decentralised functions a billion and 270 million last year, this year a billion 510. Maybe it's funny to you, but it's not for those who lose their money. But what you're pointing out all the time and that's help, at least I'm assuming it's based on article 35 or 36. The law on the implementation of the state budget. Is this position helping local and regional self-government in 2014. 309 million 981 thousand and in 2015 548 million. In view of the fact that the Minister of Finance's reasons for the budget on the Finance Committee, the finance minister said that the return of income tax is no longer on the principle that it is returning from the aggregated and passing account rather than that these money will be incometed and that it will then be returned from the position of the Ministry of Finance to the income tax. It should be this position and she says this year will be, in fact, next year 548 million, 2016. 517 a 2017 500. And since I'm reading all those municipalities that you've been talking about and what you've been telling your colleagues in the HDSSB, they're inside. However, Mr. Deputy, these two positions this year total 700 and some million more, so tax returns and this aid based on income censorship. And next year, actually 2015, that position is 549 million, so 200 million almost smaller. You did throw out some units of local self-government based on the index, a lot of them went in there just the question is [[Intruder: It's time.]] I'm just asking you one more sentence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'd really like to clear this up. Since you don't have any other positions in the budget... [[Intruder: But your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93615	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. After nearly 7 hours of debate on the 2015 State Budget Proposal and the 2016 and 2017 projections, I can say on behalf of the club immediately that we will shorten the story that the HNS club, the Liberal Democrats, will support this draft budget. But still, let's go back to the beginning and see what the budget is that we're discussing. The budget is primarily an act assessing revenues and receipts and establishing expenditures, expenditure for one year in accordance with the law. Budgeting is always one of the most important financial and political events, and we can say that it is also a political document. And I can say this specifically as the head of the city that it's been 14 years since we've made the budget and we actively participate in it, and we know very well what the budget is. And the emphasis is what I said at the beginning that the budget is based on an evaluation of the planning, when you talk about the evaluations of planning that there are then risks, risks and income risks and on the spending side. And when we speak specifically of this whole budget, we can say that it's more real than it was in previous years and we can certainly say that it's conservatively planned. And the main objective of each budget and this state budget is to set its objectives and guidelines, which is primarily to reduce deficits and strengthen and increase economic growth, implement the stability of public finances and ensure that the entire system is more efficient and more effective. And when we talk about the budget, the indicators of this state budget are the revenues of 106.4 billion, the expenditures of 119 billion, of which there are 115.7 billion operating expenditures and 3.3 billion expenditures for the acquisition of non-financial assets. The deficit is 12.5 billion, which accounts for 3.8% of gross domestic product. It has always been pointed out in this debate that this lacks 10.7 billion interest costs. And immediately this first goal that we can say, highlighted, and each budget and each act must give guidance and a goal where we strive there can be no more borrowing. When we talk about planned growth next 2015, it's 0.5%, '16%, '17%. It's by the government. And whether it is optimistic or realistic or pessimistic, we can say that the same assessment of the planned growth of the European Commission for Croatia has made of 0.2% for 2015 and the Economic Institute has also given 0.2%. So whatever's bigger than zero and lucky it's not less than zero then we can be real or slightly optimistic. And can we say that after six years of crisis, we can expect a little light at the end of the tunnel, so I guess that's what we're all expecting. So when we talk about our state budget, income and expenditure, above all the basic characteristics regarding excluding revenues from the state budget from health insurance contributions, revenues from participation in addition, health insurance and other income from the HZZO, according to specific regulations. And when we talk about all the total revenues of the state budget, the most significant categories are income tax 1.9 billion, profit tax, VAT, tax on gambling, aid contributions, other incomes and proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets. With these revenues, we've already analyzed almost every single one of these discussions today, each of which we've found certain advantages, each of which we've found certain faults. I would especially point out the two types of income that we've talked about a lot about tonight, some things we've touched a little. In these incomes that we income, profit, VAT and tax... they're planned, they're planned for what we said at the beginning with... the risk. They can be much bigger if we encourage certain things we planned from economic growth to other things, and they can be much less. Who can guarantee that in any budget? We who know how to do it and who did it, I'm afraid it's very difficult, no matter how experienced you are in... There would specifically mention meanings and these are revenues from the sale of non-financial assets 1.1 billion kuna where the sale of apartments and other building facilities owned by the state is planned. It's 2,000 objects. It is a risk for you to achieve where we all are happy, first of all we will get revenue in the budget, and at the same time we will put both these apartments and construction facilities into operation. It is best to be within the framework of the building facilities for economic investment, as well as the function of perhaps improving the social status of our citizens. But I think there are even more reserves, even more so that many of the objects that are now failing us, and we know most about our local administrations in the cities, the municipalities, which 20 years nothing has been invested in them, and unfortunately because of many problems, we haven't found an effective way to put it into function. We need to be much more efficient here, and I think there's still a huge reserve in that section to charge our budget directly and indirectly. The other revenues of the budget that you would mention, and I'm saying we're really talking about, these are the funds, seven and a half billion kuna. It looks very beautiful, very tempting, but you shouldn't really say that it's kind of a show for us in a way that we justify our great knowledge or even what's the worst of our great ignorance about these funds. It's a real asset, but it's up to us to take advantage of them. But first of all, I would say from my own experience that it depends most on us at the lowest level, that it is the best form of decentralisation because we at the local level, regionalally best know what our potentials are that when we invest in them, we can get some results, and we need very much help there. But what we can even say about the revenue side not at local... but also at the state level, much of the budget is already in some way reserved for fixed things: for health care, for the military, for wages and other things. That's what pensions we have to give, that's what's fixed. Now only by what percentage we can still in some way balance and dispose of, that we can incentivize... in the first part, which is the reduction of deficits and, in fact, the most important increase in economic activity. And on the revenue side, nobody often interferes so that some things can be achieved, but on the spending side, then there really is a lot of ideas about how and how it should be arranged. In the expenditure side of the state budget, what the state and government want to impose, however, is to see where the reduced funds are compared to the previous... periods, and where these funds are increased and then tells us what is our priority, which is the basis, which we will need to keep in mind, and which can still wait a little later. So the restrictions have been reduced by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economy, Agriculture, Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, Science, Justice and Health, and the Ministry of Finance, the State Commission, elections are there, the Ministry of Defence, Culture, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and spatial planning. It points out, however, what we wanted specifically to point out, which is that the principle of showing income tax on income is increased, and this is for the return and support of units of local, regional, regional self-government. Of course, we want what we told the defenders not only... but to... increase their rights. They deserve it. The Ministry of Culture, however, wants to be a state of culture. So far, we have the least singled out practically for culture of all European Union countries, and we also need to take good care of it. ...work and pension systems, pensions, yes, that's what we protect, we protect that really our pensioners who deserve that pension have certainly in the month that they have to get that pension. They really deserved it. At the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, it is mentioned here that this is an increase for floods and for Gorski Kotar. Yes, we need to help people in need, we need to be socially sensitive and very helpful to our citizens, our people. In particular, we have received 17m euros this year for such assistance from the European Union. It is also up to us to get the same help in the coming years and to install in our budget for our citizens. When we talk about the European Union funds, the revenue side, that's what we said, which is a component of 7.3 million funds, over 700 million kuna by the national component. But the cost component shows what we're planning and what we can use, of course, if we want, if we're able, if we're ready for it. First of all,... expenditure relates to the Ministry of Agriculture, Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, Labour and Pension System, the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, so that the Ministry of Agriculture has today... a total of 3.3 billion kuna. The Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship has planned 731 million kunas, work and pension systems... million kunas and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure 559 million kunas. Yeah, they look like nice numbers. But what we've also said is that it's only up to us whether we're willing to use that potential and really think about it if we can do it all, 7.1% of kuna with these 711 million kuna national components, how much it's going to be a win for our country's development. New jobs, also new technologies that can primarily be invested in exports and not to talk about those soft programs social components help our people. In the end, I would still look back at two more things I mentioned. The first is that we really need to protect the basic foundation of our society, the means of pensions, social contributions, the health system, health care, education and science, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. But a special thesis, however, as mayor, gave the foundation of every development and all the resources that are still defined are immediately seen at that lowest level. So I would point out that all these funds, especially two ministries concerning that level, is the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development must respect the sustainability and sustainability of cities, municipalities and counties. First of all, local self-government units cannot be managed through deficits as a state budget, and that is much harder. We must plan that sustainable and balanced budget, as well as the state our budget records and manages it as a single budget of the units of local self-government and is always in the states of the state budget being based on it being run and planned as a balanced budget. Now we're talking about the incomes of cities and municipalities. The biggest revenue is income from income tax. Then it is now said that we can use EU funds and we have funds to settle. I would point out in particular that this sustainability, the balance of cities and municipalities, especially those cities and municipalities, or units of local self-government, which are these new measures and a set of laws that we have now brought back several days that cannot allow any fall to be more than 20%. This must certainly be taken into account by the funds for alignment. So I'm asking really for the understanding and the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Finance, to do an analysis that it is. If it is not permitted to allow anyone after the suspension of the support of any level of their basic income in that section to fall below 20%. Because we know and that's a lot, but underneath that, it's absolutely questionable to maintain and function this particular local regional self-government. And of course, in each part of that part, we need to find mechanisms that, such a part of the coordination activity, the conduct of one policy and solidarity and the argumentation, we will find mechanisms to make that happen realistically. ... The solidarity to hear a lot about Slavonia in this debate, too, has been heard a lot about Lica, Gorski Kotar and Dalmatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there is much to be heard about Croatia's north, about Croatia's Zagorje, about Međimurje and about Podravina, because there is also a need for assistance and support. Everywhere you need to hear and what is again the most, what in the end is that you should hear less and less that someone needs help and support. Well, I don't think we want to be poor all the time, and we need to expect some support, but expect that by our knowledge, investment and one common position, and above all by political consensus, we can come to the conclusion that we can also help everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93617	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93618	Your Honor, Mr. President. Buddy, it's easy for you to live there when you have, you're the mayor of a famous city, it's a little angry. You prisoners, prison pays communal fees. You can live a million years, don't worry. Every day, it's more like it. So, you don't have a problem. I wouldn't want to talk about it, at least I have the right to two kids of black wine like Stepinac does. But you said you saw the light at the end of the tunnel. Maybe you see it and maybe it's the light. But there is no fellow oil left in the scroll, so soon that light will be turned off in Croatia, and Croatia is a tunnel. The deficit will destroy Croatia. Everyone knows how to solve the deficit by raising revenue and reducing expenditure. This is already being deployed here both outside the Parliament and in Croatia and here in the Parliament today. I don't mean to be anything special right now, but the fact is, this government doesn't run the situation. It does not create anything and shows no potential, nor any projection in which it will stop the deficit growth. And the growth of deficits must turn off light in Croatia and we must, we cannot live under normal conditions. Yeah, normal. We have to declare a kind of state of emergency in Croatia if we want to save the country, it is on the right track, and says one good set can make it five determined, smart people who know what they will and will, agree. The people will listen to them, why not? We don't have that. That's our problem. This is the problem of today's Croatia, the problem of leadership and management. That's how I experience things. We're not one African country with sand and no oil. She's gone for a million years. Croatia has blessed God in every way possible and we do not know how to get out of this situation. There's a way out, but it needs a good pull.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93619	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. Let's mention the town of Lepoglav first however that, in Lepoglav we have the biggest prison in Croatia and it is a good school of revolutionaries. I'd be the happiest person to benefit from that in my city. Unfortunately, there isn't, because I can't say how much, but it's a little less than 1,000 people don't pay the city any communal contributions or fees, and if it were at least a tourist complex I would have then. Since it's overbooked both in the pre-season and in the sub-season, then I'd have any income. Unfortunately, I must say, from my budget, I must finance a good part of the activity for such an institution from my budget, unfortunately. It's not since yesterday, it's from ten years old. Because what was owned by the penitentiary back in the 20 years, it all fell apart, and it has this potential that I said in that part. And I would like the town of Lepoglava to be known for the second part, we are on UNESCO's list, a city rich in historical and cultural traditions, we have the 1st high school, the 1st university in Lepoglava, and unfortunately here we are headed through Alcatraz and not Cambridge from Oxford. But what we've learned in Leprechaun is that we have to be optimistic,... That after six years I personally as mayor and we all shouldn't wait any longer for us to get better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the consensus we need to achieve together must not be allowed into the 7th year that we do not have economic growth, that we do not have greater employment and that we are reducing the deficit. That's what we have to do. And that only depends on us in the Parliament, and so do we who are mayors and mayors depending on the government, on the prime minister, depending on all citizens. It depends on who we trust to do what we need to do and do. So it needs to be reasoned. Here's exactly what I've taken over from 3 to 4 million kuna, the value of investment or material value we've raised from 4 million to 80 million, I've spent 18 projects from EU funds, I'm not going to say why, because I'm 8 years old unfortunately while you've been in power... As the status of the mountain-mounted area, I didn't get any kunas, but we weren't desperate, we turned to other sources of income, and we built it into the development of our city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93621	Thank you. Next replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93622	Thank you very much. You have said that this budget is more real than before. Yeah, that's right. But being more realistic is still not a confirmation that it's real. If you planned growth for this year two years ago 3.5% and now 0.5%, then of course it's more real. But you missed 700% first, set the world record, and it's normal that you can't break the record every day. You will now miss between 100 and 200% in this case. You said everyone was talking about incomes, no one was talking about how to increase them, just to talk about how to cut expenses. Well, here when it comes to income, there's no structure in individual categories. Let's say the sale of financial assets foresees income but not from which and in what way, which will be sold. Speaking of expenses, here's what I'm going to tell you about expenses, what you say is not said. Tell me one economic argument why VAT was introduced to building land of 25%, only one, in conditions where construction is grograted and there is no activity. And how can it move? Only by increasing economic activity can the revenues of the state budget be increased. And how can she increase? So just by reducing the load in construction that is the generator to reduce VAT in construction, not to introduce 25%, to reduce property tax to 2% and to compensate for revenues by introducing taxes on the sales of other types of property because there is only one type of property tax and that is real estate, and there is no tax at all on the sales of other types of property. What's the new condition? The state must pay in time, not a day late if it thinks that economic activity in the country is increasing and starting at all, not just increasing. The state can't be late for a day's pay. We finally have to arrange the country that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93623	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Skuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, what you told me and you agreed that there are risks in the context of always budget planning and in the incomes of the spending party and it is difficult to plan some things. In order to plan something, you have to have some indicators. What you said about us making that growth happen. Well, based on these indicators, the government said there would be 0.5% growth. The European Commission, also who also knows a good position in this part, has said that economic growth will still be 0.2%. And the Economic Institute, too, which is the same, we have to respect it, although I have a different opinion on it, he also said it would be a growth of 0.2%. Well, I said, well, some growth over 0, and that's one part of optimism in some way. And what we said was more realistic and that even part of the income is primarily income and interest put at the lowest level planned, which is planned. So it wasn't going to blow up assets like we know how to say in that part, it went to the lowest level. ... Real real? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think unfortunately we'll be smart that if anything else for at least the first six months when we have the first analysis, first and foremost, of us at the local budget management, and I'm sure at government level as well as parts of these indicators. You said land tax, yes, I agree and most questionable because that land tax, above all, who buys land today? On the other hand, where do you buy land? It's so unbalanced that here I have to say that I'm envious of the South when it sells land that some of my colleagues were practically when they were the best times in 2008, 2009 and 2010 that they had more income than I did in income. Because the price of ten times the land is economical than worse in northern Croatia. And of course, we're not talking about the size of land sales and investment itself. These are all things that are difficult to predict but I think this government has had the courage and the courage to move towards decisive changes, above all, regarding these support and through indexation itself, defining the support of local administrations and self-government because I say this is the basis for Croatia's development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93625	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So today we've talked a lot about the budget, and I'd like to touch on one topic that, unfortunately, we don't discuss at all, and these are extra budget funds. For several reasons, by deciding to isolate HZZO from the State Treasury, extracurricular users currently have about 28.29 billion at their disposal. And now it's probably going to be easier for the Minister of Finance to listen to my debate because it doesn't get tangled directly. However, we heard that the money will finally be spent clearly and transparently in Croatia because now the Ministry of Health has practically lost part of the funding from a health contribution, and HZZO has its own account and has its own financial plan. And what that own financial plan looks like and what this transparency looks like, look at your colleagues and colleagues in the state budget plan you have that with the basis of the payment from HZZO to the state budget for state hospitals 4 billion 325 million will be paid. That's what the state budget says. But when you look at HZZO's financial plan, then you don't have those numbers, you don't have those numbers. So great transparency experts have put practically the full amount of health costs of 17 billion 609 million and no more analytical breakdowns. So you don't have to pay 4 billion 325 million into the state budget. But look, if we said it was some kind of terrible reform procedure to extract HZZO from the Treasury, then it would be logical that in this particular part of the financial plan you have costs per user, so all the hospitals and all the others that get it. Because if it says in the state budget that the Osijek Clinical Hospital Center gets so much and so much money then it would be logical that the same thing is in HZZO's budget. Because this way when someone looks at this budget and accidentally skips this 4 billion 325 million on the revenue side of the state budget then it turns out that practically health costs have gone up for some 5.6 billion which isn't. So, so much for this transparency, so much better that it's going to happen in HZZO, but I still have two issues open. One is what is the real HZZO debt of 31.12.2014, who is going to settle that debt, from which position? From which position all debts will be recovered which will later appear and relate to 2014. A year? So that's a question we don't have an answer to. The third thing is, and now you're going to see why I ask that when I'm talking about another extra budget user, what happens if HZZO ends up with a billion and a half kuna minus next year? Who covers that minus, from what means? HZZO cannot be charged without State guarantee. HZZO cannot increase its incomes because it has them precisely defined by law as they are. So we've decided on a very risky move to allegedly make things transparent, and now we've just made things nontransparent. Secondly, the second extra budget user I want to talk about are Croatian roads. You see, we all like to hit on what the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is, we all love except the Prime Minister, when the roads are paved in its surroundings and they look good without holes, but also when we talk about this public debt then we should say that in the past how many years, 97 and 98, which are founded Croatian roads in the form in which they were founded, or a few years later, they have made almost 15, 16 billion minuses. Because every year they're in charge and they're working and they can't pay off that debt. But it's very interesting that we gave them 20 lips last year from what 60 lips he had before HAC, we gave 20 lips to them, 20 lips to HZ. This was supposed to be some kind of injection for enhanced activity and based on this employment primarily of construction companies in the Republic of Croatia. But what happened, it happened that the Croatian Roads' financial plans were reduced by 700 million kuna last year. But today, when the Prime Minister explained the budget, very interestingly that he did not touch one of the areas that we think of in HDZ, I find it very important and very important and this is irrigation and the Danube-Sava channel. So, one investment project that even investors can find. However, I only say that in the context of the financial plan of the Croatian waters. Croatian waters have 2 billion million revenues per year each year, spent according to plan. When the floods come, then those poor people who are flooded talk and say it's because their canals aren't cleaned. But I don't remember that even when I was a minister, and I was an opposition representative to have someone deal with this financial plan. So, so much for extra budget funds. And what I want to point out again, and these are local self-government units and compensation or any other means. My colleagues and colleagues with this budget are definitely confirmed that the units of local self-government, not that they were taken away 2 billion and 100 million with income tax base, are simply not compensated, are not. And yesterday I spoke with what right someone can say that gambling income or interest income is not as income as any other, and if I pay interest tax, it is income and normal that this income should be shared as all other incomes on this key as defined by the Law on the financing of local self-government units. No, the government took that part of the cake to themselves and then said we will increase the position for decentralised functions from these assets to 300 and some million kuna. So, definitely in Croatia, the decentralisation process was completed, centralised took place. And finally, when you look at the Commission's report on fiscal policy and when you look at their most significant grudges and risk assessment, then you will see... what this budget rests most on, what the EU funds are based on most on. And if people who are impartial, for which we can all confirm because we who deal with finances most of these people know are really people of the profession warning us that this is something that is very risky, then someone above that should imagine. Because look, if you promise entrepreneurs, both small and medium, if you promise farmers, if you promise units of local self-government that they will have the opportunity to withdraw 7 billion kunas, and you haven't prepared for that at the end of the year, and they don't withdraw that money, then let's not politically argue why we have so many tens or hundreds of thousands of jobs less. Well, we don't have them because we've been nakeding the budget, all the investments from budget to board, and practically what was once in the budget, for investment in education, in health care, in islands, in local self-government units, it's now practically transferred to EU funds, as we've switched former HZ subsidies to guarantees. Who guarantees these people that they'll get that money? And if we do not open the space to investment in state-owned companies and state-owned investments and if we do not open space to the real sector, private sector, private capital, then we will still have a big problem with the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, we will have a problem with the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Because look, we have a complete retirement process, no matter how well he's earned it, but he's got a pension under the law, he's creating an annual deficit of 17 billion and he's the only one who can get rid of new employees, but if we in the budget... all the cards that people would hire, then we have nothing to hope for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93627	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93628	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, you mentioned as an example the Osijek Clinical Hospital Center, so let me explain specifically what this is about. In this budget will say a clinical hospital center, which is Zagreb has about 87 million kuna per month, when we know that it spends continuously somewhere around 120 million kuna and that every month this year there has been a deficit from somewhere compared to revenue of around 30 million kuna and that this year it will be 360 million kuna or 380 million kuna, it will also happen next year. Absolutely, no structural reform has been made and of course it will not change that. However, I would actually refer to something else, and this is a question of an incredibly easy approach to the fact that you will leave institutions, hospital institutions owned by the state from 01.01. to the budget, in the treasury, pardon. So, what's that gonna cause? Well, the dimensions of this are incredible, which means, in a month's time, it's not at all starting to prepare for these institutions to enter the Treasury, in terms of informational adjustment, connecting to the entry of orders and accepting feedback, payments by HZZO, knowing the experience of the central wage calculation, that it took a year to introduce this, for me this is incomprehensible. The lack of full guidelines for the development of a 2015 financial plan according to which the operation of a treasury facility should be a key instrument for all transactions, is a completely unknown way of contracting hospitals with HZZO, the level of their limit, the level of health care service prices, the situation of what will happen when the hospital fails to justify its limit, which will happen if the planned expenditures are higher than the limit, which is then introduced into the Treasury system, whether all accounts will be entered into the Treasury by order of suppliers or the Treasury will pay them strictly according to age or the institutions will be able to decide on their own when they will pay from paid income from HZZO to the Treasury in order to ensure some continuity of their work. So, you don't know all that at all, and that should happen in a month. For me, it's just incomprehensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93629	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93630	Comrade Reiner, I'm going to say something that maybe a lot of the ruling coalition won't like, but it's true. This is a coward's egg that has been deposed to the Ministry of Finance by force, the political force of the health minister compared to the finance minister. And someone has made a decision that HZZO will come out of the treasury and I am now interested, because here in the budget it is said that materials and energy in Split will be spent, and that may be Duje knows, 310 million and it is still not broken down at all. So what kind of transparency did we get? The other thing, what you were saying with the treasure, is that settled, is that not settled, are there certain decisions? Well, in the end, I think that even in the Ministry of Finance's own organization, the government had to bring in certain acts, and not to mention the central salary account, it's a process that started a long time ago, somewhere in 2006, then it was called human resources management, but it was very difficult with the central salary account to insert those who have a lot of pay supplements, and the very problem of collective contracts in health is that there are many additions to this, for that, in one way or another. Apparently, the Minister of Health, the finance minister, has made the effort to fight the largest hospital centres in the Republic of Croatia, to fight the unions, to resent the highest quality Croatian doctors that should be kept in Croatia, and not only the small salary to drive them out of Croatia, but he took less care of himself, but very interestingly, that he took nearly 22 billion kuna to manage them, the only thing he screwed up was not to... the bank, at the expense of the private bank, but would be at the expense of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93631	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93632	Your Honor, Madam President. I don't like the debate within the club that they are objecting to, but I agree with your general presentation, but I think you have weakly highlighted the issue that arises and stems from these laws, tax laws and the Law on Local Self-Government which the government will withdraw money from local self-government and cities, municipalities. I don't think it's just about centralisation, it's about breaking the concept of decentralisation of Croatia. The Kukuriku coalition received elections on several issues. One of the key questions was decentralisation. That's what the other parties and HDZ were talking about, but it was Kukuriku who somehow adopted it as if they were going to decentralisation. So this is the defeat of this policy and through the defeat of this policy of decentralisation we can clearly and transparently see the defeat and total policy of the Kukuriku coalition. This is an eclectic example and clearly mirrored the total defeat of the general policy of this government. This is the worst decision this government has made in three years, in my opinion, because she's got a lot of things mixed up in bad, and nothing's done anyone any good. So the break of decentralisation policy or they didn't mean it honestly when they said it or in despair and hopelessness reached out to something that didn't mean anything and this is a disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93633	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93634	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague Marasović here is the Clinical Hospital Center Split where you have been for years... Practically 648 million is divided through 7, 8... Is that transparent, is that where you can see the money being spent? [[A speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand.]] No, it's probably in the financial plan of every hospital it's far more dismembered analytically and things can be seen better. I repeat, however, the Minister of Finance has been hatching a coward's egg. The most clinical hospital centres or the most important hospitals in the Republic of Croatia have left the state budget, and there are also the biggest experts in the field of medicine who do not want to offend others and are also practically the most difficult to include in this, because of collective agreements because of those powerful supplements that exist. We know that the doctor and medical staff strike is practically in the status quo, not even finished. However, given that the budget has been entered, the question is who will be the main negotiator. The health minister will sit on the sidelines, and whoever has to scratch will be the finance minister because he cannot allow any position to be exceeded. However, look only at one of these by heart, says gross wages at the Split Clinical Hospital Centre are 284 million, and contributions to salaries are 47 million. ... That hardly on some 200 million incomes can say that's 47 million, that's far more. [[A speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand.]] So it's a position that will certainly be breached, alive and seen at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93635	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93636	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker here as longtime mayor in the town of Pleternica, here is the minister and vice president of the government, unfortunately he was and he left, I don't really understand this tax policy. But I will give an example from the Požega-Slavon County of the town of Pakrac, which had cca 11 thousand and 600 thousand tax revenues, of which the state took 5 million and 700, received the aid of 4 million and 100. He is minus 1 million 600 thousand kuna, and 4 million 100 refers to his return to income tax. So I'm now asking the Ministry and the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, so what kind of help is this to cities that haven't been developed, a city that's been destroyed by war, and those in our county of cities and municipalities have a lot. Of course I'm worried because this tax policy really leads to that, that these very cities will simply disappear because this tax burden, too, and I said several times that the state is just discharging its central budget to the burden of units of local self-government. This is the best example, so let anyone answer me now how they're about to make up for the city of Pakrac million and the 600 thousand kuna he's had, which he doesn't have today, and we know that for three years he'll just refinance them. What's he gonna do after three years when he's not gonna get these 4 million and 100? Well, it's a disaster, it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93637	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93638	Comrade Lucic, you have seen that after very generous speeches, the Deputy Prime Minister has spent the last 2, 3 days in the Assembly on this compensatory measures, so the compensatory measures such as this and this here and that where he was asked a direct question about the positions on the budget where only two positions are located are left without an answer because it is not easy to raise 2 billion and 100. You can play with 200, 300 million, so introduce a new tax and redistribute it and somehow patch it up, but 2 billion 100 is impossible to do. However, what should be said here, yes, in 2011, we passed the Regional Development Act, this law should have been governed by the Law on the area of special state care and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. Croatia's specialities should have been implemented in this law, as they are not Croatian areas with special national concerns because someone remembered, these are the only areas in the EU that have been affected by the war. And we can't have anyone up there selling us jokes like you can't do it one way or the other. So we can because we are special, and that's why this Regional Development Act should have gone that way, and that's why those areas might even have been given special status when it comes to EU funds. And if the Regional Development Minister discussed it in such a way, then perhaps we could discuss that in a few years we will be moving towards some sort of equalisation of regional in the Republic of Croatia. But like this, leaving some surrogates, some laws in the Regional Development Act, which must be the basis for withdrawing funds for regional development, is simply ridiculous. To talk about indices from 4 years ago when there was far less unemployment, when it was ultimately a larger gross domestic product, when it was less migration towards both major centres in the Republic of Croatia and outside Croatia is simply ridiculous. So in Croatia in this crisis, not only in Croatia but everywhere in the world, the question is how much data is referenced after 6 months and not after 4 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93639	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93640	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you spoke in your debate and said that the promises of this government are difficult to implement or come true. Indeed, you're absolutely right all these years, people are already on the road saying, "The promise is crazy joy," that's the old saying, unfortunately it's not just about this budget, it's about all the promises of this government. It's just that some things happen here, and in this budget it's visible, and I don't have a vice-president who answered. 3,000 ministry employees and related agencies, and then it's simply 3.5 million kuna, but this budget will also give off the deal to external associates. I don't understand, there's so many people in the ministry and agencies employed, so I guess those outside associates, because they're out of chairs, they have to not sit two by two, then bring them out. I also asked the vice-president of the government why the VIP commission, therefore the funds were reduced, unfortunately, but this commission really does not meet not just once 4.5 times a year, but the monthly fee of each member is between 1000 and 1500 kuna. Well, it wouldn't make sense for them to get paid by the sessions and use those funds for something else. For example, to improve, it's a system of rapid alerts. We see that, this rebalance is, let's say, these funds are cuts by 57 thousand and 400 kuna and the proposal is the 2015 budget. Six thousand kuna. This alarm system for Let me just finish one sentence, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Collars.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93641	But it's not a replica to a fellow Shucker because he never talked about it at all. Comrade Shucker, reply to the replica. [[Twilight: He spoke of promises.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93642	I'm just saying no, so I know, but you interrupted me, so I mean vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93643	It's been a while, pal. Every time you step out of the way. [[And, well, all right, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93644	Comrade Sumrak, when Croatia negotiated with the European Union, then some people assured us that you must establish an agency for this, you must set up an agency for it. However, I think that if we are already talking about these agencies, finally someone must draw the line and which of these agencies they need and which of these agencies they do not need. However, what is the most controversial point and these are so-called so-called. intellectual services. I can only tell you that the Ministry of Finance is one of the few ministries that write all their laws on their own. If we spend so much money on intellectual services, then the EU funds should probably be slightly better and less quality. And listen, all these various fees are up to budget beneficiaries. They're the ones who manage the funds, they're the ones who need cuts. And not a single expert that I don't know who's coming from outside can the ministry cut costs as a resolute minister with their associates. The more this ministry has people who have been there for 10 or 15 years, and they know about every hole where the girls have the money. Therefore, when we reform the public administration, when the most efficient and the best will be rewarded and the system itself will lead to savings. As long as we don't do it, let's not expect anyone on the side of the public administration to do it. And that can only be solved by what we had until 2000, then abolished, it's the Payment Class Act. What we tried to do in 2008 so unfortunately we couldn't negotiate with the unions until the end it's the only way that those who work, those who do a lot of work and who know that they get paid and those who don't work to be punished because simply the quality of work and knowledge and the willingness to learn their whole lives can guarantee someone that they'll be sitting in a chair and not just getting a job in the state administration and they've got a contract on indefinite working hours and they don't care about everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93645	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93646	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers with associates and very few colleagues. I'll concentrate on one aspect of the budget and that's that part of dedicated science and education. In fact, we all know that the budget is the main document of a state that determines the direction of policy, development and that it actually mirrored the relations of government and state towards reality. It reflects the order of priorities of society. And if we look at how the science and education in this budget is positioned, then we will see that, obviously, in Croatia today, this government is positioned at the very bottom and education and science. We're a country that is currently devoting poor 0.69% of GDP for science, if 50% of university, science is still included here, etc. If 0.45 GDP for higher education is added, then it is somewhat more catastrophic, as the European Union average for education and science is about 4.6%. So we're around 3 to 4 times the average, we're giving out relatively compared to GDP for science and higher education. What kind of message does this budget send? The message is very clear, this country, this government, does not care about science and education because, not only has it not increased but it has fallen even by 214 million funds for science and education. This is particularly disastrous when we recall that here in this hall a little over a month ago we discussed a long and wide strategy of education, science and technology, a comprehensive document that has been vehemently announced. Let's remember, the former minister said it was a strategy over strategies, they sang praises that it was a historical document, etc. And then we were saying here that unfortunately it's just a list of nice wishes and that unfortunately none of that will come true, and if we want to make sure that the opportunity is very soon, in a month, when we decide on the budget. And now you have that chance, and now you have this opportunity to convince us that we were wrong. Unfortunately, this budget does not increase funds, and according to the strategy, this is clearly said, an average billion kuna should be allocated annually for science and education. This time we see that it was another deception, but a literal mockery with both that document and this home, with all the members of this house, and the ruling who voted it. Because it just sounds grotesque when you read today in a situation like this, an item of that document. I will read at random that the budgetary allocations for higher education will gradually increase until the European Union's media reach, that new and renewed existing high-school capacities will be built, that budgets for scientific competitive programmes will be increased, that the structure of education and science separation will gradually be changed so that the total amount of personal income is reduced, and the allocation from the state budget and GDP will be increased, that equal financial conditions for all public educational institutions, etc. will be ensured. I could quote everything we discussed here and then proudly adopt this strategy that we can throw in the trash because nothing will come true at all. Unfortunately, what we have announced at the time is that it is one document that will wave and claim to be a fantastic success of this government because here for the first time in history has adopted a document that is completely worthless because this same government does not want to abide by it, this same majority in the Parliament does not want to respect it. That's what I have to say sadly, and of course it affects a whole series of things in this country. We must be aware of the fact that when we look at the item of the Croatian Foundation for Science, which this government has given full funding to all scientific projects and PhDs. This is no longer done by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports but by the Croatian Foundation for Science. Now that we know that in 2013 and 2014, the Foundation conducted competitions for scientific programmes and projects that have been valorised according to the highest European criteria, foreign reviewers have valorised them, etc. and created annual contractual commitments starting with the following year 2015 in these competitions, which amount to 95 million kuna and thus until the end of 2017, without any new tender opened, and in this budget is given to them for 105 million kuna. What does that mean translated? This means that, compared to the amounts planned in the state budget, the funding of scientific projects through the foundation has been reduced by 40% and that the foundation will not be awarded in 2015 or 2016, nor in 2017 if these projections of the budget are implemented any single new competition for any new scientific research project in the Republic of Croatia. Are you aware of what that means? This means that people dealing with science will be directly driven abroad. It's already happening. The Ruđer Boskovic Institute recently opened a tender for 23 doctoral posts, 400 candidates reported. What's the message they get from this budget? So let them go out, there's no place for them. They won't find jobs here, the best of course they'll go outside, they've gone and piles out, but what does that mean for this country? For this country this means that it may be possible to publish some scientific papers next year, perhaps even in 2017 because there are results achieved in 2013, 2012, 2014. , etc., but there will be no more scientific results and no one will be able to publish anything in 2017 or 2018, etc. And then everyone will start to wonder, of course now ruling will be then in opposition and will move, I'm telling you in advance, they'll start criticizing the government that how terrible it is, that now the universities have fallen. Even today, it is said about how the Zagreb University is or isn't in the first 500. Well, it's fantastic if it's in the first 500 with this kind of funding. So what is the Croatian firm among the 500 best companies in the world? So what are we talking about? We pretend we don't know reality all the time and pretend to respect some top-of-the-line world criteria, and give literally a mockery of money for science and education. I want to point out again here we stand out for all the Croatian science from molecular biology to astrophysics etc. as much money as one FP7 can get from the European Commission. That's terrible, because it's not even a single country doing it. And it's completely nonsense if someone says that Croatian science will be financed by EU projects. No country does that. Each country gives its money primarily for scientific research, and then they give the best ages and projects of the EU and it is great to get them and to give them great if they do. But it's always extra money, that basic money comes from the country where the projects are carried out. Therefore, it is a complete delusion and illusion that this will also be resolved by some mythic money from the EU because it will not, because this budget will only mean nailing another nail into a coffin of Croatian science and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93647	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93648	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear academic Rainer, I have truly seen this display of yours as an appeal to all citizens, scientists, but most of all also to this government. Because this kind of relationship makes it clear to this government to science and education that it kills its Croatian mind. I'll just remind you of the Immunological Institute. You must know a lot more about it than I do. I only know the part, because some of my colleagues, science doctors, professors, veterinary doctors work as well as medics. The Immunological Institute for a year workers of the Immunological Institute, therefore scientists do not receive salaries, and it is the reference centre of the health organization, the World Health Organization and is one of the best of that kind in the world. It produces a number of vaccines, and now we're wondering if it's stopped, too. Of course, there's no pay. We wonder if it is in the interest of this government that a foreign company, a foreign pharmaceutical company, comes and buys all this together, buys our Croatian mind, too, instead of listening to your cry and finally decides that Croatian brains should be preserved in Croatia for future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93649	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93650	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, distinguished fellow twilight, first of all. Yes, it is true that the European Commission's recommendation is to invest in science and education and especially in the crisis. And the countries that did this when they were in crisis, you have examples from Estonia to Hungary, have managed to get out of that crisis. We also swear, at least on words and here we heard it when we talked about a strategy that I mentioned was fantastic, we have to invest in science, everything for science, soul and body we are for science and education. Here we go. Now you can see how we treat it, and this budget best shows how much we care about it. It's not just the European Commission. This and the American agencies involved recommend that the most prospective investment in research and development is education. Apparently everyone knows that except us. And when you mention the Immunological Institute, it is the best example of how something that has been a great institution can be ruined by not thinking about being a strategic company for Croatia. It is a strategic company for Croatia for several reasons. The first is that she collects plasma from volunteers. We're unique in that. Most countries in the world buy blood, buy blood unfortunately from people who are members of the edges of society, and that blood is rarely as safe as ours. We are a population where it is obtained by voluntary giving. We have put an enormous effort into encouraging voluntary giving. Now it's all gonna fuck with me to say so. That's one thing. The other thing, we're a population that's weak... Different diseases from AIDS unlike many other populations, and that's a huge advantage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And instead of keeping that advantage to ourselves and the only institution that can process it... We're ruining it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Strebec: Collateral Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93651	Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93652	Thank you very much, dear vice president, colleague and colleague. In the 2015 budget proposal with already set deficits of 12 and a half billion kuna for the same deficit, the government says it will be under control at central government level at around 1% and at the general state level 5%. And he says he's going to be stable, which means that in the next year as far as the budget is concerned, there won't be a budget rebalance. The budget deficit would be with this year's five... gross domestic product fell to 3.8% in 2015 and this is based on a projection of economic growth of 0.5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, in his presentation, the prime minister said that he was not perfect, he was neither developed nor social, and that he was threatened with such characteristics for the budget, but that he was real and that he was responsible. Today I'm sure no one believes it except for the government and its ministers, the fiscal policy commissioner herself says that because of the risk of withdrawing funds for the next two years, we're going to lose almost one billion kuna. Without domestic and foreign investments, we will hardly get any higher growth in 2015, and why we will not be given more frequent tax changes, legal instability and administrative harassment to all those who want to invest. This budget as far as transparency is concerned and when you list it, it is actually at the lowest historical level. Let's just say, just look at the funds for the development of civil society in the amount of 127 million kuna, while under the other paragraphs of the ministry, there are still around 400 million kunas of amounts to help compensation to households and so on. The team and the funds were also rewarded for some associations with considerable state resources, which, with their projects, want to say that the homeland is being kicked out of the Homeland War because this is insulting to Serbs. Imagine these and such associations receive funds and not only funds but also from the current president, because they say it is our conscience. And where and how are the funds reduced? What exactly is the policy of today's government against Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? The laws on citizenship fight to prove that they are Croats, deny them and complicate the procedures and rights that have led to absurdity. Yesterday we heard that a famous Croat and one of the leading businessmen in Australia struggle for 2 years to gain Croatian citizenship even though his parents are Croats. Active registration forces them to register for each election what is discriminatory. But now, as far as we can tell, there's a counter-effect going on, so now they're applying more than a colleague named Bauk expected. The residence law further harasses them, takes them out of their pockets for high costs and travel to diplomatic and consular offices. And now they actually get in the budget wherever it's possible to cut funds. The Republic of Croatia has 6 signed interstate contracts, on the Croatian side these conditions are mostly met but on the other hand this country is deafened. This is particularly important for interstate agreements between Croatia and Serbia, between Croatia and Macedonia and Croatia and Italy. Why don't you actually give the funds proportionally? Who does that really bother? Why don't you talk to the governments of those states? Why are there no intergovernmental mixed committees with other countries? Who's really stopping us from doing that? I suppose you know how much we give international cooperation to Serbs, we give to Hungarians, we give to Italians, other minorities are, I guess they don't know, kicked out of these funds because they didn't deliver their projects. The Croatian national minority therefore does not have an increase in funds in this budget for 2015. At the position of the assistance programme Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have a million and 506 thousand kuna and at the position of international cooperation something about, also a million and 506,000 kuna. If there are slightly more than half a million representatives of Croatian minorities in other countries, this means that we stand out a little less than 3 kuna per Croatian living in other countries as a Croatian national minority. We quickly forgot the problems that Croats have in the Republic of Serbia. Everything we could deny them we denied them. What was to be done 10 years ago on the dropper is to be released only today. They also reduce their funds for teaching Croatian language abroad by 10%. From the 1990s to today, between 35 and 40,000 Croats have been evicted from the area. There's not a single kuna in the budget for their return. Has this government encouraged the Republic of Serbia to provide funds in their budget for their return to their hearths in the Republic of Serbia? It's not. Through the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, the funds for the return of Croats to BiH have been reduced from 9m to 6m kuna. Why? There's no special explanation. Double taxation of pensions acquired abroad, which we have been warning for almost two years, the government is constantly deafening to this. These are insignificant funds for the income of the state budget but additionally refuse Croatians to move to Croatia because they do not want to give their hard-earned money to this government which has remembered that it could additionally fill the budget with these taxes. The foreign exchange fines for pensions in Croatia at the annual level are € 4.5 billion. They could have increased even more that there was more wisdom because our citizens who realized them remain in fact in those countries where they had achieved them and did not drag them back to the Republic of Croatia. It's not just foreign exchange bonds for pensions, but it's also helping families, real estate taxes, etc. The logical question is whether this government is doing it on purpose? Do they actually want to punish Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? It is widely known that Croatia has the largest number of Croatians living in the diaspora compared to the population. In fact, the exact number is not known because there has never been a single real record for various reasons. Let's remember, when she defended herself from the great Serb aggression, then no Croats wondered where they came from, it was important to get them as many as possible. We forget that even during the Homeland War, they made a great contribution to the people and materially. After all, this space where we are discussing today and tonight and where we are working, this panel says it was renovated with money evicted and native Croatia in '95. A year. And that doesn't bother us today. Today, instead of helping them and making life easier for them outside of Croatia, for which they are very longing for us to complicate and actually turn them into second-class citizens. A serious state aware of these facts, aware of the facts, the economic facts in which it is well thought out, because when I say Croatia defended itself from major Serb aggression then we did not administratively harass them, but we were happy to have more Croatia outside of Croatia enlisted in the defense of the Republic of Croatia. Today and in this budget for 2015, we should actually tell them that we care about them coming back and investing their capital and knowledge in the Republic of Croatia. With this budget and the draft budget for 2015, we now make it clear to them how and how we think about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93653	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93654	Dear Madam Vice President, my colleague Babic, you have spoken now about the Croats and the relationship of our government, but I think towards the Croats outside Croatia, but I don't think you have said one way that the Croatian public should actually understand. And that is that the Croatian government has left the Croats outside the Croatian state to the mercy of those countries where they live, to be assimilated. She said clearly we don't care about you, right there, you live as you know and can. Well, I wouldn't say it hurts them, but in some cases it does, but it doesn't help anyway. What am I supposed to say? What is wrong with this, which is missing from this Croatian government, what attitude these days about politics around Seselj, about these circuses etc. The Croatian government should say Croatia will enter the EU at the moment you give the Croats all rights, Serbia will enter the EU at the moment when it gives all rights to Croats and other minorities who have Serbs in Croatia, no more. I am for all rights that Croats enjoy in Croatia. Let's give more, let them say what they have to do. But Serbia must also give it, and thus it should lead international policy and external relations. And not that Vesna Pusic calls man a lunatic, he is not mentally ill, he is high above average intelligent man, a political person, in prison in communism because of his political attitudes, so are God's health to speak in Belgrade as long as the blind in Croatia can see if they have not seen and in some way show what kind of political environment we live in. In such an environment, Croatia should protect Croats in Serbia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not behaving like they don't even care about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93655	Ante Babic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93656	I, if you followed, spoke about interstate agreements that the Croatian state has signed with those countries of Italy, with Austria, Hungary, Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia. On our part, we fulfill that part until other countries are less or less fulfilling. I will not mention any concrete figures now, but for example, for Macedonia, I know that at a level of approximately 100 to 120 thousand euros the funds are used in the Republic of Croatia and the Macedonian government does not give any lip to the Croatian national minority in Macedonia. In Italy, for example, the Croatian National Minority, which is a language recognition, does not receive a single lip and we give to the Italian National Minority in the Republic of Croatia tens and tens of millions. I don't mind, but that reciprocity should exist. What you said about Seselj's arrival and that, I think the Declaration was passed in the Croatian Parliament, we were in front of the Croatian Democratic Community and warned about it two weeks ago. The problem of the arrival of Seselj is not being considered today in Croatia, and the same should be considered by the Croatian government is that the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia is further intimidated by the joint military exercise between Serbia and Russia 60km from the Croatian border. No one wonders today how and how the Croatian national minority reacts knowing what it has actually been going through. And that's why I said that since the 1990s only Serbia has moved about 35 to 40 thousand Croats away, and that there is not a single lip in the Croatian budget, and it is even worse that the Croatian government does not potential that the Republic of Serbia puts in its budget funds for the return of Croats from Croatia to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93657	Comrade Nadia Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93658	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear Ministers with colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will not baptize this budget for 2015 either by social or developmental means, and we will see how realistic it is next year. But I will say that this is the first full European budget of the Republic of Croatia, because for the first time, we are truly aware of how much our future is really related to the EU. Of course, that's what we wanted. As a member of the EU, we have the right to reflective funds from European funds, and it is logical that in the coming years we rely more and more on these funds in terms of the central state, and in terms of units of local and regional self-government. That's why we're in the 2015 budget. You've calculated 7.2 billion kunas of European money. There is an observation that in the first year of membership we were not very successful in withdrawing this European money and that, based on such experience, we will no longer be successful in the future. We say this even though we all know very well that in the first year of our membership, other EU members were not successful in withdrawing European funds, but in the coming years this situation has changed significantly for the better, so we also want to believe that it will be the same for us. The withdrawal of European funds is possible under certain conditions, of course primary conditions are good, quality acceptable projects. However, since the spring of this year, since we are in the excessive deficit procedure, the conditions have certainly been a controlled budget deficit and a controlled public debt. Therefore, the assumption of this uninterrupted consumption of EU funds is the implementation of the Convergence Programme. So, if we are counting with European funds, we need to consolidate state finances. It is therefore logical that the greatest attention in the concept of this budget for 2015 is devoted precisely to reducing the budget deficit. According to the original plan, I recall, accepted by the European Commission as well, bringing the deficit below 3% and exiting the excessive deficit procedure was scheduled for 2016. Unfortunately, we are seeing today that this dynamic, this planned dynamic, we will not be able to respect, and that is why we moved that goal to 2017, we see by projections of '16. and '17. A year. We want to believe that we will get, behold, a blessing, so to speak, from the European Commission, that it will be flexible enough, that it will have as much understanding as in some other cases so far, so I will set an example for France. So that's how it's already extended the deadline for getting out, so reducing the budget deficit. What I'm saying is that there's really no harder situation when you're making a budget than there's no economic growth, which we've been seeing here for six years, so you can't count on new budget revenues, and on the other hand, you've got expenditure on the spending side, and that's much bigger, much bigger than the revenues. This is due to the fact that GDP growth in Croatia has been based for years on the growth of consumption, therefore both those of the public and state-owned and state-owned investments. So, we were building highways and we had a state-of-the-art apartment building. However, in recent years, the state as an investor has blown out, there are no more resources available, borrowing is no longer acceptable because we have a huge public debt and this public debt has its price in terms of huge interest and it is actually a devastating data that the deputy minister said that Croatia pays 30 million kuna interest every day. Of course, interest increases the budget deficit, and the deficit is over and over again in public debt, and it's actually one vicious circle, but every day with increasing negative numbers. And most importantly at this point, this high deficit and high public debt obstacle are for the smooth use of European accumulation, and with it we count as, here's one of the most important developmental levers. Economic growth should be the economy, but the Croatian economy has been neglected for years, and as far as the public sector is concerned, it has been additionally and systematically robbed. You know who it's from. Today, we simply have too few large players who would be willing to behave competitively, i.e. the market confrontation, and the private sector is speculating and it is difficult to actually start it on investment. There is simply no real entrepreneurial will, there is no risk preparedness, although there is capital, in banks at the moment we have over 170 billion saved capital, and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a state development bank offers excellent products, therefore credit products, however, have little hearing on the ground for them. The truth is that even EU members do not achieve spectacular economic growth, and unlike us, they did not have a criminal conversion and privatisation, they did not have a Homeland War, a five-year war that has largely devastated, devastated production capacities, and we did not have a systematic robbery of public companies. Regarding the necessary structural changes that everyone is talking about, but at a truly one principle level, so no one's saying anything, no one's suggesting anything concrete. There are still no major reforms, but unfortunately for them not even one mandate is enough, so it should definitely take two mandates. But what we have to admit and what it has, there's a lot more order from state finances to local self-government. The 2015 budget contains changes related to the application of the Regional Development Act and the Law on the financing of units of local, or regional self-government. We have a lot of resistance from local and regional self-government units because because of the change in status, one part of them will lose some of the benefits that they have used for 20 years. However, it is clear that units of local and regional self-government must participate in carrying the burden of excessive deficit procedures and that they must participate in creating conditions for more balanced regional development in Croatia because at the moment the differences in development are enormous, so it is unacceptable indeed that we have units of local self-government that are at the level of 20% of the average development of the Republic of Croatia, and that we are not talking about how much their lack of development is compared to one city in Zagreb. Therefore, the leaders of the local self-government units in the future will be much less pilgrim to the ministries, typing and seeking money from ministers, and far more with quality projects must compete for European funds and thus prove their success. So it's not going to be that easy anymore, it's going to be a lot harder and it's going to be more competitive. And to conclude, this is a budget that has been accepted by the recent Croatian reality, so our reality, but at the same time it has also been anticipating the possibility of development of the Republic of Croatia as members of the EU based precisely on European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93659	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93660	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Jelash, you said that the deficit, or budget, should be consolidated, reduce the deficit and that this budget has been anticipated by Croatia's reality. Wrong. Sorry, wrong. Either you don't understand or you're selling us demagogy. So imagine you government in this crisis situation when we speak publicly on the front pages of these daily texts known to have to fire tens of thousands from public service these past days is already a figure... so the government is now taking 350 clerks. So who do you sell the fog to? Is that an anti-cryping reality? Well, that's an anti-ciption of what? Nothing. I want to be decent within decent borders. It's an anti-cryping nonsense or a budget... let's take your 350-person children from lovers what I know is that anyway we'll lose power they'll stay in power and ok. Nothing more. So you've got 50 grand maybe extras or 10 or 5 grand. And now these 350 children who come to our senses will be saved to withdraw funds from the EU. There were supposed to be experienced people who've been working around the ministries for 10 years and they've had to concentrate on the frame of mind, industriousness, commitment, patriotism all in one team so that this could be answered by these demands of moment and countercipe reality. This is an anti-ciption of nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93661	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93662	My colleague Marasovic, you now want to convince me if I understand you well that this budget does not accept the present and talk about 350 thousand employees in public servants. ... 350 or 250 grand? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, if we only took 350 then we took really little from what you did in your term, it's really not worth mentioning. And what you're saying I've heard in several replicas, so we should agree on one team, in one line you said that there are five people who could solve all of our problems, so I really ask that you patent it and that it really happens. ... Great, that's all you have to do. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93663	When you come to power, you'll give those five names. I'm a colleague of Dragan Montenegrins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93664	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, Pupovac, in today's debate, has expressed the views of the SDSS Club on the budget of the Republic of 2015, and I'm going to try to touch some more details. First of all, I would say that in the past three years and the past three budgets that have been brought absolutely understood that the Republic of Croatia is in a difficult state and that some things must be given up. However, we warned that places in local self-government units must have a certain level of resources in order to simply function for the most part because these are areas affected by the war, we talked about most of the PPDS where assumptions are being made that people are coming back, and when they return to create assumptions that they could normally get hired or do what they used to do on their own estates. Among other things, in this year's budget proposal, these funds are further reduced and I will once again problem these figures that, for example, for certain municipalities have fallen extremely drastically and if it stays this way, and we hope it will not stay this way, and units of local self-government could de facto close the door in the second month and put the key in the lock. I'll give you a list of some of them, say Ervenik Municipality, which was given to help local and regional self-government from the Ministry of Finance almost 2.5 million kuna, is now projected to receive 96,475 kuna at the level of a year, which is, as you can see, a drop of 2 million 445 thousand kuna or, say, the Kistanje Municipality that won even 2013. 4 million 405,000 kuna, now projected 219.024 kuna. Let's also say in the Supreme Face with a million and 24 grand on 213,000 kunas, etc. etc. We will, in fact, have already tabled an amendment to these items of the budget proposed for 2015. We think we have very big reasons and the government to support our amendments is this about the existence of local self-government. Because if nothing changes on these items, we're afraid that absolutely as I said, if not in the second month, but certainly very quickly to question the work of these units of local self-government, is their original income extremely, extremely small. Among other things in these self-governments, as you know, there are a large number of Croats who have moved from Kosovo, for example in Kistanje, etc. Most of that population doesn't work. However, as I said, we were aware of the difficult situations and not only on those items but also on the other paragraphs in the previous three years we reduced. I want to say this because there were words on the budget's rebalancing, but in a negative context, and they were probably saying our colleagues because they didn't know. Certain items relating to the Ministry of Education and as obligations of the Republic of Croatia as their citizens to members of national minorities who are educated in languages and letter of national minorities are reserved for that class. And among other things, so does minority institutions. So here I am going to do just for some items, for example, an item relating to the education and education of children of members of national minorities, so A577131, so the promotion of the education of national minorities, as part of the activities of promoting the education of national minorities, will provide funding for the implementation of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities in accordance with the Law on Education and Education. Even there were sometimes 3 million kunas before 2012, even if the item was reduced to a million and 300,000 kuna. We support that at least she stays at that lowest level, which is a million and 581 thousand kuna. That's what we intervened in the rebalancing of the budget. Thus, the item relating to specific education programmes and the implementation of a national minority programme that was once a million and a half kuna is now the 789 thousand plan. We also ask that this item, according to all members of the national minorities, to remain at least at a minimum of one million and 277 as far as it has been. And there were two things in the rebalancing that other clubs mentioned but unfortunately they didn't know what they were talking about. And what some colleagues mentioned, relations under interstate agreements, I would say that, just to mention some things, we had a recent interstate commission between, or interstate mixed committee between Croatia and Serbia. Let's say the Croats in Serbia have a television newsroom, Serbia in Croatia has no HRT, not only Serbs, not a single national minority on HRT. Croatians also have constitutional institutions as the Budjetski Croatian National Council, the institution for the culture of Vojvodina Croats, the Croatian Press Publishing Institute in Subotica. Serbs in Croatia do not have any institution as such registered in Croatia but only under the Association Act. And normally these funds relating to the Office for National Minorities, which are obtained under the foundation of the office, are not sufficient for the work of these institutions. And I'm going to say one more thing about education, last year the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports funded the production of new textbooks in the amount of the 27 million kuna budget. National minorities remained at the million-and-a-half funds where not only do they enter textbooks and translate textbooks and make author's textbooks, but also professional gatherings, etc. We didn't insist on knowing what the situation was and every national minority needed two textbooks at a time seems to me. We used to do new textbooks in the Republic of Croatia, so 4 years ago in that item only Serbs, only the Serb community had 8 million kuna, only Serbian. And I'm going to go back to only one item, and this is what I would ask the people of the Ministry of Finance to listen to me because there's probably been a mix-up in the written explanations of the items of the budget. So on the item as I have already said A577137 specific education programmes for the implementation of national minorities' programmes, page 254 discusses this, the following, says the National Strategy for Roma inclusion for the period from 2013 to 2020, the priority policy of the Roma inclusion strategy is the education of Roma, in particular preschool education and education. In this way, education and education of the Roma national minority are classified in the strategic frameworks of the Republic of Croatia in the field of education. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall closely and constructively monitor the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports co-finances preschool education and preschool program of members of the Roma National Minority and parental participations and activities after teaching, accommodation and nutrition in the dorms, the work of Roma assistants scholarships for secondary school students, and students, as well as additional and additional teaching for students who do not know or are insufficiently familiar with Croatian language. So as I've already said, I want to draw attention because this shouldn't be found under this article, this is probably someone's misspelled because the Roma have their own item, this is about education programmes for the implementation of national minorities' programmes. The Roma have no right or should I say so in the Republic of Croatia not to conduct education in their own language but to conduct education in Croatian language and letter. So here should probably be this whole paragraph or deleted or changed as it used to be because it refers to the education of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93665	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93666	Your Honor, Madam President, it's late, I see, but we'll be working till midnight anyway, and the public is criticizing us that the state's torment is paying us, so there's a lot of truth in it. Today's the day. You are a representative of the Serbian national minority, and when you were in the coalition with HDZ, then at the end of the year, since the government was on thin wire, which is said to be just 1, 2, 3 votes, give us 300 million, 3 billion. It was given to you, so it wouldn't be given. The Serbian national minority, the largest minority, so to whom we will give, may the people be satisfied and should be satisfied. But now you're in an absolute committed love with Milanovic, unconditional. Well, here's this, they stayed on the 1st vote, this set, it seems to me that the Italians are better marketed than you are, they're normally always better merchants than Serbs. What you didn't use now and ask Milanovic for 300 million, but hold his hand, which I know in advance. Di is your courage, is that what it is not to say a little... what you were with HDZ in power... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't mention it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But unconditionally, here you are, looking now, there's no budget if you don't get 300 million, sometimes it gives you at least 30, so make a poor girl in Kordun here and where there's no electricity, where there's no electricity. So don't always invest in some education, it's... Toys, nothing more, for nothing dropped money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Make a poor girl, I'm telling you communal infrastructure around Bania and Kordun and China and there, not to throw these here. I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93667	Dragan Montenegrin, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93668	Well, first of all, the Serbs have no one to give, the Serbs are Croatian citizens and earn money for the Croatian budget. ... They don't, there's a status as a national minority. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We didn't have to, we could've been a constituent people still. As for Duja, you could have fought for it so we wouldn't be a national minority, as far as that goes. And as for all the other things you listed, I am sorry, but I see that you are probably not familiar with the conditions of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. We're sorry, first of all, after that date of this thing, especially in these crisis years they were probably to say the easiest thing to do is to reduce the duration of the crisis. And as for what you said to Cordun, Bania and other parts, you know when there is not one factory there is neither for Serbs nor for Croats, nor for anyone to live in that area, and there were as many factories as I remember. I'll tell you where I come from. The combination of skin and footwear Borovo probably employs 500 workers now, if they were Serbs, Croats or anyone else living in the area, and once employed more than 20,000 and lived not only for those who worked in the combination but also for those who sold their fruit and vegetables, but also for the people who worked in the factory, but also for the whole surrounding area, for those farmers who sold their fruits and vegetables, but also for their products in the city and beyond. Unfortunately, it... and that privatisation and all the other procedures that happened in the previous years put everything in one awkward position. We can't ask now just give it to the Serbian factory, should we just look for the Serbian factory?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93669	Big Kajtazi, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93670	Thank you. Dear fellow Montenegrin, I fully agree with you when you speak because you have repeatedly noted in your discussion the difficult situation. Right, I agree with you. And I have to tell you when it comes to the Roma community, it's been a difficult situation for 40-50 years, and that's exactly why the previous government has brought in two strategic documents today, which is the National Strategy for Roma and Action and the Decade for Roma. You also noted that the Serb national minority has its textbooks, curricula, etc. Not only Serbian but also have all those other national minorities, unlike the Roma national minority, who has neither their own teaching programmes nor their textbooks, etc. That's one thing. Secondly, what is also recognised in 1997 are national minorities, and when it comes to the Roma community, we also know that in minority languages, the Roma community is not recognised and that is one of the reasons why the Roma community may not have its textbooks, nor its curricula, etc. I deeply believe we'll do everything we can to make that happen right now. And otherwise, as far as the funds themselves are concerned, we can see that all resources have been reduced, they have also been reduced to members of the Roma national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93671	You won't answer? Comrade Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93672	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Minister. So here's something I'm going to say about this budget because I've been thinking all day about how to even discuss this document because we can only do two ways, or we can just catch up with numbers, and then why this so much, or some other possibility, so I'm going to try to talk at least with logic because we're aware of the moment we live in, and it's certainly not easy, and it's not as nice as it was tried to present it here today. And experience has been saying over the past three years that we're going to fix this document, because simply in the form it's made up it won't last long. I've been trying to get into the thinking of ordinary citizens, which they even think when they listen to this debate all day long. There were also good, fantastic thoughts and arguments, but also completely some missed ones and I can even say that she was going well. And the prime minister went to explain what he was offering through the budget and then the asphaltation. Asphalting takes the whole budget in the wrong direction. I don't think it's worthy of talking in this form about this budget because all after that was a transfer of responsibility, who owed someone more. We've looked into the past, then we've projected some future full of illusions, some optimism, and the citizens are looking at this, and they can really sometimes wonder if this all makes too much sense. Maybe it's best described, the general state of Mr. Greek when he said and that's the responsibility to talk about, this is a good budget, we're Social Democrats, we're gonna pay for salaries, pensions, social benefits, and we're gonna act like the one who sticks his head in the sand and doesn't see anything around him, and already someone's gonna come and they're gonna have to do something because I don't see another final. So it's enough to say I'm a Social Democrats or we're Social Democrats and everything's gonna be fine and it's gonna be nice and it's gonna convince us that that's exactly the logic. For me, logic is looking back and he says in 2012, we didn't have an excessive deficit procedure, we had problems. In 2013, too, in 2014, we entered the excessive deficit procedure, we have a lot of problems, and then we'll continue in 2015, but there won't be any problems, we'll pay it all off, we'll even have a historically smallest deficit, even the Institute will come out of the budget with its 20 billion, health care will work, everything will be nice. It's simply a pre-election year, and we need to approach the citizens after three years of exorcising them and it's all going to work and this budget is going to hold. And now we're looking for such a story at least 80 or at least 77 hands who are willing to believe it, in such a logic, that we can better live with the excessive deficit procedure than without it, and that we'll do it better when we're in the process, than when we weren't. And that it's all actually going to be one beautiful event that just needs to be followed in the future. And we know that's not the case, we know that's not the case. So why, I'm telling these stories that if we can't even figure out what the health deficit is. That they would be saved at all levels, and all sorts of divisions were even increased. And increased. So it's all gonna save the funds and some 7 billion kunas that are here, and they're about to get here, and it's just gonna take a little effort. But mostly the accent was re-emerged to local self-government. It's the state, the state will take it. Local self-government. They're in trouble, they won't take maybe. And then it's not our fault. I remember sometimes, I remember those times. The Parliament used to be really a place to argue like this, today we're gonna end up maybe nine and a half hours, maybe the earliest ever. This was till 2:00 in the morning. There were conflicts, arguments, opinions. Even parliamentary representatives once could do something with their amendments, at least until 2000. There have been many events. We said it wasn't right, so we'll leave. I'm asking a question, what's the point of me asking some kind of amendment to a budget like this? Does it even make sense? I'll be the first one who won't set any. I tried last year, you just can't. You're not worth anything. We're looking for 77 hands that are willing to support a document like this. We're just the observers here. How many questions are asked today and answers have been received? Almost every question asked was almost unresponsive, the right answer, an argumentable answer that would offer something different. It'll all explain some kind of PR, spin, media. It'll sort of work out for the citizens, they'll vote on Tuesday. We're all going happily in 2015. Of course, the Minister of Finance has the greatest responsibility. It's not easy for him, I believe. And he has to do what he wrote down, I guess, and defend it. But I wonder, here I come from the eighth constituency, looking at all the items. Where's that eighth constituency? Istria, Rijeka, a little Zagreb coast. Nothing. Here we may tell the citizens that we wish them health and happiness that at least they survive in health and happiness if there are no other things. 'Cause let's say what's waiting for us on the islands? I'm looking at an item here. Whom shall I ask what this reduction of 20 million means to boost the lines towards the islands? Who's going to explain that to me? Are we about to be cut off? Is Jadrolini going to be able to function better, because we've fallen from 380 now to 310 million kuna in three years, and this Jadrolini has to work. 100,000 islanders must travel. What I see is that we have some kind of ID to register, that when I buy a ticket, I buy a ticket for myself and my family with one car with five credit cards. Imagine that! And let me show those five cards once more when I get on the ferry. I guess that'll save you some money. I don't believe that. I'm watching a programme to rebuild Jadrolinia, ordered 4 ferrys 40 million euros. Where they'll put four tractors when all the lines have been filled before. Here comes one, I'm happy here, on the line Lobisca – Lopar, new ferry, 150 vehicles on a two-and-a-half million kuna subsidy and 14 miles away. I claim a loss at the beginning, but good. There's no one to talk to about it. The islands here finally got something more, 30 million. And then yesterday I ask the lady who deals with how to make one project on the island with all those positions you have. He says criteria, procedures, and you have to have a good project. I'm asking what a good project this is. We don't know what a good project is? You report school, it's not a good project. You report kindergarten, it's not a good project. You report to the gym, it's not a good project. Anything you report at one point you realize it's not a good project, and we're all talking about good projects, we're all talking. What I'm sure will be at least a choice and one referendum, if not two. There's 180 million kuna here if I look at it right. Probably counts with a referendum, if that's the amount. I look at a small part of the CERP, meaning the property center of this country they're looking at tenders for sale of assets, but the largest item is credits and borrowing to return. And now I don't know if they're only asking questions so they can try to sell something, but they're sure in advance they won't sell anything or just scare the public, because I'm very interested in it alive. Once again, they are reviewing the invitation to privatise the hotel house on Rab Imperial. The first contest fell somehow, no one was interested. So what do we do now? What's going on now? I was told here that the condition was to raise the level of my island and the services provided through that hotel company to four stars. And the price of 250 million kuna plus 200 million investment from own funds. Now these conditions are lifted second, and I guess it'll just be the price that'll buy us for 250 million kuna. Not to talk about all the other hotel houses or any other property that should also be sold, because simply a man wonders who we should really talk to about some of the problems that bother us. And I believe the minister doesn't know how to tell us everything here, because I feel like we're all waiting for this to end. At least that's what I believe. There's always 30 of us here who drag every debate late into the night, if you've noticed. I noticed that. Really, maybe all the debates would be over by three o'clock, if there weren't 30 serious people here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93673	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93674	Col. Boric, you're saying that we're exhausting ourselves with the debates, and really these last two weeks we've talked about taxes, we've talked about and fought for the Gorski Kotar for assisted areas, we've talked about the Law on the Communist Economy, and what we could hear today from the first man of this government, and what can we expect in the following year? Today's debate is the introduction to the most important document that must be brought, which means the life of this country and its citizens in the coming year. We've heard criticism of local self-government units and pave the way for his street. And imagine what he's boasting about these three years of office. He boasts of the fissalization and the project that this government has implemented and we know who did the project, here's the minister then, with whom this first man of this government, as far as we could hear from the media and the mouth of that minister, hasn't spoken in almost a year. And what can we expect next year? How can we believe what Minister Doncic told us about the changed route of the Zagreb-Rijeka plain track, about many, many projects? I don't know what happened in this country in three years at all, except that the investments have stopped, the budgets have stopped, and what at this point everyone in the entire state in all local self-government units can know that our budgets have fallen, that we are going to be able to make ends meet and that we are all looking forward to this agony until the next parliamentary elections are over as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93675	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93676	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Klaric may have missed my hearing, too, I don't know, I tried to make an impression. Here's the impression of this budget and all day. Asphaltation, let's go all the way. Asphalting happened on the local board where the SDP is in power and SDP ordered this asphalting, you understand. And then comes the prime minister who says it's not good before the end of the year to work means. And the living truth is, what do we do now? So he probably criticized some of his colleagues who run that local committee. And maybe it's not really smart, but it happened. But it can't be the main focus of today's budget debate because we're not in any surplus, so we can think happily about where to reroute some excess. We are in trouble and are constantly suggested that we can live better, better quality than when we didn't have it. And that's what someone's gonna vote for, and that's the problem. Is our responsibility at what level is expected? Because there aren't any reforms here, there aren't any. That's what many people said today, not to be repeated. And let's wait for those elections when they are because there's simply no other obvious solution. The Prime Minister himself said that we... I suppose we all suffer between ourselves or the power between the peoples and the authorities, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, this budget is a test and that. Those who want to raise their hands may raise their hands, but really, who believes in this very quickly will be convinced because if we think it's really so easy now and simply maybe someone on the side will tell us that we were wrong so we can fix ourselves and make ourselves do what we might have been able to and should have done in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93677	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93678	Your Honor, Madam President. You said you didn't know what the health deficit was. You know everything, colleague Boric. And we haven't shown this health deficit at all in our budget this year. Well, if it is necessary for the good of Croatia, so be I. But it's known and let the government say it. But it won't save us, nor will it save us for hiding it, nor will it save us for what counterpart Jelash said to the Italians and the French. You've found an ally! So when were the French also Italians for Croatia? They always set us up. So when the socialist governments from Mitterand to taking Split and everything else, who did you find to be an ally? Yeah, yeah. And when the socialist governments solved the economy, in which state do you tell me? None. That's one thing. They can't be a good ally. And that the secret will save us, so you know who the ambassador and the EU ambassador are? My colleague dermatologist, I am dermatologist Branko Baričević, dermatologist from Shalate. My colleague and friend. I was with him last week at a local party upstairs. And now he doesn't know Branko Baricevic's doctor how much healthcare debts are. No matter what, I'm the strongest. But I'm not gonna screw him with anything, I'm gonna tell him that the deficit is going to be 0, but he needs to be given, he should drink the Dingachi to believe it. Not give him a beer. It's no use hiding the truth. Croatia can save the truth, we need to face our reality and make a team and get the country out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93679	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93680	Thank you very much. You're right, colleague Marasovic. This was supposed to be the budget of Croatian truth and Croatian today, not some illusion, or the desire to consider that this government was also the best government and the best government ever, and that only after that should it continue and in the next kind of mandate do this work in the same way with the same people. So then they all kind of came into a situation that maybe we're talking about what's nice to hear. And I always say and repeat better to be slapped by the truth than to be kissed by a lie. But I'm getting more and more inclined to really get into that period when we're gonna have to sober up and say what it is and what it's supposed to look like, and someone's gonna have to do it. Because this way, I think, I'm saying that someone convinces me that with the excessive deficit procedure we don't have a problem at all that even in the budget we have so many reserves that we can reduce the deficit by a few billion without any problems and everything will be great. I'm simply not ready to believe it or raise my hand for such an unargumented attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93681	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93682	Comrade Boric, remember the times when they yelled many budgets can be reduced by 10 billion, it can be, it can be like that, but one thing is to yell and the other one to do it. However, my reason for the replica is state property management and DUDI. Remember how pompously it was announced that DUDI made a register of property, he was just what was in the closets put on a modern medium that could be seen. However, what unfortunately happened in our governments also happens in this very intensively, the PR agencies serve to present and make things beautiful. But the PR agencies aren't about to start and finish. So this DUDI, what did he sell that he put into operation? So remember the pompous stories about these unspective military facilities, the tourist facilities that happened, nothing. Is that right for someone? I don't know, but I know nothing's going on. In these three years, so many registers have been published that a man's head hurts. Remember first the list of taxpayers, wonders of charge 100, 200 million. Well a list, actually a register of Croatian defenders. It's a pompous story about how many court rulings it is to take someone's defensive status. But very interesting in Croatia are those who allegedly are false defenders, and someone who has all the documents that the Croatian defender cannot obtain the status of the Croatian defender because he says you did not apply to the law. So who asked you when the war was or didn't sign up? But unfortunately, it's a PR story, but the PR story led us here to get us. When people realize that this is a bloody and difficult job and that you can't do a real and quality thing that everyone will clap on you, be happy if one more than half of it claps on you, then Croatia will be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93683	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93684	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Shuker, because I am a witness and I am trying to fight as hard as my options as a parliamentary representative are, and they are not great. We have indeed become observers of everything that is happening without any great opportunity to influence something because it is probably the system that is set up and not by this government and it doesn't matter. But I'm looking at the sale of the Golog Island, as it is, I don't think the gentleman who runs DUDI knows or can't do better, but you're selling the Goli Island in a way that invites everyone interested to write what they would like to write there without any conditions, and even 1,000 kunas of ordinary taxes to get into that system at all, so someone will already consider whether they'll give 1000 kuna for their idea. Then 30 of them write what they would like there on one symbol of time, totalitarian time and become at one point all the entities to talk to and what should be, without any obligation, no guarantees, no let's say deposit of anything, and sell. What are we gonna sell that way to who we're gonna sell it to that way? Well, I guess that's not how you do it in the serious world. And then we hear what's supposed to be there, and then you just wonder where and what country we live, what kind of people are run by institutions and why they're doing it that way, and yet I'm going back to the story of the imperial one. It was a four-star condition, so everyone has to invest in the standard that appears and has to raise the level. Now we'll only stay at a bare price who's ready for 50% of the shares to give 250 million kuna. Which means a change of ownership for us on the island when a company like this works perfectly this year despite a slightly worse season and has a profit of nearly 14 million kuna. And every year he invests 30 million kunas in the reconstruction of the facilities. Which would make me look forward to some new owner when everything works and has a social note. Social security that worker, at least as much as he can survive there from his work. But unfortunately, that's what's waiting for us in this beautiful 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93685	My colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93686	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The state budget is the basic financial act of each state and best reads all the priorities and direction of governance of the current political authority. I hope that the projection of growth and the revenue side of the budget will be achieved at the level set out in this document, otherwise we will again be followed by frequent rebalancing that leads to a reduction of funds and, due to the lack of financial resources, often conditioned the abandonment of... targets on the dissatisfaction of all participants involved in this process. Although some items of the budget relating to national minorities have been reduced, it can generally be said that all items relating to national minorities and financial assumptions for the execution of cultural autonomy and other activities of national minorities have remained at similar levels as in previous years. In this respect, in the separation of the intended bodies that finance these items by reducing largely, the reduction was followed by the fates of the entire state budget, although some detachment for national minority programmes can be made large, in these times of crisis they are still too small in view of the needs of the Roma community in particular. Two of the most important public bodies in charge of funding national minorities' programmes, the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Council for National Minorities have the intended budget at last year's level to guarantee that programmes and other projects of national minorities will continue to be able to implement. The National Minorities Council has decided to increase the isolation for Romania, Bosniak and Albanian national minorities due to the increase in the number of members of these national minorities in line with the latest census. Since this budget provides for stagnation and a slight reduction of resources for that body of the state administration, this objective will be difficult to achieve, in particular, by not touching the resources of other national minorities. In particular, I believe that a little more money should be allocated for some numerically smaller national minorities such as Russia, Ukraine, Poland and Russia, at least so that their basic programmes can be financed. This would not be... in the budget, and much would mean for these national minorities whose activities in the field of cultural amateurism and publishing have strengthened and increased in recent years. It is unquestionable that the greatest attention should be paid to the Roma national minority, which is certainly the most endangered. The Roma national minority traditionally characterizes a low level of education and employment and a high level of unemployment and social assistance addiction. Therefore, efforts to improve the life of that community in the long term should be priorities in order to minimise the social exclusion of that national minority. In this regard, I point out that the positive trend is to increase the money allocated to the active employment policy of Roma national minorities through the Croatian Public Works Programme. Such programmes are extremely important despite their temporaryity, since they include Roma in the labour market and show by example that it is possible to live from their work. Unfortunately, such programmes are temporary and do not result in permanent abandonment of social benefits. In particular, it is a sad fact that the poor practice of not hiring highly educated Roma who have completed colleges in recent years is so unfortunately that employment through public works remains almost the only way of hiring persons of the Roma national minority. While the increase in funds for Roma employment through public works is certainly good news, the reduction of funds intended to implement a national strategy for Roma integration 2013. – 2020, certainly bad news for the Roma in the Republic of Croatia. In this particularly important item for the implementation of one of the two strategic documents relating to Roma in the Republic of Croatia, the funds have been reduced from and such modest 191 thousand kuna to 155,000 kuna. Whether this reduction in funds that the Roma of previous years have been given too much or that means they no longer need the funds. I have already mentioned several times in this House when discussing financial plans and documents the need for a detailed specification of budget items aimed at improving the Roma problem in order to gain a more transparent insight into the funds for Roma. For example, a good example of this practice is already mentioned separately for Roma employment through public works carried out by HZZ and the above mentioned item for the scholarship of Roma students enrolled in higher school institutions. I would like that practice to be extended to other items of the Roma budget so that the Roma community knows how much money is available to make the same use more effective. In particular, this relates to the amounts in the social assistance sector, since the Roma population in the Republic of Croatia is highly dependent on these fees, and it is certainly necessary to specify in the budget the items of the national Roma inclusion strategy. Where the bases are listed they are often incomprehensible. I'll give you one example. In the item relating to the action plan for Roma inclusion, the subparagraph to which almost half of the amount is referred, I quote, helping the days abroad and within the general budget, which is quite incomprehensible. This way I express the dissatisfaction of half-managed funds intended for the roof Roma organisation in the Republic of Croatia. It is known to the Roma National Council that the Roma community has been characterized by a discrepancy between their associations over the past years, which has often made it impossible to implement quality projects and programmes aimed at improving the life situation of the community. The Roma National Council has just managed to overcome numerous divisions among the Roma population and has been successfully acting as a roof Roma organisation in the Republic of Croatia in recent years. And this significant reduction of funds will certainly not have a positive impact on the organisation's operational capabilities. Namely, the Roma National Council is in the process of adapting space for its activities and for this particularly important item that the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia would for the first time get its official space. The following year, no funds were allocated in the form of capital donations, which certainly presents a major problem for the completion of the work and normal functioning of the organisation. I, therefore, urge this way as a representative of 12 national minorities in this House to maintain this level of detachment from the state budget next year and, in particular, to increase as a consequence. I hope for a better economic situation, regardless of which political option was in power, because the integration and improvement of the living conditions of members of national minorities, and especially the Roma national minority cannot and should not be spared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93687	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93688	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. While we often discuss this on the Joint Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, in this year we also discussed the action plan of a decade for Roma inclusion, and this item is not, as far as I know, reduced, some of the items related to the Roma support project are true for a certain part of the reduction, and you said that perhaps more funding should be provided and that the state should worry a little more because the level of Roma unemployment and unemployment in the Republic of Croatia is high. The truth is given the means you have, and the ones for those who give them are great, and for those who receive them are small and that incomprehensibility you spoke of, which is actually more of a problem for you because the Roma who listen to this tonight, they talk about enormously large amounts and you know yourself that your amounts are not really that big, but they're not small. Says one saying, "Romania, money, no money." As far as I know in that dictionary you gave me. Most of the funds have been reduced, but this part of the campaign plan for the decade I understand is not reduced due to the correction, although it has been slightly increased by 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93689	The reply to the replica, Reverend Veliko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93690	Thank you. Dear colleague Babić, I fully agree with you when you speak as I mentioned earlier that the funds have been increased, and we are all aware of what it looks like on the ground. Apparently, the funds that stand out are too small, it's like a drop in the sea. Given what I just mentioned 40 and 50 years ago, we've singled out for exactly such a national minority as the Roma National Minority. When you are also talking about the action plan or the Decade for the Roma, the funds are increasing, but in the budget we have bases that are incomprehensible and which you cannot accurately assess why and where the funds are being spent and that is the only thing that I have appealed for three years back and every time I call in what way and how to look at them. Because the Roma community on the ground when it's said that the allocated funds are 20, 30, 40 even 70 million kunas are huge funds, and... it doesn't see in improving the lives of the Roma community.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93691	Damir Cain has applied for the debate, but he has no right to lose. Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. During today's debate, it will almost be 11 hours as we discuss the budget we have had the opportunity to hear a number of times that this budget is real, that this budget is European, that the budget is transparent. We can rightly ask ourselves what? This budget is European because it counts on European funds as in Panacea to save us from all economic and other disasters. This budget is real compared to the ability of the government to articulate it. We also saw in the presentation of this budget by the prime minister who was only entitled to discuss it for 6 minutes, and he did not answer the questions asked with any concrete data but spoke about the biographical data of those who asked questions. So it gets the impression that if you knew more about the budget or knew at least a part of what you know about your political partners and opponents that we would all be much better off. As far as transparency is concerned, we can illustrate this in relation to development strategies. I will be using the data here of what the Science and Education Strategy has warned already and academic Rainer, so we all have sworn in this strategy that it is crucial, that without the Education and Science Strategy there is no future and in that strategy it was said that from the current 3% of GDP should be reached 6% by 20%, in other words the increase should be 15% in order to achieve this in this subsequent period of 5.6 years. Roughly in the first year for science and education is increasing from 7, I'm not going to read all the numbers now, but from 7.2 to 7.7 billion is somewhere 106%. However, the following year in 2015, but 2016, this ratio falls to 96%. However, when we look at the items that it looks like for the scholarship of regular students and scientific training, I will now speak only in percentages in 2015 that the item has already been reduced to 61%. You have the equipment of primary school libraries and high school libraries with mandatory and professional literature the item is for 2015.The same as this year it is 100 thousand kuna, if we assume there are only 100 schools, and we know there are many more, it would be a thousand kuna a year or 10 books for professional training in primary and secondary schools. For investment in scientific research activity from 879 million, the next year it is reduced to 77%. The program of training of scientific recruits next year will be 21% lower than this year. The publication of domestic scientific journals, and we know that magazines are the basic medium of communication in science, decreases in the following year to 89% compared to the current year. The organisation of scientific gatherings has gone even worse and only 62% of the current year will be singled out in the following year. The publication of scientific books and textbooks goes to 36% compared to the current year. The incentive to develop science and invest in human resources is reduced to 4.9%. The centres of excellence remain at the same level as they are now for the first year, and we know that these centres of excellence are simply not financed enough to be able to do what we should do. Higher education seems to have an increase in the next year from 126% from Zagreb University to Split University between 2015 and 133%, but the following year, it is reduced between 70 and 74%. So I think who we want to fool here to be decent we brought this education strategy for science and education, a question that we then asked as an opposition to the Minister of Science and Education was a question, a minister who asked for support from the Parliament, that is, all MPs and ruling and opposition to receive support, the question was whether he had support in the current government. It is obvious from this that there is no such support. But what is far more important is that this budget is not in any correlation with strategic documents, those that exist and even less in correlation with one development, the National Development Strategy which is not even written or proposed but any government that wants to lead the country, which wants to be successful, must have such a strategy. And now we're actually coming up with something that we should all ask ourselves or is already a question of responsibility and the purpose of participation in this debate at all, and that is whether, in any way, to participate, whether with amendments or in any other form, in a situation where we explicitly have the Prime Minister's statements that he doesn't want to talk to anyone. He does not want to talk to his ministers, he does not want to talk to his government, he says the opposition is the underworld, that he does not want to talk to them at all, and no strategy at all, no long-term budget that goes towards financing a number of years of certain activities and activities cannot be done, cannot be successful if there is no consensus, then at least one agreement between the opposition and the ruling, among most parliamentary parties. It's just not rational. We will destroy ourselves with this one approach where there is no agreement at all on any fundamental or documents and development objectives. This government is smart, instead of warring with all the groups with which it's at war so far, it would stimulate itself to come as much as possible, that more, the more consensus, the more the referendum, the more the referendum, the more the year-on-year, the more the year-on-year, the more the more the questions are being prepared, the more we go to the referendum, the more the year-on-year, the more the year-on-year, the more the questions will be prepared, and then we don't go out 10 times or 5 times in the referendum, but then there will be tough points around which there won't be any doubts because the people want to fight on certain and the values and the programs simply not argue instead of going to realize them. And in that sense, I think that this budget is simply one document that is a series of facts, data that are in itself and probably accurate but concealing what is important because they are so fragmented that nothing holds them together. That's why I'm data, it can be accurate for itself, but it doesn't mean anything. Those who deal with information can know very well what I'm talking about. So with this, we don't know where we're going or where we're going. So for a government that runs such a policy that doesn't know where it's going and where it wants to come every time it gets there, it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93693	Thank you. The word gets a respected representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93694	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the end of the day, I have to talk about one subject that wasn't talked about today, and there's a lot of that said. We will all be happy to say that tourism is the most important economic branch of the Republic of Croatia. As I come from the coastal area we will gladly say that 95% of tourism in the Republic of Croatia is currently taking place in the area by the sea. I can't help but notice that so far in 2014 the Ministry of Tourism has received the modest, the most modest of all ministries of only 234 million. It is regrettable that in the next period the largest reduction of 12% means it will receive 205 million kuna with a tendency to do so even less in 2016. If we separate from that amount the part that is increasing, means for administration, for international cooperation, for restoration of the rolling stock, for information, then we get even more sad data. The tourism fund will receive as much as 50% or 20 million less in the following year. It has to be said that it's one of the better projects not just the tourism ministry, I would say these governments. That good and quality projects were being prepared to run for European funds, that there were different centres for visitors and new beaches were being designed, walking, cycling trails were being arranged, and indeed thanks to this fund there could be seen a lot of quality projects in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in due time. Subsidisation of the competitiveness of the tourism economy gets 35% lower. I wonder what we brought in April 213 and our main goal was to make the Republic of Croatia one of the 20 tourist destinations of the world competitive. Furthermore, strengthening tourism markets and human potentials in tourism will receive 30% less. How, then, do you expect increased employment, investment, tourism consumption? The safety of tourists in Croatia's mountain service save 500 000 kunas less than or 25% less, and we obviously forgot what was all the headlines of our newspapers and what all our members of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service were doing, mostly volunteers, with love and how many guests they saved, and thus contributed to our country's name being a safe country. Credit programme subsidisation programmes in tourism 20% less. The same strategy says that the launch and promotion of the development of small, medium and large business ventures in tourism should be a special goal for us. Also capital donations to citizens and households a million less, tourism promotion 2.8 million less. We can do anything, if we don't get a good promotion again, the guests won't know what they can offer and what they can get in our country. And then I wonder why we bring in a number of strategies in this House, my colleague Reiner also spoke about the Strategy for the Development of Science, here I am talking about the Strategy for the Development of Tourism, we promoted ourselves, Croatia 365 because our main goal of developing Croatian tourism is to increase our attractiveness and competitiveness and it is a good project that is on the right track, and now obviously with a lack of funds everything can stop. How we will develop along with becoming one of 20 tourist destinations and all of this previously listed, and the development of cultural, health, congressional cyclotourism, how we will develop a proactive fiscal policy when the holder of all these measures is the Ministry of Tourism, and in the coming years we are subtracting funds from it. It will hardly be possible for more ministers to boast, and this country will be able to say that as in this year, 410m euros in investment in tourism, that we have 1% more arrivals or 2% more overnights, although it is disputable, that the number of employees precisely thanks to tourism in the second quarter increased by 58 000 and that in July the unemployment rate was 17.8% to be 18.7% or 312 000 unemployed. Here is an appeal with the must, however, when the budget is agreed to take a little more care of tourism, that it is not only taken into account in the 6th and 7th months when it is time for vacations. And another item I talk about every time it comes to the draft state budget. I think it is really embarrassing to write that support for the equipment of voluntary fire companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to single out 1000 kuna for all voluntary fire companies in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93695	Thank you. The last reported one is the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93696	Thank you very much. The most important financial instrument in the Republic of Croatia is the state budget, and this is the most important instrument in every country and there is no area in which a more systematic, careful, more serious, more professional approach is needed as part of the preparation, development of the state budget. It no longer requires so much precision, except for some of the most demanding surgical requirements in hospitals. Why, why should you approach me like that? Because with the state budget, he is an instrument, so he is not a statistical review, he is the instrument and it is the most powerful instrument of economic policy with monetary policy, which affects the structure of the economy. So the budget changes the structure of the economy, the budget affects economic growth, the budget affects employment, the budget affects consumption, the budget affects income distribution, living standards, everything. And if we have budgets that give negative results, that don't change the structure of the economy, that don't increase employment, that don't increase economic activity, that lead to a new social gap, instead of increasing the standard of living for everyone, then we don't have good budgets, and then it can't be a good budget. The three so far have confirmed that they were bad, based on poor projections and have not produced certain results. 38 changes in the financial sector did not bring fruit. Something's wrong with the budget. This one is on the trail of the former, and then what is expected will not be achieved by it either. It's impossible, because it just doesn't change politics, it just changes statistics. But it's also not just about the problem in Croatian society and economics, there's a lot of wrongs. And legal uncertainty and financial indiscipline, we make laws, no one respects them. But most importantly, I won't do too much about it, but Mr. Minister, as long as the Croatian National Bank is hyberizing you won't do anything with this budget positive, and there's been a phase of hibernation of constants for 20 years. Until we amend the CNB Act, no efficiency will be obtained by the state budget. And anyone who has any expertise in economics knows that. We're cut off. We changed the law to cut off our own feet. If the law does not change that the Croatian National Bank is also responsible for growth, for employment, for living standards, and while the State audit does not have the right to enter the National Bank and until it is on the state budget in this situation is not an accident in Israel in the state budget. But gentlemen, we have two states that are in trouble and another state that calls it the Croatian National Bank that swims in benefits. It swims from the heights of pay, from the way life, the cost and everything, and the irrationality. I'm glad you mentioned there was a problem with them the other day. However, I note that there are doses of superficiality in this budget. We cannot bring strategies and budgets that do not cover these strategies. We adopted the Demining Strategy, that each year it should be so much and so demining, and then in the state budget item, it cannot cover a third of it in expenditures. So what's the strategy? Either we change strategy or we respond. No item guarantees you, no item covering any strategy covers what the strategy provides. What's that? It's inconclusive. We adopted the education strategy the other day, which envisions an increase in funding, a rebalancing for the current year, which envisions an increase in the allocation for science and higher education and technology, and then comes the draft budget for 2015, which is lower than the rebalancing of the current year. And the strategy remains, that is, just in effect. Imbalance, imbalance at every turn. We've put the entire state up to date with the minister's statements on whether or not the highway concession is going to take place, so when something turns in one second, we're going to sell the HAC. Well, then in two seconds, the Prime Minister tells me whatever you're talking about, that's not true. The referendum is being organised, signatures are being collected for the referendum. The funds are being planned, and they are nowhere to be found, neither in the budget for next year nor in the projections for the sixteenth and the seventeenth. Either stop talking about the concession or put it into projection. Or maybe you'll give in concessions when you're out of power. I don't understand. There are huge risks to both income and expenditure breakthroughs. We've heard about health care. There's real, covert loss, constant, constant. It's not a process there, it's a process that lasts on a continuous basis. But when health standards and norms are finally established throughout Croatia, all of them, everywhere, will be worth the same. Why one meal costs a patient one amount of money in Split, the other in Koprivnica, the third in Zagreb, the fourth in Osijek. No standardized. And when it is a little bit evaluated, when the total cost of a particular purpose is divided by the number of patients, the number of doctors, the number of staff is not responding. That's a hell of a lot. Therefore, of course, it is necessary to provide for the costs which will cover the losses, but should also be rationalised in each segment of society. There's no... Who's got all the cars? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's amazing. Whom do all the drivers drive, how do official trips go, what's the escort? Well, that's amazing. There's a government office with four regular drivers, one government office that employs five people, four deputies. We're inventing functions. It's not true that expenses can't be reduced, that's not true. Not cutting pensions, not cutting wages has room and I'm glad the minister agreed with me that there's room to be rationalized. But finally, let's start rationalizing. No one wants to object to the former president and tell what will be financed by the state budget office of the former president. Well, give it to me at last, and we've got hundreds of those. Why? Come on, somebody explain it to me. The state is failing, and we former former president's offices are funding. The state of collapse we finance various associations. We're in debt to the state of decline, when you're talking about how much interest there is, and another 600,000 kuna for paying only parking one institution. So who's paying the parking attendants? They don't have anywhere to park, they come on foot, and at all possible levels up to the sixth level, everyone has a cell phone, every driver, every car. Well, that's scary! It's like they don't live in reality, like they don't know where, what kind of situation Croatia is in. What about public debt? Nobody runs it in the state. He's only being conducted as a statistical data. Public debt is just statistics, nothing else. And it's not true that it can't function more rationally, and it's necessary that so many agencies we have unnecessary, and yet no one has expressed the need for the Public Debt Management Agency or any other institute. So we have the Commission on fiscal policy, we don't have a public debt management commission. And the most important thing, the uncontrollable thing, just the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do. That our records aren't right, either. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93697	The final minutes of this debate belong to the Minister of Finance, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for today's correct debate, and I can say that today I think that this is an honest essence of three key, I would like to underline them, three key areas in which we should definitely make major changes in 2015. These are investments without which it will definitely not be possible to achieve this economic growth that we said is 0.5% and better public business activity in financing a number of projects that we are committed not only to EU projects and EU programmes but precisely in programmes that we think should be already feasible and that they have to be achieved. Also, as Mr Schucker spoke, deep structural reforms that need to be resolved in the area of health certainly remain the area of the pension system. And this finally, as counterpart Maric spoke about the rationality of management of each expenditure and certainly very interesting in the final opinion of the Public Debt Management Committee. I think that's an extraordinary one, we should work on taking a step forward and certainly include in that other institutions what you've been saying to the CNB. So I think we're thinking in that part and we're going to make some suggestions. I thank you once again, I think that there has been a very correct debate regardless of the different attitudes and interpretations but these three key messages that I would like to take out of today's debate are investments in this part of structural reform and certainly more significant cost rationalisation. I hope that we should also open at detailed levels through a number of other laws to implement them and then probably the budget for next year should look different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93699	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93700	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you recognized the need for a better, more alternative way of managing public debt. Public finances are not stable. It can't lead to this kind of instability. Then it's inverse. We have stable to God's public finances, and everything is unstable in the state, uncontrollably everything. That's not true. Unfortunately, I have to say that it reminds me of their stability as the stability of a society returning from Martin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93701	Replication response, Minister Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That a respected fellow MP when you have a stable economy, a stable real sector, when you have investments, then you certainly have stable public finances. So, one without the other definitely can't do some sort of... thing that happens in different parts... everything reflects in public finances. So there are certainly a number of other preconditions for the stability of public finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93703	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the budget when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93704	Proposal for a State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, with a proposal for a projection for 2016 and 2017 1.2. Proposals for financial plans of extra budget users for 2015, with a projection proposal for 2016 and 2017 for: (a) Croatian Waters, (a) Croatian Roads, (a) Centre for Restructuring and Sales, (a) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, (a) The State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks and (a) The Croatian Institute for Health Insurance The debate on the text The proposal for a State Budget has been completed. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on this proposal. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93705	You spoke in your explanation of the plural, and the government's proposal came together. And if you as chairman say that we are discussing something that is in unity, then I would ask the debate given that the amendment, not the amendments of the Government, have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Budget Law. So I'm asking you nicely to state whether it's an amendment or an amendment because it's technically only an amendment, not an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93706	I'm not an expert in technique, but I'm the one who's been writing amendments. Now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93707	I have an amendment to the draft state budget, which is very important, Mr. President, because the amendment has not been submitted in accordance with neither the law nor the rules of procedure, and therefore I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the HDZ Club. Now I don't know if the minister can accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93708	I don't doubt it. The government nominated as an amendment you have the right, but with me in the text itinerary of running the session writes amendments, okay, the amendment the government has normized. ... Yes, you can. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93709	This is how Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since this is about three to put it that way, there were supposed to be three amendments. The first amendment is where the position is changed in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Budget Law. Since the first amendment should regulate the area where the positions of the Ministry of Finance are changed and, accordingly, funds are removed from the State Property Management Office and I think from some ministry. Just a little bit, please. The second amendment should go for those redistributions to the Ministry of Regional Development, and the third amendment should go for an increase in funds to the Ombudsman. My colleagues and colleagues, there's no need for anxiety, these are the acts that we brought here and on a well-intentioned proposal to avoid bringing the most important document against the law let's try to find a solution to get out of this together because tomorrow someone malicious can file a lawsuit on this and make sure it falls. Then what about the budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93710	Thank you, well-respected representative, for your well-meaning and time-saving, because you could have asked for a break, so you'd better say this, and we'll also vote as suggested. So we're refusing to comment. Thank you very much. Let's go to the amendment, please. No. Now he can ask for a break now he's gone, so we're not going to pollemize. On the basis of Article 196 of the basic Regulation, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Government as a Proposer shall submit the following amendment. Please, who will explain the amendment? And we didn't vote, I'm sorry. Please let us know who it is for me to apologize. The vote is over, please result. Most of the votes we agreed to discuss and decide on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 84 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention, and how much was it against? Go back. Please, we'll repeat the vote okay. The vote is over, please result. Most of the vote 82 votes in favour, 1 abstention, and 21 votes against, we have accepted that we are discussing and deciding on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Prime Minister's representative, Boris Lalovec, to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93711	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is an amendment in front of you where within the financial plan of the Ministry of Finance, the amount of 37 million 572 thousand 646 kuna is redistributed from the position of building border crossings to the activities of the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government. This amendment respects the parliamentary debate and returns a certain part of the ongoing aid for local self-government units that have been implementing and ongoing assistance in 2014, and these funds for border crossings will be implemented through the position of EU funds. The second part also refers to an increase of 12 million 630 thousand 449 kuna that has been redistributed from the State Office for State Property Management worth 8.5 million kuna and from the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds by 4 million 136 thousand 449 kuna, also increases transitional aid for local, regional (regional) self-government units that lose the status of the assisted area. That's what we were talking about today. So from 65% to 70%, it means 5% for the third group and this part from 40 to 45. Thus, both proposals relate to an increase in the amount of local and regional (regional) self-government units. Certain positions are also proposed within the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports' financial plan, a redistribution of 882 thousand 722 kuna for national minority education programmes. That part is within the position of the Ministry of Science. Also, the Public Prosecutor's Office is increasing from one million kuna to complete the establishment and maintenance of a network of regional offices. That amount is redistributed from the State Office for State Property Management where the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Liaison is also concerned with the technical nature of the redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93712	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93713	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If one of you legislators had submitted such an amendment today, we would not have had the opportunity to declare the amendment because you would have been told that it had not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. But what some can do, some can't, but it has unfortunately become a practice in this House that what the government orders must be done. What is proposed by this amendment? This amendment proposes to try to correct something that cannot be corrected. So these are areas with special state concerns and areas from mountainous and mountainous areas. And look, it's very interesting that according to the amendments to the law, the position which last year helped units from these areas was based on income censorship amounted to about 349 million. The return on income tax was somewhere around 400 million and the return on profits was about 70 million. So it's all about 800 and something else million. If you look at this new position that is now subliming and it's all gathering it increases by 50 million and is 598 million or still 230 million less than it was last year. What has changed in the poorest units of local (regional) self - government to take away 260 million? Nothing. However, even more devastating, colleagues and colleagues, see what amount is planned for the same position in 2016 to be reduced from 598 to 517. So somebody tell me what economic activity this increased employment will bring to these local self-government units next year 80 million. It's just not there. So this is an attempt to regulate some voices that didn't want to support the budget, so with this they want some things... Because this is the topic that we've been intensively discussing in this House of Commons for the last 10 days, and there's been a million and one argument that things change but they didn't want to change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is therefore very interesting, because colleagues and colleagues when you look at the Government's amendment are then taken along with what is taken by the Ministry of Finance and for a very important activity, which is building border crossings and customs 37 million, still taking 13 million and 630 thousand kuna to the State Property Management Office and Ministry. But those 12, 13 million are not going to this position we're talking about right now, but this position is only going to 12 million and 630 thousand kuna. And it's just confirmation that this was supposed to be a special amendment. However, some things had to be covered up, and then, given that in the Assembly very rarely or almost never debated the amendments of the Government because no one is paying attention to it, it is very interesting that one redistribution within one ministry, in fact within two ministries can go under the same amendment that should have been made according to our Rules of Procedure, where it is said that one position would be increased from another you must take off. However, in this amendment, which is pushed under 1st, you also have a redistribution within the two ministries. So in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, it is proposed to reduce the assistance given abroad. My colleagues and colleagues are helping local self-government units again. Because the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure only provides assistance to local self-government units. So they shrink by 40 million kuna and increase, what we parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public especially... 40 million means from 71 to 111 million are increasing other expenditures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what doesn't have an address, I would beg you, Mr. President, I may be boring to some but Good when they hear good. [[The President's intrusion: They hear well.]] Okay. So the other expenditures are increasing, so much for the transparency of the budget. However, very interesting are the redistributions in the Ministry that constantly cobbles with money and that are constantly insufficient for basic activities, which is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And when you pull one thick arrow towards the amendments given by the SDP Club, then you'll understand why it was done. Remember the amendment to the State budget rebalancing proposal, you come back to the same because it is illogical that 3 or 4 million kunas are changed by amendments when this problem appears to be a problem over the year, in accordance with the Budget Act, can be settled from the current reserve. Because the current reserve says it can be used for under-planned funds. Therefore, it was not necessary to go with the amendment. If you're going with the amendment, you're only going to get your hands in the air. That's a fact. And that is why this amendment goes in the package, and it does not go in the way provided for by the Budget Law and as provided for by our Rules of Procedure, that each item that changes redistribution must be explained by a special amendment. So colleagues and colleagues, I don't think this is simply good that the Croatian Parliament works this way and that the most important document is brought in this way. So I'm not going to use the word for these hands in the air, but it's obvious that they cost several million kunas. It is clear that they did not calculate the aid criteria for units with PPDS and mountain-mounted areas and islands because if they were to clearly calculate the criteria then they would not intervene with these 50 million, but the question is what will those local self-government units be doing next year, in fact 2016 without these 50 million, even less 40 million kuna. A total centralisation and vacuuming of the income of local self-government units into the state budget has definitely taken effect in order to make it easier to command and share money. Therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, it is still a well-intentioned proposal from the HDZ Club that the finance minister reshapes this amendment in the way that it is prescribed by our acts and that we do not bring a document that is contrary to the positive legislation in the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, the HDZ Club can neither support these amendments nor those air handles that are related to these amendments, especially the budget that is simply irreparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93714	Thank you very much. No more interested in the debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 1 vote abstention and 22 votes against, have been added to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the State Budget and has become an integral part of the final draft of the Republic of Croatia's budget. We're going over the amendment table as we say. We're going to Amendment number one of the SDP Representatives Clubs. Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93715	Thank you very much. The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93716	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 of National Minority Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93717	It was consummated through Amendment No. 1, so the government does not accept it because it was consumed through Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93718	Okay. Representative of the National Minority Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93719	Since the essence of our amendment has already been accepted in Amendment No. 1 we withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93720	Thank you very much. Retracted. A SDP representative club, Amendment number 3 of the respected finance ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93721	The government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93722	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number four of the respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93723	The government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93724	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 5, MP Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93725	The government does not accept it for the reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation lays down a way of calculating aid and countervailing for decentralised functions and, therefore, the amount could not be reduced in that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93726	Amendment holder, respected representative Dragan Montenegroc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93727	Thank you. It is clear to me that when the Government does not accept the amendment that it is almost impossible for it to pass and receive support in the Parliament, but for this reason I have brought here an agreement which you probably have never seen, an international agreement where the Government has committed itself to existence, so the joint council of municipalities and the smooth work. Among other things, the government has made a decision on the organisation, on the status, composition, jurisdiction and funding, so much so that it will finance the smooth work of this Serbian community institution and it is quite clear that the funds set in the budget so far have not been sufficient, and since, explicitly, we remain in surprise, the joint council of municipalities cannot compete with other funds from the budget, let's say through a national foundation which explicitly states the name of an external institution, it is clear that the Serbian institution, or the Serbian community institution, does not have enough resources to work. However, I am not surprised by this decision since the government has not appointed, and given the obligations it has, even the ministerial assistants are here at the end of the third year of the government's term, so this decision has not surprised us at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93728	Are you withdrawing or requesting a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93729	Since I consider this matter to be one of the essential possibilities of working, uninterrupted work, minority organisations and minority rights, I don't think anywhere in the civilized world is a vote on minority rights but human rights, so I'm going to say you're free of these obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93730	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Amendment number 6 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93731	The government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93732	It became an integral part of the final draft budget. Amendment number 7 of the SDP Representatives Club as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93733	The government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93734	Thank you very much. It became an integral part of the final draft budget. We're going to Amendment number 8, Agent Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93735	Thank you very much. It became an integral part of the final draft budget. We're going to Amendment number 8, Agent Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93736	Dear applicant for the amendment, MP Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93737	I'm sorry it's not accepted, given that it's a capital donation to complete the space. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93738	I'm sorry, you haven't heard, counselor. The amendment was consummated by a five-way amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93739	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93740	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number 9 of MP Ante Babic, the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93741	The government doesn't accept it. The financial plan of the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia has been steadily increasing since it was established and the level of the financial plan for 2015 has been established based on realistic assessments of the needs of the offices which also defines their own priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93742	An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Ante Babic. Please be patient so we can work fast. Keep it down!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93743	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I remember very well, Mr. Minister Thursday, and then when you were bartering budget rebalances and you said there wouldn't be an increase for 2015. I'm extremely glad that you found funds for national minorities and that's quite a number of funds. But you will admit in this position of the programme to help the Croatian minority abroad this item remains at 1.5 million kuna. For 550,000 representatives of Croatian minorities in 12 countries a million and a half kuna. If you share it, it is about 2 kunas and 70 per Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. In this situation where individual minorities are located in certain countries with which we have and interstate agreements, I find it incomprehensible and unacceptable that you have not increased this item, although you are talking about a continuous increase in funds related to the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, you may have thought about this regarding the building for employees. But it certainly is not an increase for Croatian and Croatian minority programmes abroad. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93744	Please vote on amendment number 9 of Honored Representative Ante Babic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment 10. Also respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93745	Well, the government doesn't accept it. That office has the means to provide security. Even this year's execution is less than planned with the priorities of the office itself, so if the office determines that these priorities are to him he can also provide.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93746	An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93747	Yesterday, the prime minister tours Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly in Sarajevo, said the government will not save on projects that are really important for the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, alluding to the constitutional commitment of the Republic of Croatia to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are one of three constituent nations. Croatia's strategic goal is also to help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no one should doubt that, and at least the government. What you just said was that for the budget to be carried out was a lack of resources that actually speaks about the work of this government and the lack of projects. But reducing funds to return Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina from 9 to 6 million kuna is unacceptable. Here's the vote I'm asking for on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93748	Please vote on amendment number 10 of Honored Representative Ante Babic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I'm determining he didn't get the required majority of this amendment. Amendment number 11. Also respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93749	The government doesn't accept it. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93750	Same as before, the obvious as likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93751	Well... A special item concerning this amendment to the return of Croats to the Republic of Serbia, knowing, given the fact in the 1990s, that up to today some 30 to 35,000 Croats have moved out of Vojvodina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially regret that the government did not notice, or discuss this proposal regarding the exit of Seselj from The Hague prison, and knowing the situation of the Croatian national minority in Serbia is now what we can read and testify about these days. I believed that the government would hear about it and would provide at least one part of the funds for the return of Croats to the Republic of Serbia knowing after the Homeland War how much effort we actually made in the Republic of Croatia in order to restore homes for refugee programmes. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93752	Please vote on amendment number 11 of Honored Representative Ante Babic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. The amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number 12. SDS representative club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93753	The government doesn't accept it. The implementation of the activities of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is below certain and planned activities and we believe that the funds will be sufficient for the year 2015 in the amount planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93754	An indication of the applicant for the amendment on behalf of the club, the respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93755	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, execution is less simple because there was no assumption that the state's office was doing its jobs. You yourself know the history of reducing the budgets of the state office, how slow the process of forming the office was, and how long it took to begin the work of the office at all, and it started a few months ago. Now he needs to be punished for it. We're pleased that at least this time you haven't reduced, but you're adding the restoration of flooded areas. If the restoration of flooded areas is added to the reconstruction of objects that were killed in the war and at the same time the housing programme is afraid to be a problem, some of it will suffer. And for this reason, we propose to the government to find a solution to this conflict between the two programmes under which the Government is required. Because the state office won't be able to handle it with this amount of funds. And we asked to increase funds for flooded areas. But if the government doesn't have those options right now, we're withdrawing that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93756	Thank you very much, the amendment has been withdrawn. Let's go to Amendment No. 13, Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. On behalf of Proposer Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93757	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Do you need an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93758	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93759	The resources provided to support the equipment of voluntary fire companies are within the framework of the appropriations under Chapter 04030 of the RKP 28305 of the State Protection and Rescue Administration. Project K 260089 is a programme implementing specific fire protection measures, thus forwarding all requirements related to the necessary fire department equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93760	The applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Boro Grubisic, is an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93761	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, K 554010 stands in support of the equipment of voluntary fire companies. So, exactly what I've been writing about in the amendment, and that's the acquisition of a frontal vehicle for the DVD Ship's Stupnik, not far from Slavonski Brod, which now does not have a frontal vehicle. I don't even know how firemen work or intervene, I guess they ride the bike, like a colleague says for an intervention. In addition, this fire department goes to the sea to assist fire companies during the summer season. And one more thing to say, in this, it supports the equipment of voluntary fire companies in position 382 is therefore aiding fire companies in the height of 1000 kuna. So now you tell me when you've already explained your amendment to what you with 1,000 kunas are thinking of helping voluntary fire departments in that position? Or maybe you'd better shut it down at all. Or that maybe you planned when you were getting the vehicles, this government for the 1600 vehicles government to get and what kind of fire trucks other than those so I won't tell you what brands it is for the government very luxurious, that they have also bought which fire trucks for voluntary fire companies in Croatia, especially in Slavonia and Baranja. That's not gonna happen! Sad and embarrassing! Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93762	Please vote on Amendment No. 13 respected representatives of Bora Grubisic, whom the government did not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find he did not get the required majority of amendments no. 13. Amendment No. 14, MPs Salapić, Grubisic, Drmic, Buric, Bubalo, Đurović and Češek so the whole club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93763	The government doesn't accept the amendment. As part of the A672007 demining activity, it is ensured... million kunas for demining activities in accordance with the action plan and demining is carried out according to that set schedule in accordance with the allocations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93764	Joseph Salapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93765	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, in view of 39 fatalities, 121 persons with severe bodily injuries and 60 persons with minor bodily injuries from the area of Osijek-Baranja County, and given that more than 90 km is still a mined area, we believe it has something to do with the development of the economy, and what is worst with human destiny, human lives, and we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93766	Please approach the vote. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Moving to Amendment No. 15, representative of Josip Djakic. Deputy Secretary of Defense Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93767	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Apprenticed representatives and honourable MPs of Amendment No. 15 respected representative Josip Djakic is not accepted with reasons at the position of Croatian defenders' employment, funds are provided in the Defence Ministry's 2015 Finance Plan in line with the new programme adopted for a 4-year period and the introduction of new measures stressing increases in EU funds. Since these measures do not require additional funds of 500 thousand kuna, the programme will be able to be implemented with the intended amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93768	Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93769	Thank you very much, ma'am. So the failure to accept this amendment clearly states that the funds planned for the recruitment of Croatian defenders will not be sufficient and will not be withdrawn from European funds, nor will it be the employment of Croatian defenders who will be concerned and concerned by the government or the ministry. It is also a lie that an increase in the budget for the needs of Croatian defenders when 38.6 million kunas were reduced in two rebalances in the defence positions because they were not used. They are not used because incompetence and carelessness has increased from 26,000 unemployed Croatian defenders to 36,000. For 10,000 there are more unemployed Croatian defenders. You could invest these funds in cooperatives, co-financing cooperatives and such a way of hiring Croatian defenders. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93770	Let's approach the vote. The result? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment No. 16 representatives of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93771	Amendment No. The 16th Honorable Representative Josip Djakic is not accepted with reasons at the position of the Association of Defences, funds are provided in accordance with the Defence Ministry's financial plan, taking into account the number of projects of associations that have been assessed as high quality and enforceable by the Commission so far, and thus co-financed, we assess the estimated amount of sufficient, and no additional amount of one million kuna is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93772	Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93773	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, the continued reduction of funds for the needs of the Homeland War Association is your practice in the ministry. The licensing of projects with certain amounts also shows the relationship and concern of the rights of Croatian defenders through their activities and through their associations. Only HVIDRA RH has reduced 2 million and 200 thousand kuna over the past two years. I think you're talking about something that's really not true and it's not possible to function and even basic things to finance in associations, which is a cool drive with such miserable means that you're predicting. You are unable to deploy or do what is necessary for associations or for any agreement with them and therefore the continued relationship of your ministry, you as a deputy and minister is one that is contrary to the interests and needs of Croatian defenders. And therefore I demand a vote on this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93774	Let's join the vote on the amendment. I'm asking for a result. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of 17 representatives of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93775	Amendment 17 to the Honorable Representative Josip Djakic is not accepted with reason, at the position of exhumation, identification and burial of victims from the Homeland War, sufficient resources have been provided for the implementation of all activities of the programme in captivity and missing planned in the strategic plan of the Ministry of Defence for the period 2015-2017. It is also part of the projects of the Administration for Detained and Missing amounting to 3 million 812 thousand and 500 kuna that are planned to co-finance from EU funds under the operational programme of effective human potentials in 2014-2020. In line with the above, we do not consider it necessary to increase the funds in this position.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93776	Josip Djakic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93777	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here it is visible through this particularly human activity that the Croatian Defence Ministry has to do, given that another thousand Croatian defenders are unidentified, their bodies are unaccounted for, and also 600 of those who were members of Serbian troops and civilians, 1600 people who are still wanted in the Republic of Croatia require and need the funds, and I am sure that this amendment that reduces the funds in the legislation office, the harmonisation of legal acts with the legal order of the Republic of Croatia will not damage them because the legal acts are mostly harmonised and do not need these 500 thousand kunas, and for the purposes of exhumation, identification and funeral, I am sure that they need to bring the human activity to an end as soon as possible so that all victims with dignity are buried, found and for families to be calm once. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93778	I ask that we vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 18 of Representatives Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93779	Amendment 18 of the Honorable Representative Josip Djakic is not accepted with reason, at the position of the resident care of people with disabilities from the Homeland War, sufficient resources are provided for the implementation of all activities and programmes. The housing of persons with disabilities from the Homeland War is carried out in accordance with the Regulation on the housing of members of the family of the mortally injured, captured or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War and volunteers from the Homeland War. This Regulation provides for the allocation of housing loans, the allocation of financial support for the purchase or construction of first real estate on the market, the allocation of interest on loans in commercial banks to the level of market interest for purchase, or the construction of the first real estate of public housing owned by the Republic of Croatia, as well as the award and purchase of an apartment or house. This appropriation is intended to cover: Funds for other purposes such as energy, services, current investment maintenance, municipal services and the like shall be provided at the source of the 11th general income and receipts and shall be sufficient to finance those services. In line with the above, we believe that the increase in funds in this position is not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93780	My colleague Josip Djakić will be with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93781	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, these four amendments clearly show the concern and concern of the Croatian Defence Ministry as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia according to Croatian defenders. You have clearly shown that you have increased the budget only for the Ministry of Defence while the real truth is that in this year 2015, the estimated budget is 7.9 million kuna. It's not a significant asset, but when we add up all the unemployed, how many people are on the housing list from 11 300 to 13600 people waiting for housing, at this rate for the next 50 years, all the disabled will die and will not be taken care of by your budget projections. Your incompetence is really already insolence and insolence towards the Croatian defenders, and yet what is most regrettable is to deceive through the budget in 2 years, through the budget in 2 years you have reduced the total funds by 88 million and 595 thousand kuna. It is a shame that happens in this Croatian government and the Ministry of Croatian Defence. By extending the right to provide housing, you have falsely promised volunteers that you will provide them with housing and none of this will happen because the funds provided for in the budget clearly speak about these four positions or housing, neither exhumation, nor employment, nor the association will have sufficient resources. This is what the Croatian defender hurts for and what they protest for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93782	You want a vote? ... Please join the vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Score. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move to Amendment number 19 of the representative of Jadranka Kosor. I'd like Deputy Minister Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93783	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, the amendment is not accepted with the following explanation. The amount of HRK 55 million planned in the budget of the Ministry of Finance for the support of political parties has been determined in accordance with Article 3. The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion according to which funds for the regular annual financing of political parties and independent representatives should be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia at the amount of 0,05% of the expenditure incurred in the previous annual report on the implementation of the budget. For this reason, the funds planned to support political parties cannot be reduced without amending that law. Investment funds should be increased at all, but we stress that this proposal for the 2015 budget in the division of 0.51, the Ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts, except for the activities of A822055, the implementation of measures to encourage investment of small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen is a planned resource and other activities aimed at fostering investment and competitiveness of entrepreneurship and crafts, and the total amount of these funds including EU funds is significantly higher than ever planned, amounting to 892 million 653 000 283 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93784	A colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93785	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your honor, Deputy, you're on the other side of the line. So, first of all, I asked to increase the funds to encourage the investments of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that we all swear on. In 2014, these funds were planned to amount to 30 million kuna. For next year, you're proposing a 10 million kuna reduction to 20 million kuna. But what's interesting about the 2016 projections and next year's reduction to only 5 million kuna. So we're all talking about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen who need to be developmentists, and then the government's means of incentive is reducing from year to year. However, you propose to increase the funding of political parties that were planned in this year in the amount of 50 million 161 thousand 666 kuna by 5 million kuna in the following year, but very interestingly, in 2016 to 61 million 752 000 941, so each year from now you propose an increase and a significant but financing of political parties. Your argument that it's impossible to do it without changing the law, so of course we know that. We could have changed that law. So, I suggest that these 5 million kunas, just 5 million kunas as planned to increase political parties next year, be transferred to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93786	Please join the vote. I'm asking for a result. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move to Amendment 20 of the SDP Representatives Club and ask Minister Andrej Zlatar Violić. Amendment 20 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93787	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93788	Amendment number 21 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93789	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93790	Thank you very much. We move on to amendment of 22 MPs Salapic, Grubisic, Drmic, Buric, Bubal, Djurovic and Chesek. I'd like a Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Snow White.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93791	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept Amendment 22 for the reasons that the funds provided are sufficient for the functioning of the Croatian Horseman's Center... Djakovo and Lipik with their own incomes they make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93792	Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93793	Thank you very much. Our mayor Đakova will be very happy with this decision not to accept the amendment, and otherwise by the Government of the Republic of Croatia the conditions of business of both ergels have changed, both Lipik and Đakovo as visible over the last year. Also in order to fully operate the closed rider of Lipicanaca Đakovo, but also to implement the separation of two ergels, which was already a word when the government of HDZ and Jadranka Kosor, so there was a debate here and there was a separation, but in order to fully implement this, it is necessary to increase the budgetary position as proposed. So, from 8 million to 20 million. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93794	Please join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. Turn yourself on for a vote you're not. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 23 of the same representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93795	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept Amendment 23 for the reason that the project under consideration is carried out by the Agency for the Development of Osijek-Baranja County and coordinates activities on the preparation of study documentation in the course of environmental impact studies, which should be carried out in the next period, and after the adoption of the same and the adoption of a solution on the acceptability of environmental procedures, it will be possible to access the development of an idea project and the implementation of the work of the investigation. Planned activities in 2015 are estimated at 494 thousand 900 kuna. In accordance with the current co-financing agreement on the development of an expert review of the eligibility and feasibility of the multi-purpose hydrotechnical system for water and land management Osijek and the development of studies on the impact of the multi-purpose hydrotechnical system for water and land management Osijek. This ministry, together with HEP, participates in co-financing of that project of 10% and 37.5%, respectively, and Osijek-Baranja County with 15% of the total. The necessary resources are therefore provided for in the 2015 budget for the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93796	Who's going to explain? Joseph Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93797	Thank you, Vice President. Since the value of the 3 billion kuna project is these planned 495 thousand and regardless of the reason that it is an environmental study, we believe that there was any provision in the budget for the strategic importance of this project, but because of some estimates that it could get a job around a thousand people. Given the economic situation in Slavonia and Baranja and today's area of the Regional Development Act we are trying to help, we believe that the responsible Government should have provided more resources in the 2015 budget given the importance of the project, so I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93798	Please vote on the amendment. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving to amendment 24 of Natalija Martinecevic, and I call on Deputy Minister of Regional Development Jaksu Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93799	Honorable vice presidents, distinguished MPs and MPs. The government does not accept MP Martincevic's amendment. Namely, that position through the division of 061 of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds is financed by the EU Project Co-financing Fund from the source of funding of 43 other revenue for specific purposes. As regards the position through division 049 of the economy ministry as 869003 financing and storage and management of mandatory oil and oil supplies, it is financed from general incomes and receipts. Furthermore, the 3908 programme for the protection of cultural goods in the division of 055 of the Ministry of Culture is also financed from general incomes and receipts, as well as funds for participation in EU assistance and funds. As regards position A 779000 administrations and management of national parks and nature parks, one smaller amount is planned on general incomes and receipts, while most of the funds are planned on their own resources. In view of all of these sources, it is not possible to redistribute those resources in the proposed way, given the different sources of revenue, that those sources can plan for users who make their own revenues on the market and according to specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93800	She's a colleague of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93801	Here is the Law on the establishment of the EU Co-financing Fund for the project, and I am sorry that we failed to discuss it this year. In fact, as we know in the EU, Croatia has paid 3 billion kunas, and I think it speaks enough in favour of the fact that we have to do something. This fund wants to allow units of local self-government to stand behind each project, so counties, cities and municipalities approved by the EU. Given the economic policy led by this government, I think our only development chance is to get funds from EU funds and see how much we have failed this year. Today, too, there have been enough words about how much we have centralised ourselves, how much further we have taken from our counties, cities and municipalities, so I suggest that we give them a larger amount of funds in this fund so that they can secure EU funds on their own. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93802	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to amendment of 25 deputies Salapic, Grubisic, Drmic, Buric, Bubal, Djurovic and Chesek. I would like to ask Zdenko Antesic, Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93803	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted by the Government with the following explanation. Investment in the construction of Corridor 5C of the A5 border highway with the Republic of Hungary-Beli Manastir-Osjek is a systematic part of the public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2013-2016 as part of the planning of highway construction in the jurisdiction of Croatian highways. The proposal for a construction and maintenance plan for the Croatian highways for 2015 envisioned investment in the 5C corridor of the borders of the Republic of Hungary-border BiH is a total of 292 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93804	Who's going to explain? Joseph Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93805	Thank you, Vice President. Oh, God, that's right. Last year we spoke similarly not exactly in the planned funds given the strategic importance of this project not only for the Osijek-Baranja County but also for the Republic of Croatia and since this project has been assessed by the World Bank as one of the most important infrastructure investments in the Republic of Croatia, we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93806	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 26 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93807	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. In the Financial Plan Croatian Road for 2015 under the position of K2004. The planned amount is €53 million for the Virovitica-Suhopolje stock.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93808	Igor Češek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93809	I thank the esteemed vice president. So as a priority road, the fast road Varazdin-Koprivnica-Virovica-Osjek-Ilock total length is about 330 km. It is a very high-quality project of direct economic significance which should be an alternative to the current state road D2 known as the Podravska highway. The same fast road will connect the sub-level Danube part of northern Croatia and is particularly important for the area of Slatina because two state roads intersect there, where up to 8,000 vehicles are frequented on the day of the traffic accident. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93810	We are voting on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 27 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93811	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted with reasons. According to the Water Act, the coastal authorities are according to the purpose of the regulatory and water protection facilities that are used to protect against the harmful effects of water. The following construction and maintenance of coastal forts is not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure but of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93812	Who's going to explain? Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93813	It turns out to be a lack of ID, but that's not the case. It is true that low water levels have been recorded in the Drava, and to whom it fails, it is difficult to say. So low water stops that make sailing impossible on the Drava River. And we know that the river of Drava and Danube and Sava is a river of water. That there is an port Osijek which is also included in the river port Osijek. That there is therefore also a weekend settlement which has been flooded this year twice and that it is necessary to actually regulate so to build the coastal forts. And the coast is not the only function of flood protection but has a number of other coastal functions. Therefore, this way to get away as you suggested, Mr. Antesic is not very well. I therefore request a vote for these 6 million kunas requested by this amendment to build coastal forts on the Drava from the mouth of Danube to Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93814	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 28 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93815	Thank you very much. The amendment is also not accepted with the same explanation as Amendment No. 27. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93816	Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93817	Thank you very much. Mr. Antesic only if the opposition were complete, so in the total number here we would vote this one, so this corn coalition which today is also not in full composition. But unfortunately it's not, so here's how you reject this 20 million kuna amendment to build a coastal fort on the Danube. And we know that the Danube is flowing and that we are involved in an anthem in the length of 138km through the Republic of Croatia and that we have problems as well as on all rivers where... The crusts of neither Sava nor Drava nor Danube due to the war's actions and postwar inactivitys on that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would really take these 20 million kunas, but here you are saying that you don't give, the opposition won't revote the Kukurik coalition and I'm asking, regardless of the number of votes on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93818	We're voting on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of 29th Representative Josip Djakic. I call upon the Deputy Minister of Construction and the spatial arrangement of Mr. Zeljko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93819	The proposed amendment is not accepted. Because simply redistributing from these items would put the agency's business at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93820	The representative is not present in the hall, so I ask that we vote on the amendment. I'm asking for a result. Get involved that you didn't get involved in the vote. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Moving to Amendment No. The 30th representative of Natalija Martincevic. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Nature of Hrvoje Dokoza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93821	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. For the activities of waste management in bales in Varazdin, no funds shall be provided in the budget of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection but shall be financed from the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund if and when all legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93822	Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93823	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. 120 000 tons of garbage at the entrance to Varazdin are the biggest environmental and health and financial problem and the city of Varazdin and the Varazdin County which, as you know, has not been solved for more than 7 years. In the 11th month of last year, however, the foundations of inspection supervision took responsibility for resolving the problem, and nothing happened afterwards. I ask that in this budget, you can, of course, solve it with the fund, secure the funds of... since as far as the Department of Environmental and Nature Regulation provides, and that this problem of the Varazdin waste finally solves itself. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93824	Please, let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. I now call on Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr. Roko Andricevic to explain amendment number 31 of Vice-President Zeljko Reiner's deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93825	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The amendment of the distinguished academic representative Željko Reinera number 31 is not accepted for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of 02006 of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and the topic is covered in the text of the curricular reform that is in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93826	Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93827	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. In fact, we brought a strategy of education, science and technology here just over a month ago, with great Taliban. At that time, we said that for the implementation of this strategy, about a billion kunas a year are necessary over the next few years, which, of course, no one took note of because, of course, it was neither the goal nor the goal of actually implementing this strategy, but to produce a document that could be waved, to praise that it was adopted for the first time in the history of strategies, which was obviously not intended to be implemented. That it is so clear because 335 measures are mentioned in this strategy. These amendments concern only 77 of them which may be most important or most urgent, while in the previous version of the strategy, not the one which was finally accepted, it was stated that these measures would take place in 2015. 79 June 2016 57, 2017. 40, so a total of 176 measures plus 17 that were to be continuously implemented, so 193 measures. As can be seen from this proposal of all these amendments, we are actually referring to only 77 of these measures and financially exclusively with symbolic sums, only with symbolic sums, trying to actually give meaning to this strategy which is clearly completely ignored by the Government. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93828	Please, let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 32 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93829	Thank you. Amendment No 32 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment and also whose theme is covered by the curricular reform contained in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93830	Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93831	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, it's simply not true that it's covered, and that's why we've been looking for additional points along with all these amendments. In fact, you'll probably be "extracting" that it's all covered somewhere else, and you and I know it's not true, especially because there are separate items in this budget for some strategies. I am free to say, for example, the Strategy for the Development of Women's Entrepreneurship on page 114 has a specific item. The strategy against poverty and social exclusion on page 25 has a specific item. So if he responds, and apparently the government's answers will be that all of what I propose are special additional items so that the strategy at least in indications is an attempt to implement the budget. If the answers are all as they are likely to be, which is that somewhere else I must say very clearly that is not true. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93832	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm asking for a result. Get involved who didn't get involved in the vote. We don't have results until we have a quorum. Get on with who didn't get involved. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 33 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93833	Amendment No 33 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of 02006 Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93834	Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93835	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I expected at least a little more imaginative answers, and the answer that you can't take the Prime Minister's office is just fascinating. So we will not implement the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology because little money can be taken from the Prime Minister's office. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93836	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Please! The amendment didn't get the required majority. And I ask the representatives to enter the hall outside the hall. Amendment 34 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93837	Amendment number 34. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons that further reduction of activity is not possible for users of zero, zero, zero, six Offices of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93838	Zeljko Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93839	Thank you very much. Obviously we're going to the absurd and exhausting, because the explanation that you can't take the Prime Minister's office is just ridiculous. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93840	Let's approach the vote. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 35 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93841	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept Amendment No 35 for the reason that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93842	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93843	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, of course, I can't make such a funny argument in any way or make them sad or laugh. But what I want to point out. All these amendments together are heavy somewhere around 68 million kuna. So, not a billion kunas as we said we should, and they're just heavy enough to just symbolically make it known that we want to implement this strategy. Obviously, the government doesn't want to implement the strategy, it doesn't want to implement it at all, and it's sad. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93844	Please join the vote. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 36 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93845	Amendment number 36. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons that additional reduction in activity is not possible for users of zero one-five zeros of the Offices of the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93846	Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93847	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, of course, we can't take down a prime minister for God or lip, and especially not for such pointless things as education, science and technology. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93848	Let's join the vote on the amendment. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 37 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93849	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept Amendment 37 for reasons that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93850	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93851	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think it is important that the Croatian public hears again and again every time, therefore, the strategy of education, science and technology that has been announced in the media, announced as we remember the strategy of the strategy, the most fantastic achievement in I don't know the history of Croatian education and science, etc. He doesn't want to finance himself now because he can't even take the Prime Minister's Office. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93852	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 38 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93853	Amendment number 38. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93854	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93855	Thank you very much. This time, as you can see, you must not take the President's office to repeat the implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. It's much more important that she's not having fun and that we have all those bust employees in the President's office. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93856	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 39 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93857	Amendment number 39. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93858	Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93859	Thank you very much. I stress again, so the Education, Science and Technology Strategy will not be implemented because neither the President's Office is to be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93860	Are you asking for a vote? Shall we vote on an amendment that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 40 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93861	Amendment number 40. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93862	Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93863	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So just one more piece of evidence that the Education, Science and Technology Strategy was one public deception, as well as parliamentary representatives. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93864	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 41st Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93865	Amendment number 41. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93866	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93867	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. What is sad and what is happening so routinely now is not only that, of course, everything is said and claimed to be implemented by this strategy, but that we only know what is now being voted on. So now we will not finance the education of teachers, teachers, directors and professional associates, etc. etc. So we claimed, among other things, that we wanted more educated teachers, teachers, directors. Let's remember all the beautiful words that were said here. Now we say we don't need it all together. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93868	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. The 42nd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93869	The amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93870	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93871	Thank you very much. There's only so much that we all know what we're talking about because obviously no one, especially of the ruling, cares. Therefore, we do not want to ensure infrastructure and material conditions and to ensure conditions for further employment or redistribution of teachers, teachers and other educational staff. The proposal was to make a miserable sum of 500 thousand kuna, but it must not be taken by the President's office. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93872	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 43 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93873	Amendment No. 43 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93874	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93875	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I only hope that after these frequent ups and sittings, at least someone on the other side of the assembly will think about how they're gonna raise their hand. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93876	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 44 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93877	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93878	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93879	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. And yet just so I can remind you of what we're talking about. It is about organising a system of additional individual counselling of students with difficulties and their parents with a logo, social pedagogue, educational rehabilitator. You don't want that. You want to give that money to the President's office. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93880	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 45 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93881	Amendment 45. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic. At the same time, in accordance with existing legal regulations, funds for human, financial and spatial resources for a half-day stay during which extended professional procedures are carried out shall be ensured in the budgets of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93882	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93883	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank God I finally got at least one answer, he's not exactly right, but at least it sounds a little too much. However, this High House has committed itself by adopting a strategy to also finance the provision of human, financial and spatial resources for a half-day stay during which an extended professional procedure is conducted in the education, science and technology strategy. So it's true that it's partly financed by the local administration and self-government that we've also now taken money for this very purpose in recent decisions of ours from half an hour or an hour ago, and now the state won't give it any more money for it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93884	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 46 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93885	Amendment No. 46 is not accepted for the reason that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93886	Zeljko Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93887	Thank you very much. At least I expected it to be some extra explanation. When it is denied, I remind myself of the regular implementation of the supplementary course, additional teaching and extracurricular activities in line with the real needs of the students we swore to when we adopted the strategy. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93888	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 47 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93889	Amendment No. 47 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93890	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93891	Thank you very much. So again, here is no further explanation for refusing to improve the system of professional training, professional associates, educators, students and teachers we also claimed to care deeply about when we brought in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93892	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 48 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93893	Amendment No. 48 shall not be accepted for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93894	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93895	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, at least I expected to get some kind of extraction, a guy that it was contained under paragraph A 733001 or let's say A 767022, but apparently the government didn't come to that degree to try to silence me. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93896	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 49 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93897	Amendment 49. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93898	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93899	Thank you very much. Well, I guess that fits the whole picture. In fact, we are now talking about the mechanisms of providing or organising professional support to kindergartens, schools and dormitories, so why would we finance it in terms of supporting the strategy when we were an hour ago, two of us decided that we would hit that precisely at the level of local self-government because we took away their money to support kindergartens, schools and dormitories. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93900	Please vote on the amendment. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 50 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93901	Amendment 50 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93902	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93903	Thank you very much. So we don't want to re-emphasise, to set up a network of kindergartens, schools, dormitories for mutual support, and I am stressing this in particular now because several of my amendments will come precisely with certain groups, vulnerable groups. Well, here's how much it's worth swearing to. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93904	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 51 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93905	Amendment No 51 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93906	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93907	Thank you very much. Of course, there is no resistance again, not even in the rest of the budget. Therefore, everything remains simple words. This is an amendment relating to the competition system, the network of summer and winter schools, courses, advanced learning programmes at national regional and local level. It is interesting that even at regional level this time, the government is not interested, which is otherwise all oriented regionally. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93908	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 52 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93909	Amendment No 52 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93910	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93911	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here is the amendment regarding a commitment that we voted on when we voted on the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. It is evident from everything that this strategy has ended in the administrative way that I unfortunately announced, and it is paper without any cover, without any meaning, and simply something that can be waved but which absolutely does not stand with the will of ruling to at least try to implement it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93912	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 53 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93913	Amendment 53 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93914	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93915	Madam Vice President, I just have to say once again that we've actually mocked ourselves, the government has mocked itself because we've come up with a strategy that we don't want and we won't implement. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93916	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 54 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93917	Amendment No 54 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93918	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93919	Thank you very much. Again pointless reasoning for something many have also sworn to, and this is to encourage the centres of execution in the education of the gifted through strengthening the capacity for education gifted, etc. etc. everything completely pointless in a country where the rulings want absolutely nothing to do with education, science and technology. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93920	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93921	Amendment number 55 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93922	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93923	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's the re-amendment that refers to supporting the establishment of new extra-school centres to work with gifted students in a country where people in thousands leave because they're not appreciated, so who would encourage something about gifted students. Well, best get them out of here right now so they don't suffer in this country with this kind of power. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93924	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 56 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93925	Amendment No 6 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93926	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93927	Thank you very much. Just one more piece of evidence that neither the government nor the ruling majority in the Assembly wants to implement the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93928	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 57 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93929	Amendment No 57 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93930	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93931	Thank you very much. Well, I now have to look at really who will vote because this amendment of mine refers to the full funding of two years of integrated pre-school education and education programmes for Roma in existing institutions for pre-school education. Now I am very interested in whether rulings who are otherwise so ready and on budget rebalancing, and even now on the occasion of the budget have opted for some financial ventures are going to reject really what this applies to. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93932	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 58 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93933	Amendment No 58 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93934	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93935	Thank you very much. Here, another inconsistency. This amendment refers to something envisaged in the strategy, which is related to the inclusion and development of economic and financial literacy, etc., environmental awareness, etc. It's fascinating how on the one hand we're going to talk about raising young people for entrepreneurs, that we want to become ecologically conscious, etc., and now we don't want to have any single lip at all, even if we mean that truly ruling people want to go in that direction. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93936	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 59 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93937	Amendment 59 shall not be accepted for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93938	Comrade Zeljko Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93939	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I'm going to read again what this amendment of mine was about, and it was about mobilising and financial stimulation of people under the level of education and qualifications, socially... and excluded, persons with disabilities, older people and third-aged people, and immigrants to participate in adult education. You will certainly refuse, and I only remind you that tomorrow is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and that I will certainly see some of you taking pictures, and that you are very much in favour of the rights and improvement of the position of persons with disabilities. Then vote against it. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93940	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 60 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93941	Amendment No 60 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the last amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93942	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93943	Thank you very much. As before, a completely pointless explanation for what this amendment should indicate, which is to financially encourage and develop and implement adult education programmes in small settlements with undeveloped and rural areas. When we've taken care of the underdeveloped and rural areas with the laws we've passed earlier today, why give them any money? I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93944	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 61st Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93945	Amendment 61 The government of the Republic of Croatia also does not accept the same reason as in the last amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93946	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I recently read in the media that he is keenly seeking to improve the primary education of adults. It is this amendment that refers to that part of the strategy of science and technology education, which is related to the primary education of adults and encourages older citizens to complete primary education. Obviously, it was all just a floscule, too. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93949	Amendment No 62 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons that it is not possible to remove the amount from the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and that this is part of the regular activities of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93950	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93951	Thank you very much. Here, thank God, at least one little bit of a higher explanation, but actually not because this refers to the establishment of an optimal network of primary school institutions and secondary schools with high school programmes that are not specifically listed in the state budget, which is precisely why it is listed as one of the objectives of the education, science and technology strategy, and that is why this amendment was proposed, but clearly there is no interest in that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93952	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Come on, come on, come on, come on, Please vote who hasn't voted. The amendment didn't get the required majority. The 63rd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93953	Amendment 63 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept an additional reduction in the activity of the Republic's President's office and this activity is provided for in the regular activities of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93954	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93955	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let's at least get some sort of explanation, not her earlier. However, this is not true because this is... focused on rational and effective reprogramming to say and establish a network of vocational schools and programs, why there is no specific item under the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93956	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm asking for a result. Please, I ask representatives who are not in the hall to enter the hall and vote. Please join in the vote, and I ask representatives outside the hall to enter the hall. There's a representative missing. The amendment didn't get enough of the majority. 64 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93957	Amendment No 64 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept an additional reduction in activity not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93958	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93959	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here I was just hoping I'd get one amendment at least because of a lack of time or nothing. But I expected here again I have to subfly to the government but they're not even able to refuse the amendments. I expected to get an answer, let's say it was mentioned under K 311825, etc. and then I would answer you that the modest addition of 6 schools is certainly not undermining what is written in the strategy that personnel will fully team up, materially equip centres according to the development of technologies and the need for the labour market, that they will be built to equip student homes in accordance with the needs of the Centre of Competence, etc., etc. what the government and the parliamentary majority voted fantastically in strategy, and now they won't give money for it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93960	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 65 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93961	Amendment No 65 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93962	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93963	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to know what the reason is, because we're already repeating ourselves so much now that I don't really know what the real reason is anymore is why we don't want to establish an optimal network of dormitories or finance it. I still didn't hear him. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93964	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93965	Amendment No 66 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and according to existing legal regulations of the means of construction, equipment of pre-school and school institutions are provided in the budgets of local, regional and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93966	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93967	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honorary Deputy Minister, why are you funding an upgrade of 5 schools if what you just said is true, that all of this is about local administration and self-government. And you and I both know that's not true, so it's a completely pointless and wrong explanation. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93968	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 67 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93969	Amendment No 67 The Government of the Republic of Croatia also does not accept that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and, in accordance with the existing legal regulations, the means for extended stay programmes are provided in the budgets of local, regional and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93970	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93971	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Honorable Deputy Minister, again the same as the previous one, is not true because the state also participates in this, but this also concerned the provision of the necessary spatial capacity to introduce an extended stay which was part of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, which is now completely annulled. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93972	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 68 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93973	Amendment No 68 The Government of the Republic of Croatia also does not accept that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93974	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93975	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, as with the previous sad listeners, it is not to take a little bit of money from the President's office to allow the implementation of special programmes for children with disabilities, I stress, again to those who will swear to it and defend vulnerable groups of the population, to take pictures of the end of these children, etc., and this applies to what you will probably now, as well as all my other amendments, reject. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93976	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 69 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93977	Amendment 69 also does not accept the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93978	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93979	Thank you very much. Of course the argument doesn't make much sense, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93980	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 70 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93981	Amendment No. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93982	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93983	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear Deputy Minister, I expected you to be a little more creative again, so let's just say that you're going to ask if you really need to increase the number of consultants and experts in the agencies because it's something that you could really talk about even though there's less money in this budget for the agencies. Unfortunately, however, the government does not have that kind of creativity, but only repeats that no money can be taken from the president. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93984	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 71st amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93985	Amendment No. 71st is also not accepted for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93986	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93987	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So much for swearing again in quality because this refers to effective management of the system of ensuring the quality of preschool and school education. Obviously, the quality of education and education is not important to us at all, it is more likely that three ficuses are put more into the Office of Presidents. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93988	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 72nd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93989	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment for reasons that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93990	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93991	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So this is what we refuse to provide education and licensing of external appraisers because, of course, external licensing obviously does not matter to us the same. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93992	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. The 73rd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93993	Amendment No. 73. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible in the users of the Croatian Parliament and the subject matter of the amendment is the regular activity of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93994	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93995	Thank you very much. This argument is simply not true because mentoring competences are not mentioned at all in any item of the budget under the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93996	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 74th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93997	Amendment No. 74. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93998	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u93999	Thank you very much. Here it is, obviously we are more important to ourselves than to establish a certain organisation of the centre of support for students in the making of final works and dissertations and then raise ourselves by that hand. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94000	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 75th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94001	Amendment No. 75. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94002	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94003	Thank you very much. So again, we do not want to establish a single system of information management relevant to Croatia's higher education space. So much for organization, so much for informing the desire to implement the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94004	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 76th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities and Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94005	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the reasons specified in the proposed amounts but has already been accepted through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94006	He's a colleague of Milorad Pupovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94007	The Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities is withdrawing this amendment and forwarding it to a fellow representative, Ivan Shuker, for the archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94008	The amendment has been withdrawn. And in which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94009	Madam Vice President, my colleague Pupovac can be very funny, but at someone else's expense. My colleague Pupovac, once the ultimatum laid out the conditions for amendments while I was a minister, so you're probably confused, I'm not a minister anymore, so don't play with those things. You could say a lot of things and I don't think such communication between MPs just works. So tell me why I could decide on your amendment. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94010	Amendment 76 was withdrawn and no injuries to the Rules of Procedure were made. It's an amendment to the 77th same clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94011	Amendment 77. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the reasons specified in the proposed amounts but has already been accepted through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94012	A colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94013	If these special forms of education will be financed by an additional 487 billion kuna as we have said, there is no reason not to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94014	Amendment 77 has been withdrawn. It's an amendment to 78 of the same clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94015	Amendment No. 78. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also does not accept for the same reason as indicated in the proposed amounts but has already been accepted through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94016	He's a colleague of Milorad Pupovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94017	We're withdrawing this amendment and we're not going to make it up to anyone, so that someone doesn't accidentally smile, and we're going to be ashamed of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94018	78 has been withdrawn. Amendment 79 of MPs to Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94019	Amendment No 79 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94020	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So it works on the one hand sadly when, as an explanation, we listen to one after another so that no funds can be cut for the Office of the President of the Republic, an office that receives 43 million plus 9 million to maintain with desert counselors, outside advisers, etc. I can only say that Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic's HDZ candidate will reduce that. ... /The noise in the hall./... However, if those who garner like this know what they will refuse to do with this amendment. ... /The noise in the hall./... With this amendment, therefore, those who usually swear to do so will refuse to establish and finance two-year quality alternative programmes for pre-school education and education for Roma in areas where pre-school education institutions are not available in cooperation with Roma associations, primary schools, etc. They obviously don't want to. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94022	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 80th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94023	Amendment number 80 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with existing legal regulations, funds for the elimination of spatial barriers programmes in kindergartens, schools and dormitories and the adaptation of space to children and students with disabilities, as well as the equipment of kindergartens, schools and dormitories, are provided in the budgets of local, regional and regional self-government. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall apply the rules on removing barriers in school institutions so that, when issuing consent to idea projects, the school prescribes a design obligation in such a way that the barriers are removed and stable. The best example for this is the newly built multi-functional centre for children with developmental difficulties Tomislav Špoljar in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94024	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94025	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, first of all, I have to make it very clear that we, or the ruling majority, are not us but the ruling majority of our decisions regarding local administration and self-government and finance, which is exactly what we have reduced the money to local administration and self-government. Therefore, not only will there be no elimination of spatial barriers in kindergartens, schools and dormitories, but there will be none. That is one thing, therefore, because their money has been taken away from them for the purpose of saving the central budget of the state that was brought into that state in which it is. But what you said was just fascinating. You say the state cares that way not to give money, but it says that when it gives permission to some kind of building that something has to be built. The purpose of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology was quite different, which is that the state will also advocate to eliminate spatial barriers in kindergartens, schools and dormitories and to adapt space to children and students with difficulties and to provide equipment and facilities with specific equipment that is necessary for the appropriate participation of children who have difficulty in the educational and educational process. Now you're saying it's not the state's concern and let them worry about the local administration and the self-government you've previously taken away from. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94026	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 81st Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94027	Amendment 81 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept an additional reduction in activity that is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94028	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, well-respected deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Of course, you do not see clearly what you are voting for, but you will raise your hands because you are so told that you must. However, what is this amendment about? As for the president's office, I said what I had, but this amendment refers to improving the general material status of teachers. So, the introduction of an item that at least symbolically, at a symbolic level, would say that we care, that you care, that the government cares about improving the general material status of a teacher, that's what this amendment is about. And now everyone who doesn't want to improve the physical status of a teacher, and you swear to that, raise your hands. Thank you very much for asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94030	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 82nd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94031	Amendment number 82 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, and the subject of the amendment is covered by the regular activity of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94032	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94033	Thank you very much. It is not true that it is covered by regular functioning because the strategy also envisaged a specific item which is likely to be rejected by this, which refers to training and support programmes for teachers' educators. Thus, when we do not care about the material condition of a teacher, we would care about their training and education. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94034	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 83rd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94035	Amendment number 83. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with users of the Office of the President of the Republic, and the topic is also in the regular activity of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94036	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94037	Thank you very much. It's annoying that story with the President's Office. However, this is also not contained and you know it is not contained because it is an additional strengthening of institutional and individual capacities for the implementation of research in the field of education and professional teacher development in order to create and improve education policy and educational practice. It doesn't seem to matter. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94038	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 84th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94039	Amendment number 84. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94040	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94041	Again a sad thing because it is about gifted students and encouraging work with gifted students, with election programs, joint and individual work, work with mentors, acceleration, extracurricular and extracurricular activities, etc. etc. Of course why it would be important. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94042	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 85th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94043	Amendment number 85. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94044	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94045	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear Deputy Minister, again more important is the Office of Presidents than supporting children, students with difficulties and gifts, and then vote for it if you think you can do it calmly. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94046	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 86th Amendment of Representatives Salapic, Grubisic, Drmic, Buric, Bubal, Djurovic and Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94047	Amendment number 86. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further downsizing of activities is not possible with the users of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the amendment does not comply with the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which determines that funds for the construction and equipment of schools are provided in the budgets of units of local and regional self-government. This refers to all school capital projects other than those for which the Republic of Croatia has accepted the obligation to finance, for example international loans, by specific regulations or programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94048	A colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94049	Thank you. I do not agree with your argument that there is the will of this government to help students in Slavonia and Baranja and all students in the Republic of Croatia. It would probably come up with some kind of solution, because here we are aware that building a new facility and sports hall of the Marjanci district school is necessary to improve the conditions of teaching, given that the existing facility is insufficient and cannot be upgraded. The students of the classroom are now travelling to Matija Gubec elementary school in Magadenovac, and building a new school would allow students of the Marjanci municipality to attend classes from first to eighth grade so that they would not have to travel. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94050	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 87th Amendment of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94051	Amendment number 87. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. So the argument is the same. Part of this must be financed from local and regional self-government funds, except those governed by the regulations, which are primarily international loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94052	A colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94053	Thank you. So the budget units of local self-government are too small and absolutely require assistance from the central state to manage to build all that is necessary for some normal functioning and teaching and sports activities. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94054	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 88th Amendment of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94055	Amendment 88. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the same reasoning as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94056	A colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94057	Thank you. I don't know if this ministry, the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, belongs to the Republic of Croatia as one of the poorest cities in Slavonia and Baranja and the Republic of Croatia. I think it requires and needs help from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because Donji Miholjac High School attends 499 students in the 21st grade department. The course takes place in two facilities and buildings that serve as workshops for practical teaching. Objects are 80 years old and have major moisture problems. So they're practically dysfunctional and that's why I'm asking for a vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94058	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 89th Amendment of counterpart Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94059	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept Amendment 89 for the reason that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the amendment does not comply with the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. And as previously stated, funds for such schools are provided to local and regional self-government units other than the specific regulations of the Republic of Croatia and loans of international character.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94060	Comrade Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94061	Thank you very much. It's a really incoherent explanation. You seem to be the minister only here in Mark's square, and the Sikirevs do not belong in the Republic of Croatia, and let the local self-government that has for these, therefore for the addition, construction of a sports hall in the Sikirevci. So the project is worth 8 million and 800,000 kuna. How do you think a municipality, a city and a school gym that has three times a year's budget of that amount? What means? So people in the municipality made project documentation, obtained a building permit, so it entered into the county strategy, so all the preconditions are going to be made. And now you're saying we're not in charge of that. And who's in charge of that? Papa Franjo, I guess. Who's gonna be in charge of that? County? Great! The county also looks great, fantastic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94062	Don't throw it away, let your colleague explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94063	I have nothing more to say to you, that's enough. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94064	Let's vote for an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 90th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94065	Amendment No. 90 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because this amendment is unnecessary because the funds for the construction of this school are secured on K 579064 capital investments in primary education from which capital projects financed by the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the World Bank from loans taken by the Republic of Croatia are financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94066	Comrade Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94067	Great, thank you very much. That's how much I am, and it's said on these TV shows, isn't it? It's been secured for six years, seven. And the school stands and the roof misses, a new money school where students can't go. And you keep to me here, I teach this amendment year after year for school in Pokkalje, and you don't finish it at all. I think it's a whole other game, so they're even gonna have to work on that school. Because some things happen at that school very strange things happen and strange things happen at that school. So, there are games playing around the school in Pomperage, sir. Please send an inspection, Jovanovic sent an inspection and education and others, but it will take another inspection and even a question of entering the USKOK to see why this school in Pokrkalje is not built once already. Or something else in the interest is behind it because there's an interest in building the Glogovica Retention, which is 200 meters from the school. So someone else needs something else, and the school also has 200 students from the area, leaving the pool of the scrimmage, travelling to Podvinje every day to school and back. Is it your goal for these children to travel, and at night, it's four o'clock a.m.? Is it your goal to keep them in the cafes so we can have more traffic, VAT to create? What are you asking these children to do and what are they doing? It's a disaster! I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94068	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 91st Amendment to Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94069	Amendment No. 91 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94070	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94071	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the Honorable Deputy Minister of Explanation is of course absolutely pointless because what both the Government and this House are committed to adopting the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology is completely disabling. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94072	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Please join the vote and enter the hall you left. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 92nd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94073	Amendment No. 92 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94074	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94075	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So why should we encourage and support students and career counseling when we already know that these students all who work abroad will go abroad thanks to the disastrous functioning of this same government that refuses this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94076	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 93rd Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94077	Amendment No. 93 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94078	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94079	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I just hope I don't get to hear the expression "lifelong learning and education" in this house anymore because this is what you're just refusing to do. I just hope we don't mention it anymore and claim that we care about it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94080	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 94th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94081	Amendment 94. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94082	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94083	Thank you very much. So as we treated teachers and teachers in high schools now systematically, and that's good I can only praise it, that systematically so we will treat teachers obviously in the higher education system i.e. Of course we'll completely ignore them. If that's what you're up for, vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94084	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 95th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94085	Amendment 95 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94086	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94087	Dear Madam Deputy Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, and I was hoping for at least some other answer. In fact, grotesquely, it is administratively grotesque that we have voted in favour of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology, which obliges us to gradually increase budgetary allocations for higher education to achieve EU media. And then by this act we say that it's all nonsense and that we won't do it, and in this budget you're going to cut by 214 million kunas exactly that item. So why did we ask that strategy again? Just so she can wave with it, she's mocked, with this budget she's really mocked. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94088	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 96 amendments to the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94089	Amendment 96 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94090	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94091	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So again, I have to admit, I'm deeply disappointed with the explanation, not the rejection. I understand that this government has no absolute understanding for science, for education but unfortunately neither for the economy. We see that every day. And this amendment of mine applied precisely to that, to the system of tax relief for economic operators and private persons investing in higher education to encourage what many have also sworn and what they have written in the strategy, which is that it cannot all depend on the state but that we need to create mechanisms to involve various economic operators in the financing of science and education. Apparently, the government cares about it, and it probably won't be the rulings either, so it'll vote against my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94092	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 97 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94093	Amendment 97 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94094	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94095	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This is an amendment that I knew would be rejected, for the others I hoped would not, and this one I knew would be rejected because it was about what you voted on, what you voted on in the Science, Education and Technology Strategy, and as far as allocation was concerned, it was the assets that were committed by the sale of state property or through state concessions in higher education. As you voted on the strategy, you probably forgot it at the same time, and you don't want to take a small first step towards at least a part, a small part of the funds that the state sells and makes investments in higher education. Of course, that and everything that needs to be taken to the citizens, and it needs to fill the gaps in the budget, but not for higher education, but for survival until the next election. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94096	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 98 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94097	Amendment No 98 also does not accept the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94098	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94099	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not even disappointed in the government anymore and her arguments. And why is that? Because if they were a little bit more capable then perhaps we could answer yes, for example. It is not in some other items that do not make sense now because it is irrelevant anyway, no one cares about it. However, it is not indicated and clearly does not want to build or restore existing high-school capacities according to national priorities. And neither do we have national priorities, nor does anyone care about high schools. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94100	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 99 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94101	Amendment number 99 shall not be accepted for the same reason as indicated in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94102	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94103	Thank you very much. I expected at least a little creativity again, so let's say it was under K621173 or K252755, etc. But, of course, no one cares that there is an excessive explanation, and of course no one cares, and I also have to look at the minister to upgrade and expand information and communication infrastructure in science and education because this is the amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94104	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 100 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94105	Amendment No 100 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and that this topic is an integral part of regular work in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94106	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94107	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Again annoying about the President's office. I'm not going to say anything, but it's simply not true because it should be a new set of high-school management software that is not in the draft of this budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94108	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 101st Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94109	The 101st Amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for reasons that further reduction of activity is not possible in the user's office of the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94110	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I hope that now everyone will really consider raising their hands because this concerns the national funding system to achieve a higher level of accessibility for students with disabilities for which I propose only the ridiculous, symbolic million kunas that would be taken by the president's office. I beg you, think about it. Tomorrow is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, how you will look into their eyes tomorrow. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94112	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. It's the 102nd amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94113	Amendment 102 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94114	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm sure my colleagues in charge will be condescending, and then they'll turn down 500 thousand kunas that could provide auxiliary technology, assistants in the disability class. I guess they don't care. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94116	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 103 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94117	Amendment 103 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94118	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94119	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The day before the International Day of Persons with Disabilities you will likely refuse to finance with a symbolic sum ensuring spatial accessibility and the application of universal design that would allow all students including students with disabilities to be available to all resources intended for students. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94120	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 104 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94121	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the 104th amendment for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94122	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94123	Thank you very much. So again similar or the same topic the day before International Day for Persons with Disabilities, you will likely refuse an amendment that seeks to ensure tailored transportation to disabled students. Institutional support service for students with disabilities at higher universities every academic year, and you raise your hand if you don't think you should. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94124	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 105th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94125	The 105th Amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94126	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94127	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must admit it is quite understandable if you do not raise your hand for this amendment concerning scholarships for foreign students of doctoral schools at Croatian higher schools when you refuse to do so for Croatian high school students. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94128	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 106th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94129	Amendment No 106 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94130	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94131	Thank you very much. So again, I expected that you would at least try to get away with that being stated under (a) 818 033, but who cares about such things and such details should all be rejected... Therefore, of course I expect you to refuse this too because we would interfere with the world, have, encourage foreign scientists to come to Croatian higher schools when we are satisfied with the situation as we are. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94132	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 107th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94133	Amendment 107 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept an additional reduction in activity for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia's Presidents' Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94134	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94135	Thank you very much. Well, like the previous one, why would we care about international high school cooperation when we have the office of the President of the Republic? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94136	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 108th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94137	Amendment No 108 is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94138	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94139	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must look again at the minister because this amendment, and you too, look at it when you raise your hand against my amendment, because this amendment refers to the upgrade and integration of existing information systems for science and higher education into a single system. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94140	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 109th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94141	Amendment 109 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94142	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94143	Thank you very much. And this amendment applies to some things that, of course, no one in this country cares about. Since encouraging the implementation of research missions and social roles, high schools, strengthening the supervisory function of founders, through quality monitoring, etc., etc., but who cares. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94144	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 110 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94145	Amendment 110 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason that further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and this falls under the regular activities of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94146	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94147	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Unfortunately, this is not true because it is about establishing new doctoral schools at the university and institutional level. It is about establishing international joint doctoral studies and national doctoral studies with at least 80% of the research component based on existing quality doctoral studies. So the answer, of course, does not stand. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94148	Are you asking for a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 111 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94149	Amendment 111 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94150	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94151	Well, that's just completely pointless. And again, my amendment went in a direction in which at least the strategy of education, science and technology went verbally. Now you can see that it was one big delusion that the whole strategy and that you never thought truly was to start implementing it. It says that it needs to gradually change the structure of education and science separation by reducing the share of personal income to the total mass, and increasing the separations from the state budget and GDP, when we know that we are at the bottom of European countries by doing so, and that in fact none of those who can influence it, and that you are dear colleagues together with the Government, does not care, as it does not care to even begin to implement the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, then only one can be sorry for the man for all of this. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94152	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 112 amendments to the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94153	Amendment 112 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94154	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94155	Thank you very much. Well, that's funny because I expected it to be said that it might be contained in something else and that it's a normal function of the ministry, etc. Whereas this refers to the same financial preconditions for the work of all public educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia which we know are not. But I expected at least a minimum of effort from the government to try to make some kind of explanation. Obviously, I couldn't live with that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94156	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 113 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94157	Amendment 113 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94158	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94159	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So again, I ask you all to look at the Minister of Science, Education and Sports as you will vote against equal access to information and communication technologies to all institutions in education and science. If that's what you want, raise your hand. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94160	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 114 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94161	Amendment 114 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94162	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94163	Thank you very much. I'm not asking for anything more, but I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94164	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 115 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94165	Amendment No 115 is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the same reason as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94166	A colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's my last amendment, so I won't bother you anymore. You'll probably be pleased. And, of course, with this amendment concerning the increase in the budget for scientific competitive programmes and projects to at least 0.15% of GDP, it will definitely be revealed that it was never in mind for the ruling to even start implementing the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, that at least try to give a little more money for science and education than the poor, I will not say how many percentages that are allocated at this time for science and education. Just please, don't ever speak those big words that we've often heard in this hall swearing that only science and education can get us out of this difficult economic situation, etc., etc. With this you definitely nailed the last nail in the box of the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology and clearly showed that it was never in your mind to even start to make fun of everything that was said about science and education, and I just hope we won't talk about it anymore because all of you who are going to get up for this hand would have to blush then.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94168	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 116th Amendment of Representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94169	Amendment No. 116. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept for reasons why further reduction of activity is not possible with the users of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94170	She's a colleague of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94171	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The northern region has 650 thousand inhabitants. The northern region has an average of more and higher education 10% while in Croatia it is 18% and, for example, in Zagreb 30%. And the northern region is the only region in Croatia that has no public, therefore the state-funded university. In the parliamentary procedure I referred the Law establishing the University of the North so that our university would finally get the status it has and all the other universities in Croatia because our cities as founders, about this today there were a lot of words here that financially can no longer endure it. Until the law is discussed and adopted, I am asking that funding be provided in 2015 for our university where more than 3500 students are studying today and I hope that their study will not be compromised. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94172	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 117 of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94173	Amendment No. 117. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall accept in the modified form for the amounts of an increase in source 12 without an increase in source 5 6 1 as that increase would lead to an increase in expenditure contrary to Article 38. State budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94174	Who's going to explain it? The president of the board, Walter Boluncic. [[Intruder: Chairman of the Committee.]] Do you accept a change like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94175	So we accept this proposal and essentially adopt this amendment with a redeployment of the costs necessary for the infrastructure for higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94176	The amendment has been accepted in a changed form. 118th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94177	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94178	We're moving on to the 119th Amendment. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we will soon declare the budget to enter the hall. And now I call on Deputy Minister of Health Marijan Cesarik to explain Amendment 119 of MPs Salapic, Grubisic, Drmic, Buric, Bubal, Djurovic and Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94179	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. Health inspection of the Ministry of Health and Social Care was carried out on 13 October 2009 with the participation of members of the section of the section for Health and Social Care of Osijek-Baranja County on 13 October 2009. On the basis of the facts identified, due to non-compliance with the conditions of space, medical technical equipment and health care professionals to carry out childbirth in accordance with modern standards in maternity and inability and to achieve health care and health services of the standardised quality of the same content, in accordance with the provisions of Article 180(3) and (5) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, The Health Protection Act has been issued a solution to the ban on the exercise of maternity activity. A significant drop in the number of births during 2009 means a total of 62 births were carried out on 13 October 2009. These inability to deal with possible complications prevents the application of modern standards, the care of childbirth. Đakovo's maternity activity in the House of Health has functioned exclusively through the continued preparedness of two gynecology and maternity specialists, based on the work contract and the business cooperation contract. For normal maternity function and delivery according to modern standards, at least four gynecology specialists, anaesthesiology specialists, anesthesiological technicians, the presence of pediatric specialists, neonatologists, and the supply of blood and blood products should be ensured, which is not medically justified in view of the trend of the birth rate. According to data from the Croatian Scientific Statistical Yearbook, Croatian Institute of Public Health He's been shown... [[Thank you very much. I think it's time for an explanation.]] What? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[ZGREEC: Reasonable timed out./]] Thank you very much. So for professional medical reasons, there is no excuse to establish a maternity home in Djakova.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94180	Who's going to explain? Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94181	Thank you very much, colleague Cesarik, you come from Slavonia, you will not be remembered in Slavonia for the good for Slavonic health and let alone for Croatian. Namely, the strategy, or master, the master plan, we have the words of the main plan of the hospital you've implemented, so you rejected it and now you're implementing some mini master plan, and I don't know what it's not, and among other things you've connected the pancreat with, the hospital with Požeg, Gradiška and Brod, these are the first guinea pigs in Croatia and you haven't done anything about others, among others. But if the maternity ward is closed, you said October 13th, 2009 so it's not amen. And it's closed and the Sirak-Pakrac railroad is open again. At the same time, the Pleternica-Our railway line is closed, so it's being reconstructed. So do not say that no one will ever be born in Djakov again. It practically means that. In addition, your masterplan envisioned the Kukuriku coalition to strengthen primary health care, strengthen health homes with possibly a stationary and primary gynecology, with a maternity home. That's your plan, your goal. Where's Djakovo then? He's gone, but we're still hoping that even though it's been five years that he'll change his mind and not be a problem, he'll get a professional problem. So today it's mobile work, you like to say fluctuate labour, people work from Osijek, Đakov, Đakov, Nasice, Nasic, Osijek, etc. So is that a problem at all? And as for blood preparations, it's the biggest problem because you actually destroyed the Institute of Immunology in Zagreb that made blood preparations and you know how much we had in the war of blood products. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94182	Thank you very much. Time's up. Are you asking for a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. [[Intruder: Yes.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. The 120th Amendment of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94183	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation will be much shorter. Therefore, given that Articles 4 and 24 are applicable. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases determines how counties or the City of Zagreb, municipalities and cities are required to ensure the implementation of public protection measures against infectious diseases prescribed by this law and the means to implement them, as well as professional supervision of the implementation of these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94184	Who's going to explain? Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94185	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, your argument could come to light as soon as possible, and we'd best take it ourselves and beat mosquitoes across Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. It's a big health problem. Summer in Osijek and every year more and more because of the proximity of Kopački rit, but also because of the great rainy rainfalls that were in Slavonia we simply in the City of Osijek or in the surrounding area could not go out to the street to drink coffee on the terrace, these mosquitoes literally entered our mouths. So it's good to legally write that cities and municipalities are obliged to take care of it themselves, but large funds, 30 million kunas, we don't even have enough for basic economic projects, let alone to destroy mosquitoes. Since health care is one of the constitutional categories of protection of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so here I propose, we are both from Slavonia, replacing for a week with the citizens of Zagreb to see that they cannot stay in Osijek in summer or in towns and municipalities throughout Osijek. So I suggest we vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94186	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. I now ask the vice-president and the minister of social policy and youth to explain Amendment 121 of MPs Igor Cesek and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94187	Amendment 121 is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to meet the needs of social care users, as well as for projects and programmes implemented by the ministry. In fact, this amendment offers a million-and-a-half kuna increase, and I would like to point out here that we have increased 46 million kuna compared to last year on items aimed at reducing poverty and social exclusion. On the other hand, the ministry responsible for education is familiar with the obligation to report any poverty of children and violation of child's property rights at the social care centre that has mechanisms for spotting. I must further point out that in the Croatian budget and this year, a billion and 700 million kuna are provided on behalf of the child's allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94188	Here you go, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94189	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, we are pleased that you have come with your head as they say and your beard here today for discussion at the Croatian Budget Assembly. In fact, we didn't even ask for money to ensure every child doesn't know how much, but we were looking for a diet target. You yourself were here on the current morning when counterpart Novak asked the question, and the media also found that there are a good number of hungry children in the Republic of Croatia, school children. I know that it may be more important that your government, modest in the results, but in Tač and Asa, therefore to the prominent Zagreb restaurants, eats much better than children in school, and it is a little bit debauchery and spend tax money in those restaurants. But it would certainly be good if one of those funds spent on Wednesdays in Tač, Thursdays in Asa, and the drinks that are used to separate some of them for hungry school children. Unfortunately, that's not the case. And what can you do? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94190	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Now, please, Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec. Amendment 122 of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94191	That amendment is not accepted by the Government for a technical reason because it cannot be reduced to decentralised functions. However, the government accepted it with its amendment, so the same amendment the government had in the previous explanation we accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94192	Thank you. The National Minorities Club, do you accept such an explanation? You're withdrawing the amendment? A colleague of Hodzic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94193	We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94194	Amendment 122 has been withdrawn. Amendment 123 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94195	The government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94196	Amendment 124 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94197	The government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94198	Amendment 125 representatives of the Sun Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94199	The government does not accept it since an amendment 124 has already achieved an increase for the commissioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94200	Here you go, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, that might say something a little bit we let them tell us we didn't give anything. So this amount I asked to increase for the functioning of the Commissioner's Office was not memorized. These are the minimum funds that the Commissioner needed for the office to function. To compare all the assessments they spoke and you assured us that it was necessary to establish the Office of the Commissioner for Information. So to compare the country in an environment, it takes a minimum of 6 and a half million kuna to do a job like this. So, what you've given I think it was just because it was an extraordinary public pressure and I don't think it's good this way to pet your eyes. Besides, I don't know what would be wrong with the Prime Minister's office if this amount dropped in his position because we see that God knows what's not even being achieved in his office except maybe he's doing his own PR. I will still ask my colleagues to vote since they voted on the necessity of establishing the Commissioner's Office in the Republic of Croatia. Then let us also give additional resources, i.e. the resources needed to enable the Commissioner's Office to function and perform its legal role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94202	Are you asking for a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. And amendment 126 to Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94203	The government does not accept it from the same explanation as the previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94204	I'm a colleague of Mladen Novak's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94205	Thank you very much. Well, like my colleague said before, this is actually a clean eye rub. Are we clean to calm our own conscience, and on the other hand it's about the only institution we can say is that it works successfully and well. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94206	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. We have exhausted the amendments, so I am voting on the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017. The budget requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in accordance with Article 76, Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So 76 votes. Let's approach the vote. I note that, with 85 votes for and 23 against the adoption of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and the projection for 2016 and 2017, the text proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Please, a little peace! In accordance with Article 24. The budget law is now moving to a vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries. 1. Proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017 The debate on the text of the proposal is over. I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for 2015 and the 2016 and 2017 projection. Let's approach the vote. I find that with 84 votes for, 1 abstention, 21 against a decision made. We move to the proposal for funding of the Croatian Roads Plan for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017. The debate on the text of the proposal is over. We have a special table for the amendments. Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic, First Representative Igor Cesek's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. Construction of the fast road Vrbovec – Bjelovar – Virovitica – the state border with Hungary is in line with the dynamics of project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94209	Igor Češek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94210	Thank you. Minister Hajdas-Doncic once said the deadline for completion of the works is expected in 2017. Since I'm going that way, I can see that there's practically nothing out of work. In one part of the road there is one manager and two workers who don't even know what they're doing, so in 2017 we can't expect the end of this road that is extremely important for the Virovitica-Podravska County and for Bjelovarska-Biogorsko, but in order to connect with European corridors and directions. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94211	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment two, representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94212	Thank you very much. The amendment is also not accepted with the following explanation. In view of the significant reduction in the building of that stock, that share is not in the financial plan for 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94213	Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94214	Thank you very much. Mr. Antesic, I hope that since Mr. Milanovic is leading, so Shengen and the borders, and you see the road Ilock – Lovas – Tovarnik – Lipovac this is the continuation of the Podravska highway ending on Lipovac, so there are three border crossings in Ilock, Tovarnik and Lipovac. Three border crossings, not small-border, but border crossings. And now here's the road that's been promised since HDZ I don't even know if the project documentation of that road is finished, let alone to build it. I knew that, but I asked as a question, given that we are regulating the border towards countries that will not enter for long, so those in the east, I am asking the EU the question, therefore, of these three border crossings and accessing them on this road. So, if the problem is and the constriction of one of them is such as on Lipovac then you, it is no problem to go towards Ilock or towards Tovarnik and cross at the second border crossing. But no, obviously there's not enough wisdom to figure that out. That's not how it's done. There's no money, it's your old lady not to say pain, is there? But good. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94215	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94216	The amendment is also not accepted with the following explanation, that project is in the phase of the preparation of the application documentation to EU funds. At the end of the preparation, it will be possible to go into construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94217	Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94218	Yes, long-term preparations for 15 years there is an idea of building an eastern road in Slavonski Brod, which would be used primarily for traffic, and this would lead to faster access to highway A3. In addition, you know that there is therefore an economic area of Luke and indeed a river port on the Sava River in which a large economic complex should soon be on 100 hectares. There's even a railway line from the port to the station in Slavonski Brod. Even now, it's growing ambrosia there, but it might get better. But that eastern road has been in spatial plans for over 10 years. And now you're telling me the paperwork isn't finished. So who's drawing that file? What is the efficiency, efficiency of this country and Croatian highways, Croatian roads in connection with this? I think by the time we're 3017, we'll still be able to build an eastbound road. I think you understand me, 3017, not 2017. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94219	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94220	The amendment shall not be accepted with the reasons set out in that section. The southern bypass of Nova Gradiška, which is covered by the amendment, is located from County Road No. 4157 to the 51 state road and will be completed according to plan and this is the beginning of next year for an amount of around 2 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94221	Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94222	Well, it would be said by this, and before you promised me a lot of things, Mr. Antešić and it wasn't done, you told me about the underpass in Slavonski Brod I remember well last year that the construction will begin in early 2014. Here we are witnessing that Osječka Street D423 so in Slavonski Brod is closed 15 days ago. So, just before the new year itself in the fall when the rains go, you'll start digging and the baggers will start in winter as if it were the best season of construction. That's what you say about this south bypass around Nova Gradiška. And I just heard from a new citizen here somewhere in our area that no property relations have been solved for that part yet, and no project documentation has been completed. And now you're telling me it's gonna be over in early 2016. They were alive to see it, but then you will no longer be deputy minister or will be this government anymore. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94223	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94224	Thank you very much. The amendment is also not accepted with the following explanation, the shares of BETERMAN are defined by the financing agreement with the European Investment Bank and it is not possible to add new shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94225	Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94226	Mr. Antesic, a colleague of Czechs says you said the same thing to him last time, and now you're repeating it to me. We know very well what BETTERMANN means in English. If the cycle isn't an improvement of the road or better, better is better in English, then I don't know what that means. So, better and faster car flow at some intersection. And now, because of some termology, that's not what you're saying. I don't know what it's into, but if you had the good will and the intention of supporting the construction of a circular current at Kaufland, Nova Gradišca. I don't know the number of roads now, etc., and there's a number of that road is county, but there's no will and you say no money, and that's how you've been dragging us around for four years. I'm asking for a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94227	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94228	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted with the following explanation, the reconstruction of the above-mentioned overpass is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads since the railway crosses the county road No. 4157 and the right address for this amendment is the budget of the County Road Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94229	Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94230	Thank you very much. We, as in the feudal era, talk, feel Nova Gradiška as if it were not in Croatia but outside Croatia. Croatian railways are one another feed and your ministry, i.e. the Croatian road the third feud. Well, I guess there's communication or communication between these factors in this country. Or you're each having your own feud and managing. And then one railway overpass is about to get stuck by trucks if there's an extension of the carrier up there and supplying an industrial park in Nova Gradišca with goods, so it's always half a metre high on the overpass. It's either a railroad or a truck, some of those two. And it's been standing there for 10 years and you can't go half a foot or two that way. That doesn't make any sense to me. I don't know who's in charge. Now you say City of Nova Gradiška, HZ says Croatian roads, Croatian roads say City of Nova Gradiška and so we spin around in circles as cats catch their own tail. So deal with it once in between and settle it for 2,3 million kuna, which does not mean much at the end of the Croatian budget. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94231	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seven amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94232	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment is also not accepted for the same reason because the reconstruction of that road crossing is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads but of the County Road Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94233	Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94234	Thank you very much. Mr. Antesic, you didn't need to, that transition is filled with gravel if you want me to tell you. So, on my written inquiry to the Ministry and Croatian Railways, Croatian railways had mercy and poured that 10 cm of high tracks above the road profile, so the cars had great damage crossing the crossing between Batrina and Selac. However, while you're at it, while you're at it, please talk to the Croatian Railways to solve the same way and move towards Magic small of Nova Kapela, and to Sic because there are 10 cm tracks. That's the so-called. An important trans-European 10th rail corridor that has just such crossings across the track that cars cut off not kidneys but shock absorbers, exhausts, wheels, bearings and everything else. And so this Slavonia, so here's the real traffic from the auto mechanics, so we have a VAT that's hitting on it all together. We'll help you when you can't help us. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94235	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8 amendments to the MP Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94236	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment is also not accepted. Therefore, the programme of investment in county and local roads is defined by the County Road Administration and not the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94237	A colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94238	Thank you. Last year there was a problem in... now there's a problem at County Roads Authority. I think the biggest problem is that this road is located in the area of Slavonia and Baranja, it is the first and most basic problem. When this budget for 2015 saw the light of day the Slavs fell dark on their eyes and the same as most Croats. This is a financially unrequested amendment, and it would link the Virovitica-Podravska County to Požega-Slavonski. The amount is practically insignificant to the state budget. In the middle of that macadam road is the famous Jankovac field, visits a huge number of tourists, even from Hungary come people, from Osijek-Baranja County, Brod-Posaviska, Požeko-Slavonska. The mountaineering home on Jankovic is owned by the state, therefore owned by the Croatian forests and the state cannot finance the asphalting of the macadam road to the resort. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94239	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am now giving adoption of the Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017. I find that the decision was made by 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and 15 against. Proposal for a financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017 The debate on the text of the proposal is over. I am giving adoption of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017. Please vote. I find that the decision was adopted by 83 votes for, 3 abstentions and 14 against. Proposal for a Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017 The debate on the text of the proposal is over. I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2015 and the 2016 and 2017 projections. Let's approach the vote. I find that the decision has been taken by 83 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 17 against. Proposal for a Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017 The debate on the text of the proposal is over. I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2015 and the 2016 and 2017 projections. Please, let's vote. I find that the decision was made by 83 votes for, five abstentions and 13 against. Proposal for a Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2015 and projections for 2016 and 2017 The debate on the text of the proposal is over. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for 2015 and the projections for 2016 and 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that the decision was taken by 83 votes to, 2 abstentions, 15 against. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised, together with the representatives of the proposings, to conduct a editorial of the text of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2015 and the financial plan of the budgetary users prior to their publication in the National Journal. Please vote. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion with 99 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94240	Today we will do more - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, second reading, P.Z. No. 746; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law, and amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Links, the Committee on Law-Laws, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So very briefly, the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2015 regulates revenues, receipts, expenditures and expenditures for 2015 and its implementation, the scope of the debt, State guarantees, public debt management and financial and non-financial assets. Short, so the budget base hasn't changed, the amount is 3326 kuna. In 2014 the total debt limit is also 2.5%... the total turnover of the business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The borrowing on the foreign and domestic market can be made up to a total amount of HRK 36.3 billion while the current repayments of the principal debt amount to HRK 22.6 billion, the debt of extra budget users is 2 billion, and the current repayments of the principal are 1.6. The financial guarantees amount to 6 billion kuna, a guarantee of 548 million in aid to local and regional (regional) self-government units in line with the new criteria of assisted areas and is... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94242	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club will speak for the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we used to be able to discuss this document until 2:00 in the morning, but I'd like to say something about a document that's obviously technical. However, if politics had not interfered with its story, so much about what the budget should look like and what things should happen then probably this document would be. And sometimes, in principle, when this document was discussed, the most talk was about how many units of local self-government could be in debt. And that was the only point of reluctance. I remember when I was an opposition representative and later when I was Minister Mršić was sitting there and fellow Linic so they kept saying this as an observation, but today I just gave it a little hint when I talked about the budget. Look, colleagues and colleagues in Croatia have been talking for two years about monetisation being the only salvation for Croatian highways. And what I said in today's debate, and I'm going to do it again, and now that you're going to sell something, then you can never say it's your only way out because the logical thing that makes sense is that whoever wants to buy it will give as little money as possible. But that's part of the story. If what the Prime Minister is saying is true and the resolute minister that this is crucial that this must be done, no draft budget could be made without the intended concession revenue because according to the existing laws of the Republic of Croatia, this is the revenue from the concession. And secondly, colleagues and colleagues, what the Minister of Finance said, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget would not then be like this, because if it were to be planned for monetization then in the articles on the implementation of the budget, this approval that we give to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for debt would seem quite different regardless of how much that income would be listed here, and for that amount, the Republic of Croatia should be less in debt, and ultimately it would either serve financing this year's deficit or solving some things from before. But it simply has to be in one serious story in this document, it has to be. Because all the stories the government's been telling so far fall into the water, because they don't have one in their own document. Tell your colleagues and colleagues in which document do we have a highway monetization? We had that concession law when the HDZ Club proposed an amendment that the concession of highways, forests, waters and other or strategic enterprises or national treasures could not be decided and discussed without a special law to be discussed in this high house. And look, you can run away from something but sometimes you come to the wall to simply put something on paper. That's how this budget came in. Neither does the government, and first of all, the Prime Minister who is so eager to do so, has mentioned it in any word today. Is that fear, because I don't know what else to call it, if you won't put it in key documents, then it's fear. You know more than the rest of us, and you won't put it in documents. Because even if there was a highway monetization, that's all the documents that have to be changed. But if you're predicting, by the more your last year of mandate to do so, then you have to have it in your strategic documents. Also one point that has been very often the subject of harsh debates are guarantees. In the past 12 or 13 years, not counting the last 3 years, guarantees have been generally given to tourism companies, something to HAC and Croatian roads and shipbuilding. However, look now at the level of guarantees of 6 billion kuna exclusively practically HZ and Croatian roads. What happened at HH? Look, I'm only saying it for something, it's not good to repeat it. For years we've been lurking about what's going on in the shipbuilding, we've been giving guarantees for years, now in exactly the same way we're giving guarantees to HZ without anyone passing on to us what's going on in HZ and why these guarantees are being used. And the result will ultimately be exactly the same. In a year based on ESA 2010, some government in 2011, it doesn't matter which one will attach to the budget as it happened in 2010, and as it was a colleague, Linic, if I'm not mistaken in 2003 when those 8 billion jumped. So, it's exactly the same story. That's all I'm saying is that it stays written down that still in Parliament we talked about some things that are potentially dangerous. Because this is not, unfortunately, what is happening to us in Croatia, the subject of political bickering. These are real things and who doesn't learn from one mistake, we obviously don't learn. Have we spoken one word about the Croatian railways in the last two years? Remember the attempts of this privatisation, the attempt of that, and what I know, we on this side have warned you didn't secure the money in the budget, I can't go any more subsidies, we'll give guarantees. Okay, so in a way, the Ministry of Finance has ensured that HZ is breathing. Information that's happening nothing. The third thing, it's not clear to me now whether I predicted it or if you colleagues from the Ministry of Finance dropped it, it was in the old law on the implementation of the state budget, I think it was article 33, which is the height of public debt. This is in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, we are obliged to put into the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Well, I'd like to ask you that the government amendment is the only way that you can practically do it, because if I make the amendment, then someone will find a reason not to put it in, put it in. And I'd like to say the same thing, some of them got smart after six years or five that the government budget deficit should be a constitutional category. For this speaker in 2009, when the budget was proposed, when it was actually seen how much the deficit had exploded, it was proposed that the deficit be a constitutional category for one single reason. No finance minister carries it in a certain way, but it's not the fault of the deficit. It's the government's fault for the deficit that didn't implement the policy. Every time the Ministry of Finance made the limit and the proposal then for me and my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance went for the sole reason, we knew what was going to happen let's make a consensus and put in the Constitution when we changed the Constitution in 2010 that the deficit was a constitutional category. Perhaps fellow Linic, who later came to the post of Finance Minister, could be easier, perhaps today by fellow Lalovci. Because if something is a constitutional category, then someone can't break it like we're breaking the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Because we have in the Fiscal Responsibility Act defined what we wanted to put Ra into the Constitution. But apparently the law that we've adopted here, which has once again been changed and some things further strengthened, we don't stick to it. Look, we changed last week that our public debt in 2014 could be 82%, and by then it was 62% and nobody in Croatia bothered, so I would be begging if I hadn't accidentally missed this article. Article 35 and Article 3 of the Rules on assistance to local self-government units. If ever this story about local self-government units was to be found in the Budgetary Law, it should be found now. Look, colleagues and colleagues, today I've been asking a few direct questions, not the finance minister, but the vice-president who's been selling us balalaikas here for the past three or four days, begging him to tell me where the positions in the budget are these huge compensations for local self-government. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I've combed that budget from A to G. You have two key positions, it's at the position of the Ministry of Finance of Decentralised Functions and the part that's now complex. And that's why I believe that the State Budget Act, if there are no decompensation measures, and apparently there are none, was supposed to be a place. So what we both talked about was that part of the profit tax was put instead of income tax on decentralised functions, and it could have been settled by that law without amending any other law, that the units of local self-government through decentralised functions and through the part to which social income tax belonged, got a full share of income tax, and that part of the balancing fund was formed from income tax funds and could have been found here. The second thing, in which position is the interest tax money? If we haven't already taxed them as income, and that's income and... part of the law on the financing of units of local self-government belongs to units of local self-government, but we said it was the income of the state budget, but we're going to redistribute it to local self-government units, if that's the case, then it had to be found in the State Budget Act where the special document would define that and the funds that would be used for that and that, then that would make sense. Now, when you... put it in, you can throw a bucket of sweet water in the sea, nothing will change. So in the 115, 116 billion budget, you can throw 100, 200 million, nothing will get through. I'm saying this for the reason that tomorrow they're going to hit the Ministry of Finance on various sides, and politics hasn't given them the opportunity to sort things out. And finally, HABOR. Today when I spoke on behalf of the club about the budget, I was talking about that this government has made a wrong closed circle and is now essentially moving from the beginning without knowing which economic policy it will lead. And while I was a minister, there was pressure for HABOR to wear... but then the situation on the financial market was quite different and HABOR might not have taken so long. However, when the economic crisis began in 2009 and those of us who were then saying we shouldn't, we tried through the CNB in HABOR to draw a lot of funds through model A, B and C, to help the economy. Later, and this should be openly acknowledged, so in 2012, HABOR's core capital was increased through certain loans, the HABOR was given the opportunity to participate in projects of economic ministries. These billion-dollar loans and something else they didn't see in the government budget deficit, they had a completely different status. But they saw each other, I think it's a group... 500, is that right, the Ministry of Finance made it clear that it was a billion and something else, and remember in the end that last year's changes in the budget, in the Budget Implementation Act, we corrected that figure for 100 and something else million, because there was a billion and something else and then 900 happened later. Look at the colleagues and colleagues, a total of about a billion 500 and 600 million as far as HABOR is concerned, we've come to 500 and so many millions for HABOR. It's the same giving up on one policy. You can't say on the one hand that they're going to listen to HABOR's statements, we're going to do that and we're going to do that, and the government isn't giving the funds it's given. And we can now talk about HABOR anyway, but as long as business banks behave as they behave, the only way to say the only light for many entrepreneurs is precisely HABOR's loans that have to be based on certain programmes of resolution ministries and this is the only way for business owners in Croatia whose credit capacity is very low, capitalisation is very low, to come up with as many favourable funds. Today I said that this risk coefficient that at the moment when... interest is practically 99.9% interest rate is something that does not give Croatian entrepreneurs cheap loans. The only way to do that is through HABOR, however, it is obvious that this government has given up on that concept as well. So these were some suggestions and suggestions, but everything on the trail of what we've been saying all day in this assembly. You should have the courage to take some measures, you should have the courage to admit something, and also... the story doesn't solve any problems. And you can't always like everyone, some things some people like, some people won't, but eventually whether you've worked successfully or not is some financial result that's what it is. And to conclude with what I started with, Croatia unfortunately has 200 thousand jobs, i.e. 5.6 years ago and has a greater public debt net for 70 billion kuna and because of all this together, the HDZ Club cannot support this proposal for a law on the implementation of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94244	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the distinguished representative Slavko Linic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers with their team, colleagues and colleagues. Now, I'm going to try very briefly to give a suggestion that the government will fix the texts with its amendment. I'm starting with Article 18, task force of local self-government. The whole package that we've discussed this week, and which we're about to adopt, threatens local self-government units. I estimate that units of local self-government will not be able to implement the projects launched and will not be able to finance their activities regularly. Therefore, we estimate that this entire package in 2015 turns into a risk of such a rigid definition of the right of debt we will have increased indifference that will primarily endanger companies that operate with local self-government and whether to soften these items in any way. Let's try to understand that we don't have the right to make liquidity worse, that we're going to have a fundamental assumption that someone is going to be able to make a threat. Neither will there be an investment from the local level nor will there be exports that will endanger each other. I repeat, indifference is enormous, large non-payment units of local self-government are now taking away their right of responsibilities. Any non-discipline in 2014 or higher income expenditures you completely deprive them of their right of responsibilities. How will the objects end? So we won't leave the objects unfinished again. Therefore, try to understand that you try to say if, if the suggestion is, there is an imbalance due to a new package of local and regional regulations give them the right to be in charge. That's what I think we could do to just make sure we don't endanger the indifference. Secondly, ha, let's do an article on the 31st guarantee, my people don't have any monetizations, it shows the planning documents we're discussing today. Now that there is no monetization, I personally feel responsible for trusting the Minister of Transport who said that the monetization would be in 2014 and as a minister I allowed the dedicated funds of 60 limes that were for the debts of highways to be deployed 20 for Croatian roads, 20 for the railway. We see that the documents haven't returned it, and there's no monetization, there's no on all these papers. Then I propose to the Ministry of Finance to make a different definition in terms of the credits and the maturity of loans in the Croatian highways, because they can't pay them in part and because of the lack of 0.40 lipes and I think that should be defined and made clear because of the unfulfilled project or how I would say whatever you want, but you can't consider it a due debt, you can't. We took them, and I consider myself responsible for that part that 40 lipes were not taken because I believed a minister who obviously has no intention of realising this project. Then we go to local self-government, that's where you predicted everything about these transitional periods set out in the new regional policy proposal and when we talk about the development index. You didn't predict one thing, that if that law passes, the funds are 6% decentralised, not 12%. What does that mean? if you exclude the city of Zagreb for which you punish everyone else, that all other units of local self-government will appear to you with a request for funds for alignment. Why? Is with 6% believe even the city of Rijeka will not be able to finance the minimum standards that decentralised funds need to secure, we won't. Is what my colleague Shuker said not 6%, but at less amounts, it's the question of whether it's 4.5%. Therefore, you will have a request of 547 if we exempt the city of Zagreb from requests for funds for alignment, you will have it. And you have to assume that the Ministry of Finance can send funds to settle on behalf of the missing decentralised assets on request unless a minimum of this is achieved. Otherwise, you won't give them money, so neither will the activity be financed, so we'll do it. You have to predict that. So the one who doesn't make a minimum, and he doesn't have enough to go out of settlement funds. So I suggest you throw that part in that article. Now a little disappointment, so I was happy to finally respect the findings of the State Audits that speak of their own resources and that our own resources of health care, education, universities, universities are being introduced into the state budget, but I am therefore disappointed with the formulations of 37 and 38, because if you are already introducing your own funds then you still have to introduce some kind of control of spending. But when you use the formulas in Articles 37 and 38, you can either make rules or in the 28th... users can commit to spending discipline. I mean, it can't be in the Execution Act. I can deal with it. Therefore, my people must make the rules. We're trying to get in and out now and no one's going to control it. We simply need to strengthen this discipline is unacceptable again to allow the surplus of our own income to be used for additional payments, to spend money on various projects, and not to be reduced I would say expenditure on regular activity that otherwise burdens the state budget. Therefore, I think that the formulation in Articles 37 and 38 should be simply something more powerful than we have planned. Here's my suggestion for the Ministry to reconsider and perhaps indeed to determine these shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94246	Replica. ... No, no, wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The replica of the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94247	Yes, fellow Linic, the key problem here is that someone thought it was enough to open several positions in the budget, write down some figures and deal with the problem and that this is a more transparent spending of money. In order for that to be the case, it wouldn't be the finding of a state audit as it is, and if some sublegal acts get this problem in terms of parks, as far as state hospitals are concerned, then the show will again be five times bigger than we have now. The more a month's worth of hospitals is far less than their annual plan now. And it certainly should have been resolved, perhaps not by this act, but by some act of the government about the transition, because just because they entered the budget, some things change about both the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. But if the Government has not already made the act, it might be that a colleague of Lalovac installs it into the State Budget Act for the simple reason that the Ministry of Finance protects itself against these political exhibitions, above all, as far as the Ministry of Health, HZZO and state hospitals are concerned again in the budget and these others in the financial plan of HZZO, with this financial plan not being analysed at all. Because practically if we wanted to make transparency on that financial plan what the rest of the funds were, it had to be clearly indicated by each user and by type and structure of costs but if it wasn't done so then it should be prescribed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94248	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94249	I agree, colleague Shuker, for the simple reason that we see that this whole time those who teach our children, learn, teach students, resist the implementation of legal provisions, do not respect the findings of state audits. And that just means that the only strict rules that will be passed will discipline them. Because I don't know how else to figure out the Dean's resistance, the rectors talking about some kind of independence. It's just they're independent just not in finance. In finance, while they are simply financed from tax revenues, everything must be prescribed. That's why I thought it was supposed to be the word "must" to bring the rules and can't be passed. And I forgot something else, but it's better not to burden the minister with it, that new miracle of health reform that speaks of HZZO extraction. Yeah, the state hospitals got into the state budget, all the other hospitals didn't get into county, which is unacceptable, we lose at all, I'd say control of what's going on in health care. You now will have different someone had to explain why the clinical center here is a say Rovinj Hospital or... No, not that Crikvenica or some other people who aren't clinical are in there, not in the county budgets. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's obvious that, absurdly, we're dealing with the State Budget Act because it was supposed to be some sort of act that would be implemented, but apparently, the Minister of Health was too busy moving the prime minister to be on his side in the fight against the minister, so he didn't prepare any documents on the implementation of that. Well, I mean, I didn't mean to suggest that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94250	The final address of Minister Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank the two colleagues that I think of today, to stay so that we might, to ask us to put together a budget and a little bit of that, different than colleagues but we know that it's some very, very difficult, 20 colleagues and the first man that we certainly have different, each has a specific function. So here's another thank you for really thanking you for your debate about this part of the percentage exactly according to the Commission's recommendations, or the directive, that part of the percentage written so far must be transferred to the Fiscal Responsibility Act. That's what we're going to do, right now we're in the making of that law and they said that there, because it's about the fiscal rule that it has to be there and now we're with that law in amendments and it's going to come very soon and there will stand that provision that no longer stands in the provision, because that's according to the directive to tie that percentage there. I also agree with my colleague Linic that we, in fact, did not fully use all this volume of credit for local administration this year, but if we agree that this percentage of 2.5% seems to be around 500 million kuna, if we agree that we can increase the percentage. Now that's, is that 3.5, 4, what that percentage would be, but we can really do it in that part, in that part, and we can accept it. But we'll see, I say until that part of the amendment. And about this part, and these other criteria you've said, we're definitely going to consider with our colleagues at technical level. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94252	Here's my thanks to the minister, thank you all for your colleagues and colleagues. That's where we'll finish today's work. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. Thank you all, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94253	We move on to the final draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, second reading, P.Z. No. 746. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. I find that with 83 votes in favour and 14 against, we have decided that we will discuss amendments to the government. I call on Finance Minister Boris Lalovec to explain Amendment 1 to Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94254	Thank you, Madam Vice President. With respect to the parliamentary debate, the amount is raised, replacing 2.5% to 3% of the overall capacity of units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94255	I'm opening a debate. Only clubs can discuss this. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94256	Thank you very much. Comrades and colleagues, be patient a little longer because this is definitely a black day for local self-government units. Today they were definitely taken 2 billion kunas, we were definitely all processes of decentralisation that took a snail's step in recent years, and this amendment only confirms what we've been doing in this assembly for the past 10 days, one part of the MPs have spoken, and that's that the units of local self-government have been taken 20% of the funds. And from what is this fact confirmed by this amendment? So it is proposed that the quota for borrowing units of local self-government rise from 2.5% to 3% on the basis of original incomes and that what the government and government representatives have been saying for the past 10 days here, and that what we have been saying over the past 10 days here, then the government would have to change the consolidated balance sheet of the state because if you increase someone 0.5% percentage points or 20% potential for borrowing, you have automatically created a presumption of increasing the deficit of a consolidated state for that amount and on that basis you have to change the deficit. Because if you haven't done that, given that the state and the extra budget funds are going to be in debt exactly as much and possibly possibly more, then the logical thing is that this is either done for a technical reason or finally acknowledged that we took 20% of the income from local self-government units. So, the same story applies, so I won't even discuss Amendment 2 or 3, we've already talked about them during the amendment to the state budget. I repeat, definitely a black day for local self-government, someone took it for the right to break such a heavy liquidity or liquidity of local self-government units, someone took it as a right to boast that he gave someone a salary increase, at the same time took 2 billion kuna from someone else's pocket, and therefore the HDZ club cannot support this amendment, regardless of what he is clearly giving more opportunity to local self-government units, but it does not, and neither can we support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94257	I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find that the amendment has been accepted, 79 votes in favour and 15 against. Minister, Amendment number 2 to Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94258	Amendment number 2 is related to the amendment of the Government of the Budget Act, meaning technical nature in.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94259	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please state Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment was accepted, 80 for and 15 against. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94260	Nomotechnical nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94261	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the adoption of Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find that the amendment has been accepted, 77 votes against, 13 against. Amendment No 4 to Article 37
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94262	Also nomotechnical nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94263	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94264	Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, and this amendment 4 to Article 37, paragraph 2 is not in any way no-technical since we first claimed that state hospitals and parks, etc., were included in the state budget, because of increasing transparency, control, etc., funds. However, here it is explained that the above budget beneficiaries will be monitored exclusively on record for the sake of the comprehensiveness of the state budget and its transparency. Now I don't understand how some budget users can have a different status than other budget users in the budget. Mr. Minister, that's why I intervened. I'd rather you delete this, and you can think of whatever you want because you're practically confirming this. With this amendment, the Government has confirmed that the budget is illegal because all those who have positions in the budget are obliged to lead, register in the same way. Therefore, one who entered the treasure can't be a record revenue, can't be a record cost and that's something that's wrongly set up. Something was going to be done, but there was no courage to decide. I even suggest that you better move this amendment 4, 5 I think you'd have a clear situation then, at least you wouldn't confirm that after those amendments to the budget now you're practically confirming that the budget is contrary to the Budget Law. I repeat, all budget users have the same status, no monitoring records in the state budget. There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94265	I'm closing the debate. I am giving amendment number four to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for adoption. I find that the amendment has been accepted 81 for and 17 against. Amendment No 5 to Article 39
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94266	Amendment Yes, we've already discussed it in the Budget Law. [[Intruder Dragica Zgrebec: 38.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94267	I'm opening a debate. Ivan Schuker on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94268	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm really sorry. I think this amendment is humiliating for the academic community, humiliating. Take a look at the explanation, he says "for the above-mentioned budget users, the comprehensiveness of the state budget and its transparency of the achievement and spending of their own income will be monitored exclusively on the basis of the reports delivered on the achievement and consumption of their own revenue". Remember that there was a reaction and a rector of the Zagreb University and others and the dean to the decision to include their own revenues in the budget and then in this way someone practically degrades the entire academic community of the Republic of Croatia. If we want to put someone in the budget then let them have the exact same status as everyone else. Therefore, their revenues are revenues from the state budget, their expenditure is the expenditure of the state budget, based on the Budget Law in no different way. Their salaries are the result of certain collective agreements and other acts brought by universities if they are granted by someone else because they cannot have expenditure beyond that amount granted to them in the budget as well as the smallest budgetary user. Well there are other ministries that have some different incomes, but their expenditures aren't on them saying what it is, just let's just say these revenues can't generally be used for some other things. I repeat, this 4th and 5th article, not to say that in the Law on Budget Implementation, no one has included those genius ideas about the separation of HZZO and the return of state hospitals to the budget, practically by the same criteria as this. I would ask fellow MPs without the intention of calling anyone who is related to science with the Zagreb University to talk about this, because this is the humiliation of those who educate and educate our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94269	Replica, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94270	Thank you. So these two amendments, which are now in a changed form, are essentially amendments that have been made to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, only because we have stated that this is the area of action of the Committee of the Public Institute and Science. And as far as I'm aware, I think all the reactors were on a similar approach to the conversation, and I think they're in principle agreeing with this because otherwise there was a rule on the use of their own funds, which was quite decidently said how they could be used. But on the other hand, someone else can't really determine and take the funds because it's contrary to the independence of the university that gives the constitution, so I think that the academic community in a way is at least this part of us talking about public institutes and science essentially behind this kind of work. No one has objected to the control of funds but they are against not being able to manage their assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94271	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94272	Comrade Boluncic, that's exactly why I said it. This High House has passed the State Budget Act and there is no other story. We may find someone likable and unsympathetic, but when it comes to the budget, it can be carried out exclusively by the Budget Law and by the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. So either it goes in by the law or it doesn't work because this is funny because you can practically now have every budgetary user calling for him to give some kind of report and then be recorded. Look, the state treasury system is something special and there's no room for chubby, there are rules of the game clear. However, it is obvious that one of the most valuable projects in public finances has begun to disintegrate, apparently. But I repeat, this provision is against the law no matter how much it was intended to go into some kind of compromise it is against the law. The Budget Act is a lex specialis of the budget spending law. The constitution defines some other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94273	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Col. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94274	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So our club was dissatisfied with the old formulation that said that the competent ministries could oversee the spending of funds and the collection of funds, and we thought that this formulation was already a certain failure in relation to the idea that incomes, expenditures own up to the state budget because simply the state budget was an act in which each kuna should be held accountable. Now we see a new solution that is even worse than in the original document. So there's no surveillance at all anymore, but now we think the budget is becoming a record I'd say, nothing more than a collection of numbers when it comes to income, the expenditures of individual institutions. What to say about when your budget becomes a record. It has neither the responsibility to collect taxes, its own income, nor to spend, nor to have any control over it. Then I really wonder if we're aware that under pressure, under pressure and academic community and health systems we don't respect international standards, we don't respect national audits, and at the same time we're in an excessive deficit, at the same time. How will you explain that we are fighting deficits, destroying units of local self-government, destroying, that at the same time someone in Croatia can behave however he wants because we will not control it. Do you know what the own incomes of individual health systems, education and some agencies mean? This means that regular funding from tax obligations should be reduced by having their own income, we gave them the right to... But by law, we have to record them as revenues from the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have control over every income of the state budget and you have responsibility, criminal responsibility especially if they are taxes. Here we think no one should answer, no one should be monitored because it's simply not income. And when we talk about the second part of the responsibility for spending, so how are you going to explain that individuals who manage education systems and health systems have twice as much pay, I apologize for receiving, twice as much income as the highest salary of government officials is twice as much because non-intentional revenues are used. They are used to receive various copyright fees, various contracts of action, to have paid... projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only that, but we've introduced it to them as a second income, so they don't even get full tax on such huge incomes. Yeah, I just need to look at the list of receipts in those bodies and then you'll see what it's random consumption, which is, I'd say in a crisis, at a time when the others are forced into discipline and order to talk about simply being able to do whatever they want. Well, I guess we understand that if income and expenditure are entered into the state budget that the simple responsibility must be full, that we must have bodies that will control that responsibility and the entry of those revenues means that tax revenues will not be paid in full for these institutions, they will not, because they have their own income, can earn. And when you're able to channel that extra income into something else even if it's the investment in equipment, in buildings, in anything but development and universities and education. Yeah, we're not gonna let the money spend on individual interests again. Individual interests. And then you fall under the pressure of an academic community that says gentlemen we have autonomy. So no one defends autonomy but when it comes to income if the laws say that their own income, those who have the most financed from the state budget are not autonomy but are part of the state budget and must be controlled. And if the academic community or the health system isn't responsible enough, we don't have machines or buildings or toilets in hospitals, we know that at the Rijeka Hospital what it looks like, but that's why someone's gonna pay off the copyright fees, and we don't want to change that at the time of the severe economic crisis, at the time of the battle for the workplace and at the time when everyone has to be responsible. So for me, it's a complete disappointment because I said we finally respected it, so we included our own revenues in the state budget, and we put control over the controls, and we even said what we couldn't control. Now it's not even that anymore, we're saying it's a record. But why do we do it, so what do we think we're gonna cheat on someone? Who are we going to cheat on, a state audit? Well, they'll write you that the records don't comply with the budget regulations. Who are we going to cheat on Europe? Who are we going to cheat on, citizen? Well, that's terrible. This government under the influence of those who do not want to settle accounts is withdrawing and giving up essentially what is their legal obligation. So I don't think that it really should have been any effort, and now you're going to be burdening yourself with additional records from the Ministry of Finance, no one's going to control it, and it's going to be a waste of time and review. Because what will they determine? Unintentional spending, waste money, throw away in the right sense when we need to save and no one is responsible because it's just records. Therefore, I think that this proposal, then, of the very law on the implementation of the state budget, is a question of what it is for us. Because in this law, you give up income and expenditure control, which I don't think we can defend nor the autonomy of the university, nor would I say by working responsible in the health care system. Simply once again, the capitulation of politics in the body control and control of resources at the time we cut others, we take others and when we seek savings and responsibility, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94275	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94276	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Linic, although I do not agree with the good part of what you have said, especially regarding the academic community, etc., but you have led me to report, to mention a serious problem which is on the trail of something you said, which is leaving part of the health care system, namely those health institutions owned by the state, which are clinics and clinical hospitals in one system, and the separation of the rest of the health system into another system in HZZO. In fact, when we talk about real life without getting into all the other finessees, a whole series of problems will be created that were obviously not thought at all. So today, December 2nd, we will bring the state budget and say that from the 1st of January, so in real life all about two weeks to Christmas holidays, etc., a completely different approach to the financing of clinics and clinical hospitals should be made possible. Just one example. Since they are now in such a status, any change in one hospital procurement plans will require actually a parliamentary procedure because it is a change of budget. Therefore, something that happens several times over the year in every hospital because it cannot be predicted and life carries new circumstances will now require a completely different approach. I don't know if you thought of that. Obviously something else will happen, something in half, so HZZO will still actually pay off money to hospitals, get hospital invoices, accept those invoices or not, dispute those invoices etc., and only formally will it be led somewhere else under quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94277	Thank you. Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94278	It is evident that even this change called HZZO extraction from the State Treasury is not done properly, because if the clinical centres have entered the state budget and there will be a relationship between the state budget and the HZZO then all the county hospitals and all the other specialist hospitals for which the founders of the county should be in county budgets and a relationship between the regional authorities and the HZZO should be established because simply what is the state level is slowly mirrored in the local environment. Simply that part is not done, and that means it will always be a problem how as founder to close all the dubiosis in certain health institutions for reasons that apparently HZZO will not cover all investments, let alone all expenditures because it will stick to a certain standard, and at that moment you will see how many problems will arise. Because at the same time the funds needed to finance any institution, whether from the state budget or from regional self-government will not be enough. Therefore, we entered in 2015 with a lot of, a lot of newspapers, and we didn't work them out at all, nor did we process it with budget holders, meaning regional and local self-government units. So there's going to be a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94279	I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment was accepted with 80 votes for, 1 abstention and 14 against. Ministers, we now have two amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Amendment No 1 to Article 37
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94280	Amendment number 1 is not accepted since it has already been consumed through the government amendment that we have already discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94281	Walter Boluncic, on behalf of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94282	Yeah, that's what we said before that they were involved...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94283	The amendment has been withdrawn. And Amendment 2 to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94284	Same as Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-27-0.u94285	And the second amendment has been withdrawn. That concludes the debate on the amendments. I am giving the adoption of the draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that with 82 votes for and 15 against the Law on the implementation of the State budget, together with the amendments adopted.
