ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77792	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you can put it this way combined or complex with regard to these two issues that are very important for Croatian society, I am also looking for a break, therefore both in connection with the Designer and in connection with the transport strategy of the Republic of Croatia which is nowhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77793	You're looking for a break for the same reasons as the HDZ Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77794	That's right. And Mr. Vuksic, the constructor, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77795	Let's stick around, you asked for a break for the club like the HDZ Club asked for. So, the Transport Connecting Strategy. Honorable representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here, you've raised your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77796	... National minorities, since today is the Day of Remembrance of Srebrenica Victims and to take this break to remember, share the flowers of Srebrenica and remember these great tragedies. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77797	Okay. Hope Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77798	Yes, we have a request from the Club regarding the Designer, but since the topic and traffic strategies have emerged in the meantime, we want to get involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77799	What would you like to do for five more minutes? Please don't! Choose on behalf of the club what's important, one topic in a situation like this. Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77800	Well, we'll look every half hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77801	You used your right to a club in this situation and that's it. No more interested. I'm giving a 10 minute break at 9.45, we're back to work. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I suggest we go in order. Honored representative Branko Vukšić on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament, related to the strategy for traffic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77803	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Three days ago here in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed the proposal, the new proposal of the Labour Act, then it was said that a solution was offered, a compromise that is best for all three parties, workers, employers and the state. However, we heard in the debate that no one with this proposal of the Labour Act is satisfied. How illusory it is to expect that the new Labour Act that reduces labour rights will benefit the working atmosphere in Croatia and how much this Labour Law will improve the working conditions of workers and, let's say, the situation that is happening these days in the Engineer Engineering where workers are trying to get salaries, the pay gaps even from 2012. However, the laws allow the employer to avoid paying workers for years, to avoid paying salaries and to delay the procedures prescribed by law for years. It's all about the state helping him all the time. 28.1.2013 opened a pre-departure procedure, workers, former workers are not creditors of a pre-departure settlement and according to the law of their demand as well as current salaries have priority in paying, but there are no sanctions for non-compliance. On 27.11.2013, a first-degree settlement of the Commercial Court in Split was made on the conclusion of a pre-profit settlement, but as all the creditors filed complaints, the same Judge of the Commercial Court in Split returned everything to the retrial. And what workers do now, what workers can do, this process can take years, so long as workers probably don't die. Because of the failure of the rule of law, because every time there's a problem in a company that's not owned by a state, the government tells me there's nothing we can do about it. Then it is Nietzsche's that the state is a lie, which will be true for citizens of the Republic of Croatia if the state cannot protect citizens, which Croatian courts will if the courts are tried for years and if the proceedings should be completed every time they return to the first-degree court. Workers of the Designers were forced to occupy the attention of the Croatian public, to occupy the attention of the Croatian government, to occupy the attention of Croatian courts to the hunger strike, which is opposed by trade unions, because they do not support that workers are disrupting their health and endangering their own lives. However, we politicians seem to be allowing and dealing lightly with the problems of workers who did not get paid in 2012, who did not receive several salaries in 2013 and who are paying their salaries irregularly in 2014. So I appeal to the government, appeal to the courts as well as to the courts as you say, it must not affect the courts to resolve cases within reasonable deadlines, but this government has no courage to reform the judiciary, the judiciary, and therefore today we have procedures that decide on the fate of workers who last for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77804	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Unconventional for this kind of approach to debates, I have to say that the thematics that are presented in these cases are at least for discussion, and we don't have a business opportunity to discuss these more difficult ones right now. Let's confirm or... in a democratic debate and that's the problem of taking a stand like this. A team more if we are in favour, and we must advocate in the Croatian Parliament for the rule of law, not arbitrarily political thinking. Now let's go to another topic, in the interest of club representatives. HDZ club and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77805	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club asked for a break so that the Croatian public, and primarily the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, warned that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure would refer to a public debate on the draft strategy for traffic development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, which does not valorise, does not plan to build the most important transport projects that would contribute to the extraction of Croatia's final soup from transport isolation. Also, I am taking this opportunity, Mr. President, to remind you that the HDZ Club was directed to the President of the Croatian Parliament exactly 750 days ago by the motion for a resolution on the principles of transport integration of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County as a function of establishing the constitutional legal equality of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If by any chance the Croatian Parliament had discussed this resolution, the proposal for a strategy that started in public debate would probably be different. Since then, in the past 750 days, the Croatian Parliament has discussed over 1250 what laws, decisions, reports, etc., and here we have not had time to discuss this resolution which, as I said, would certainly contribute to the different text of the said strategy. In the HDZ club, we are concerned about the lack of agreement, the inability of the government to properly value the construction of those traffic routes and projects that would contribute to the extraction of the southernmost part of Croatia from traffic isolation. Namely, it also concerns the government's wandering into finding a solution. First of all, at the beginning of this government's term, the bridge was from the leader of the Kukuriku coalition called the illusion of fools, and then it started with different variations. From the road corridor through Neum space to possible tunnels under Neum or below... bay or ferry solution was intended by this government to connect the south of Croatia. Finally, the government, I would say, has made it easy to decide on its behalf that decision to link Croatia's far south with the European Commission, which it has indeed done by making a pre-study of transport isolation, which, by document and by the European Commission, has established that the Peljeski bridge is the most favourable way of extracting the south of Croatia from traffic isolation. Therefore, we were even more surprised by the proposal for a strategy that does not view the Pelješki bridge as a final solution to the extraction of the far south of Croatia from transport isolation and the integration of two separate territories of the Republic of Croatia, but requires further consideration and evaluation and other possibilities of transport integration of the south of Croatia. This is surprising to us by the fact that over 20 projects that we at the HDZ Club support have been established in this same strategy, but for which projects do not apply the same criteria as for the Pelješki bridge because these projects are not required for questioning, making previous studies, analysis, etc., etc. On the other hand, it is unacceptable for us not to consider in the next 15 years the construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik, so highway A1 although this road is part of the Adriatic Ionian Corridor which connects the eastern Adriatic coast of Trieste from Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Ploč, then via Albania to... in Greece and makes, therefore, an integral part of the European transport routes, which the Ministers of Transport established in October 2013 in.... From all of this, Mr. President, we wanted to, knowing that this strategy will probably come to the end of this term in the Parliament, we wanted to warn the Croatian public, and primarily as I told you citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County to join this public debate, to highlight the importance and importance of these two capital transport projects for the south of Croatia, and I would say about Croatia as well because for us in HDZ, the Peljeski bridge is an expression of transport sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, Croatia will not be traffic-supervised in the full sense of the word until it connects two separate parts along the road. So, we are really embarrassed by the fact that the strategy for the transport development of the Republic of Croatia after the European Commission said in its pre-study that the Pelješki bridge is the most favourable solution, it is not said about this same strategy that the Pelješki bridge is listed as a traffic direction, as a transport project, as a road project that will connect two parts of Croatia. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77806	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would like to say immediately before the other two clubs are included, Honorable Representative Branko Bačić, I think that in a privileged way you have engaged in a public debate on the strategy proposal because you have just said that the government has set out in a public debate strategy. So you gave a good answer why it wasn't a priority to discuss the resolution your club suggested. There are rank acts we should respect. Of course, I don't pollomise with the valuable courts that you've said. On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77807	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't even know what you've assigned me from these two points to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77808	You asked for a strategy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77809	Behind the constructor, since the constructor is part of a construction operation that builds roads in the Republic of Croatia can actually be said to be about some point that could enter here two minutes about the constructor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77810	You surgeons can connect a lot of things and connect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77811	We can, we can if we can sew. And I know how to say this together. So as far as the constructor is concerned, it is clear that the state and the legal system are not functioning even though punishment or sanctions have been imposed in criminal law for those who do not pay salaries. Now where are those who are here to say in a high tone euphorically about the introduction into criminal law of a measure that will punish and sanction those who do not pay their wages? There's nothing, nothing, nothing. And now..., so what counterpart Bačić was saying about the Transport Strategy and the absence of the Transport Strategy clear and to say concrete measures linking the South of Croatia, the Pelječki Bridge, and still on the highway south we talked about some Adriatic-Ionian initiative, transport links to Montenegro and Albania, but unfortunately this government does not listen to the EU either, the European Commission which has clearly determined that the Peljeski Bridge is the best way to bridge and connect not only Croatia, but the entire territory of the EU. For God's sake, Croatia is a 28th full-fledged member and the EU's integration of such a single facility would also be the final integration of the entire EU to the greatest benefit of the Republic of Croatia. The traffic strategy that came out of the ministry's pages is not in public debate. If the pages of the Ministry of Transport are a public debate, then I don't know what it is. Therefore, it is good for the Croatian Parliament to start a public debate and I think it is commendable and desirable, why not. After all, we'll have a chance to talk about the Traffic Strategy, but this strategy has no vision either, and actually no strategy because it only determines the existing state, it concreteizes it and I don't see anything new. And the strategy would have to settle in a vision, and then after the vision, a strategy is written. But here, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care. So when the transport strategy comes on the agenda, we will then be more comprehensive, but we must immediately address the objections given what we have seen so far that it is only a number of current conditions in all modes of transport and transport and transport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia without vision and without a strategy how to connect the south of Croatia. And we have been talking so much about rail traffic so far that I don't think it makes any sense that we're going to do it again on another occasion because the railway is actually a railway strategy in this term of the Croatian Government is the destruction of Croatian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77812	Thank you, Your Honor, I expect you to use the opportunity at the constitutional stop of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament to organise round tables for public discussion of the strategy. I hope you'll invite me and the others to those round tables. And now on behalf of the HNS club Petar Baranovic, also on the strategy. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed colleagues continue at the plenary session. Before moving to work on the agenda, respected representative Branko Vuksic is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77814	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues two days ago we discussed the Labour Act and these days, 10 days already we see the agony of the Workers of the Designer. Construction workers decided because they do not have the help of the state, the legal system, to go on a hunger strike Monday. So in order to warn the public about government failure and the legal system, we're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77815	Dear Representative Branko Bačić. Thank you, too. And this is what we contribute to the public debate as well as all the views of clubs related to this topic because it is not on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. I now ask the respected representative Nedzad Hodzic about today's reminder of the victims of Srebrenica on behalf of the National Minorities Club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77849	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So today I'm going to be on a whole other but old and sad subject. It is July 11th, the day when we remember the victims of the Srebrenica tragedy, the day when we express our piety to the victims of genocide and the day when we express our condolences to the members of the family of the Srebrenica victims. Today, Srebrenica will bury the remains of 175 victims found and identified over the past year. Finally, after 19 years of full pain, their peace of mind will be found by members of their families. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although each death is a special tragedy, we must not forget that the victims of Srebrenica were killed on special... In the protected zone of the United Nations in which the Dutch battalion was supposed to guarantee the safety of the civilian population, men were separated from women and then individual or group shot or otherwise... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] killed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're 8 grand 372. Srebrenica is a small town and let's imagine that all July 1995 victims were not killed in several. Let's imagine that only one man was shot every day, today 19 years after the start of that hypothetical shooter, 6 thousand 935 silver victim and the last 8372 victim in line would come somewhere in June 2018. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am aware of the morbidity of the way I speak in this House today, and therefore I apologize both to you and to the families of the Srebrenica victims and to the families of all innocent victims around the world, but I feel the need to encourage all of us to think about what war is and how much of the human tragedy that war carries on us. The silver tragedy was the point of war destruction on these premises in the period '91-'95. a year ago in which more than a hundred and 10,000 people died in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in our country, Croatia. And I'm going to continue in the morbid tone, figure out how long that hypothetical shooting of a man would last a day in Srebrenica or another city, in Srebrenica or in hundreds of other small or large cities, however, the result of that account is death, fellow human death, human death. From the Silver Tragedy, neither Europe nor the world has learned any lesson, in the last 19 years in which we have not been able to find any Srebrenica victims in the world, unfortunately all the people on the planet and the shame of politics, that is, the work that we are doing has happened to hundreds of new wars in which millions are numbering new human sacrifices. It's hard to count them all but let's just remember some of whom we're witnessing today: Syria, Iraq, Ukraine, the Middle East and death are all... Reports say three teenagers were killed on one side and one teenager burned alive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which side was the result of four new terrible human deaths, four new grieving mothers, grieving fathers, brothers, and sisters. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must ask ourselves, colleagues in the European Parliament and colleagues in parliaments around the world why and until when. The answer that is called interest is we all know but we will have to ask ourselves and others over and over again why this or that interest is more important than human life and until the murderers of their children are our heroes and our children's murderers are their heroes. We must ask ourselves what is the role of the democratic world that we ourselves belong to in the common human tragedy to which we bear witness. We must ask ourselves whether it is not hypocritical and loudly advocated for fundamental human rights and freedoms and at the same time, in silence, to witness the incredible destruction of the human race in which the most developed democracies we ourselves seek are not innocent at all. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as a pitetist to Srebrenica victims, Croatian defenders run an ultra marathon from Vukovar to Srebrenica, ride cycling routes from Belgrade to Potocar, organise convoys of peace, peaceful bypasses, memorial gatherings across Europe and the world, all with one goal. Therefore, I call upon you, finally, to send a message from the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia about the senselessness of war, to appeal for peace, and to join the basic goal of all these events, that the tragedy of Srebrenica should never be forgotten so that no one can be forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77850	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good to remember the victims of Srebrenica and other innocent victims in the world. I'm confident that I'm sharing your position and that we can cry out and it hasn't happened again. We have compassion for the victims of Srebrenica and other innocent victims in the world of all wars. Of course, we feel for our loved ones as well as our national minority Bosniaks. That's why we've kind of marked this in a dignified way. Thank you very much. Dear representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77852	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u77853	Thank you very much. And all the congratulations on the oath. And good wishes to work with us according to the oath. [[Applause.]] We will now prevent the established order of the agenda: Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation No 606/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on mutual recognition of safeguards in civil matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 680. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines first and second readings,... I'm sorry, it's my... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, I had on the table the text of the law that I read, and I apologize that was a done item on the agenda yesterday. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry again. So, it is up to you: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 677. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? ... Where's the deputy minister? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I respect the circumstances that led him out, I respect that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A man really came out, then we can go to clubs, we can go to clubs. Thank you, we'll give between clubs to address the applicant's representative with an opening explanation. Respected representatives of the club of independent representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. They're gone. I don't know, I wasn't questioning their reasons. Here's Mr. Deputy Minister of Culture, the esteemed Berislav Shipus. Please present on behalf of the Proposer. ... Don't get complicated. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84754	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, a draft proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods with the Final Proposal for the Law is proposed to amend the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods and to regulate the following issues. The process of identifying the properties of cultural goods and the process of establishing the end of the properties of cultural goods will be uniformly uniform. It would limit the right of first purchase in favour of the Republic of Croatia, the county, cities and municipalities in respect of buildings within protected cultural historical units which are not individually protected as cultural goods and thus apply this right only to buildings older than 50 years. The immovable cultural well-being owned by a religious community which is intended for a religious purpose, which has invested funds from the state budget and the budget of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, will be excluded from the application of the provisions on the establishment of legal publishing rights ensuring the recovery of funds invested in the case of sales. The provisions on the award of concessions with the Law on concessions will be brought into line and the time limit on which a concession on cultural goods can be granted from 50 to 99 years longer will be extended. The procedure will also be regulated in the case where different legal regimes exist, the concession authorities, the establishment of rights of construction, the right of service and the lease of cultural goods and other properties which are part of a particular project and the content of concession fees will be specified in the event that the concession includes the right of construction and the right of service. A way of setting out specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods in the process of issuing a local permit and building permit will also be arranged to establish specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods for the construction of simple and other buildings and works within a cultural historical unit for which no construction permit is required. Furthermore, the issue of prior authorisation for actions that could cause changes in cultural goods, i.e. that could undermine the integrity of cultural goods, will be regulated. The competent authority shall also be governed in the event that an investor or a contractor takes action or on cultural goods for which a building permit, prior approval or confirmation of the main project is required, or if he takes action or procedure on a culturally good anti-building permit, prior approval or confirmed main project. Monitoring of the transport of movable cultural goods will also be introduced by introducing registers of traders and other natural and legal persons carrying out the activity of transport to mobile cultural goods and records of those persons on the purchase and sale, with a view to data collection and the determination of the order of purchase and sale, in order to prevent the illegal conduct of traffic on movable cultural goods. The composition and way of appointment of the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods will be established and all other infringement provisions will be regulated. Finally, the law will, of course, comply with the Construction Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84755	Thank you very much, Deputy. We have replicas of your exposure. Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84756	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister. Not wanting to criticize either the President of the Parliament or the Deputy Minister for this initial awkwardness and stupidity related to this point, I have to say first that it may not be a reflection of what I'm about to say, but it has little to do with it, and it also has to do with the fact that the club that was supposed to perform first did not find it necessary or to report that giving up on it but simply did not show up those who applied for the speech on this subject and it seems to me that this actually reflects our relationship with culture. The relation of all of us to culture and the relationship to how important we feel that culture is. However, I have made it clear to me, first of all, that I should ask one question to the honourable Deputy Minister about what he has said, which is why Article 22, which now appoints the President and the members of the Cultural Goods Council, under this new proposal, exclusively the Minister of Culture, as opposed to the current law, when the Minister, or the Minister appointed the President and the 3 members, but the others were in the position of members and director of the Croatian Restaurant Institute, the Director of the Croatian State Archives, the Director of the National and University Library, etc., etc. It's just another proof for me that rulings want to completely master everything, so the ministers in their portfolios will name everything, have control over everything, but of course they bear responsibility and we all need to be aware that they're carrying full responsibility for all this that's happening today, for all the failures and all the really wrong moves that are taking place. We just need everyone to be aware that the government, and now they have absolute government, so... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84757	Time's up, Your Honor. Do you want to respond to the replica "respected"? No, I don't. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's basically more of a question than a replica. A conservative elaborate is being introduced, is it a document that will be produced within the conservatory system, a restaurant or will it be some new document for which some companies will of course have the power to produce it so that it will be a new cost, so that it will appear in the restoration process itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84759	Do you want to respond to a replica? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister, Berislav Shipush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84760	Thank you, Mr. President. So that the conservative lab will have to work but only for specialized natural and legal persons who will have to make it, so it won't be intended to say so for a wide area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84761	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to submit a report? No, no one answered the word. We're going to open a debate, we're opening up the debate by the representatives' clubs. We have already said that there is no Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin on behalf of the club, so they lose the right to talk about this topic. The second club is SDP in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Đurđica Plančić. Here you go, fellow Plancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84762	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. I don't think it's necessary to describe and discuss the value of Croatian cultural goods and the importance of the fundamental law that we protect and try to preserve our national treasure because I am convinced that we are all fully aware of it here. So I will immediately move on to the specific topic we are discussing today. There is yet another amendment to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods already in our term of office. This suggests that the legislator is constantly trying to improve the law, make it as lifeless as possible, and prescribe as many procedures as possible to protect cultural goods and to make their protection as effective and effective as possible. On the other hand, it seeks to facilitate the placing of these goods into economic function, which is certainly of great interest to each unit of local self-government and state as a whole. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are primarily in line with the law on concessions, the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning, but some other issues which have been shown in practice insufficiently or inadequately arranged. Let us go in order, these changes and additions will balance the process of identifying the properties of cultural goods with the process of determining the end of that quality. The rights of the first purchase will be freed from buildings within protected cultural and historical units which are not individually protected and which are not over 50 years old, thus facilitating and speeding up the traffic of properties that do not have a greater cultural and historical value. The obligation to establish legal responsibilities in the event of investment in state, county or local budget funds is exempt from cultural goods owned by religious communities if they serve a religious purpose, since this obligation has not proved to be good and to cross the religious community into the use of budgetary resources. The law is complemented by new articles that regulate the surveillance of the traffic of movable cultural goods, which so far has not been arranged in such a way as to introduce a register of persons carrying out traffic on movable cultural goods and are prescribed to keep records of the sequence of purchases and sales, all in order to prevent illegal trade in those goods. In this context, it has been observed that in practice it has not revived the provision of a applicable law under which the transport of cultural goods can only be carried out by specialised legal and physical persons, so this traffic will also be able to be carried out by persons who are not specialised in this activity. Although the law is already in line with the Law on concessions, it has been observed that some of the situations in practice have not been solved well enough. In the event that a wider project shows the need to give a concession on cultural goods with the right to build, the right to service or real estate is leased by the agreement of different concession providers under this proposal, it will be possible to arrange mutual relations and conclude single concession agreements, and the concession fee will also include compensation for the right of construction or service. The time limit on which a concession can be given on cultural goods is extended. This question has been resolved differently by special laws, for example. The Law on Maritime and Marine Ports provides for a longer period of time, so this situation may pose an obstacle to the implementation of projects when real estate is in different or double status. The law on construction and the Law on spatial regulation in the procedure of issuing a local and construction permit provides for the establishment of specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods, and for the issue of prior authorisation for procedures on those facilities. Therefore, the term conservatory elaborate is now defined in line with these specific regulations, and the obligations and procedures of investors are more detailed when accessing construction procedures on those goods, especially when construction works are carried out that do not require a building permit. What I would specifically single out is an additional and more detailed arrangement of the handling of the competent authorities in the event that the investor or contractor take the work without building documents or against the same which is intended to spot such action. The amendment of the law regulates the composition of the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods, and infringements are reorganised and comply with the Criminal and Violation Act. In view of the above, the fact that the proposed amendments and additions bring about an improvement in the current SDP law supports its adoption. And lastly, I'm going to say a few sentences about my own local experience. I come from the island of Hvar with a rich cultural heritage of which even three phenomena are listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List, the Old Town field with the narrow center of the city, the Pučka procession for the Cross and Hvar lace of agava. In my performance as Head of the Local Self-Government Unit, I had the opportunity to experience the implementation and effects of this law in practice and I conclude that we have a very extensive and comprehensive law but that we still have a lot of problems and failures in its application. From the inertness and avoidance of the conduct of competent conservation departments, the guessing of individuals, the indetermination of the consequences of the devastation, and in particular the lack of coordination of different competent authorities in the control and prevention of the devastation of cultural goods. I therefore use the opportunity and appeal to the esteemed representatives of the ministry to make additional efforts to ensure that the law is consistently and effectively implemented in practice, that the culture that took place in the previous years and which unfortunately continues on the protected cultural good Fortress of the Castle of Petra Hektorović in Stari Grad or the one that is now present at Cipiko Tower in Kaštel, which although different examples of inefficient law enforcement can be seen, no longer repeats. I sincerely hope that the determined destruction of illegal construction in Kaštel will be a clear message to all unreasonable investors who engage in similar ventures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84763	Thank you, too, Your Honor. First of all, I'd like your attention. The chairperson of the Legislative Committee shall inform the members of the Legislative Committee that today, 11 July 2014 at 12:00, the 91st session of the Committee on Legislatives in the Chamber of Stjepan Radic, number 133, will be held on the agenda as well as received by the members of the Committee. Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84764	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. We have the conclusions of the two Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Culture that this law must not go into emergency procedures. To date, it is unclear whether this law on emergency procedures is in the first reading or even in the second reading. Do we have the board's conclusions and we have an existing voting agenda and this law is announced by emergency procedure, although it is really not clear to anyone in the Committee on Legislatives or in the Committee on Science, Education and Culture why. Why? That's the first principle thing. The second principle is that this is the fourth if I am not mistaken for amending and supplementing the law in the term of office of this government. The whole thing's been in the law since '99. The year has experienced 7 changes and additions. Let's just sum up these changes and additions that have been going on since 2012, we've already had almost half the new law. Why haven't the Ministry of Culture yet succeeded in 2.5 years to draw up any complete law other than the Croatian Foundation Act, which has not yet been revived in 2.5 years? I also understand the need to bring the law into line with certain other legal acts adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Since I've worked for a long time in the Department of Heritage Protection, I'm always a little skeptical when the Law on the Protection of Cultural Protection agrees with the Construction Act. I just have a professional deformity that makes my alarm go off right away. It's the same thing we want to say. And I am particularly sorry that here in this law, the concession is treated as the only example of the economic use of cultural heritage and completely disregards the unanimously adopted Strategy for the economic use of cultural heritage, which was adopted unanimously in 2011. First of all, we can thank the completely incompetent position that has been primarily in charge of the protection of cultural heritage for the last two years. Completely incompetent. So in 2.5 years, the strategy adopted unanimously has not been applied in any sentence. And it is this strategy that gives the basis for how cultural heritage can be preserved and at the same time economically used because the fact that the existence of cultural heritage actually defends investment. Because if you don't invest and renew in one way or another, it will fail under the influence of time and that strategy prescribes how. At the same time, it is the basis for the procurement of European Union funds for the restoration of cultural heritage for individual projects, regardless of the fact that there has been a special item of one million kuna in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the preparation of these projects for the past two years, according to our findings, no such project has been prepared in 2.5 years, but is being prepared for the implementation of the 2010 Jusuf Mašković Han project. We're glad that at least that was realized. Now we can go to the law changes and additions. He pointed out well to the respected academic Reiner, so you now have a situation that the Council for Cultural Goods, which is defined in law as the main body for the Crucial Decisions, has nine members. In that council, the minister or minister now appoints a president and three members. So no variant can have an absolute majority but arguments, it is necessary to convince the other members of the council coming from the relevant state institutions, the State Archives, the Croatian Restaurant Institute, the National University Library, among other things, to convince that a decision should be made by majority vote. That provision is lifted and we say that the minister has appointed both the president and all eight members. Why? So what does the Croatian Restaurant Institute do, the institution that has the largest tradition in Southeast Europe, of such institutions? What is the Croatian State Archives, the most traditional institution in Southeast Europe that deals with this activity? So what do these people have to say about the heritage issue? After all, it is funny because the minister, or the culture minister, also participates in the selection of these directors of these institutions. They are here to protect their presence with a specific heritage, whether it's an archival structure, whether it's an old library building, etc. He was also a representative of the protection of natural heritage and the environment, precisely with the desire to connect, corporateism that we have in many places in Croatia, natural and cultural heritage, the right example for this is the old city..., Mrs Plancic will know, one synergy of nature and cultural action of man in history can be further.... We really don't think that's necessary, and if we happen to be lucky that this law is still in the first reading we'll insist on these changes. At the same time, they say in this law that concessions can be given exclusively from this law if required by the Law on Strategic Investments of Croatian Projects. What would that mean? Because according to everything that's been proposed here, one possibility of a discretionary political decision is opening up, and that's bad. The criteria for removing the status of cultural goods shall be taken away from the Council for Cultural Goodness and shall be transferred to a lower level, to conservation departments with an explanation that it wishes to level the practice. If the practice wanted to be even, first of all thoughts about individual objects not individually protected as cultural goods but objects located in protective units, then all of this should have been transferred to the council and not left to the conservatory department, I can now say any city, in Dubrovnik, for example, regardless of how much I appreciate these colleagues, to decide whether a single facility within the Dubrovnik Walls will collapse. Because within the Dubrovnik Walls there are only a few cultural goods that are individually protected, all others are protected as a whole, which means that according to this Conservatory Department of Dubrovnik can decide to level the terrain on the Dubrovnik desert and if we parallelize it with the already prepared Law on the Protection and Conservation of Dubrovnik Walls, there can give permission to build. Is that predicting this law? And he says that these... can regulate the construction of certain small objects for which no building permit is required within protected units. Very dangerous. In addition, regarding the firstborn in the core, we think that the intensities are positive in these amendments and the additions to the law. The only way to make the whole story easier for citizens is if they can go one step further, let's say our distinguished colleague Jerolimov pointed out, that very often citizens and very long wait for information, either from the municipality, or from the county, and some time from the ministry itself, are long waiting for those bodies to show whether they are interested in the first purchase of a particular cultural goods or an object that is not individually culturally well, and is over 50 years old and located in a protected core. So this should be automated if there is no indication within 30 days that the state administration body is not considered interested in the ransom. In addition to national councils, I think it would be much better to include representatives of professional associations, such as ICOMOS, IKROM, Croatian Restaurator's Society, if the directors of these institutions who have left the council want to be relieved in some way. The Ministry of Culture, according to the strategy I have already mentioned, must make a list of cultural goods for the concession because all cultural goods in the concession cannot go. So whatever you put here 50 to 200 years old some cultural good can do it, some cultural good that simply by nature things won't be able to. We think it is much more instructional and it is prescribed in this strategy that the competent services that have prepared the digital register of cultural goods whose purpose is to see through the web every citizen or investor on which cataract and in which space is culturally well. Before he goes into investment, before he starts preparing projects, so that he doesn't have a surprise, it's crucial to make such a list, where the ministry, as far as I'm aware, has done nothing for 2.5 years. In addition, when the first purchase is realised, who of the ministry of culture checks whether the individual property that was to go to the first purchase, or cultural good of real estate was sold at that price and those conditions declared to the ministry, county or municipality. Is that the price the real estate seller, the owner of a culturally good property, asked the ministry, the municipality and the county, or perhaps a smaller one in the final. In this case, we don't have the mechanisms to check, and we should. What's open, about and under discussion for the conservatory elaborate. It states here that the conservatory elaborate will be used in certain cases, but don't let the conservatory elaborate be completely differentiated by becoming a kind of racket towards anyone who wants to do something. The conservatory elaborate makes sense for specially protected units and a particularly complex cultural good type of Sibenik cathedral. The creation of a conservative lab for anything will lead to the fact that the work will stand, that there will not be enough professional people to have these conservative elaborate devices or that it will profit from certain private companies for which I would gladly keep the reserve in their complete expertise. Therefore, it would be a good thing to fix that too. With regard to the transport of individual cultural goods. You could have introduced into this law the obligation to seal private metal detectors at the border of the Republic of Croatia. It is the biggest source of problems for illicit trade in individual cultural goods. The biggest robbery of individual cultural goods takes place in the archaeology segment because it is the hardest thing to prove afterwards that it was brought out of the Republic of Croatia. Because archaeological findings have never been recorded, signed and investigated to the end. Bringing in a meter of detectors that are not on the border supervised and there is no legal obligation to seal them open an enormous possibility of robbing archaeological sites. It would be the best protection much better than opening up the possibility of listing who's doing it. Those who are listed to do so are mostly trying to work legally. The biggest procedure and robbery takes place under the table in the smuggling of unauthorized metal detectors and the issue of inspection. The key issue of the inspection and what Mrs. Plancic said was that the Ministry of Civil Engineering does not respect the solutions of the Ministry of Culture's inspection which says that something needs to be torn down or put into the original state. The possibility of implementing these solutions was to be introduced here, and in the next budget of the Ministry of Culture, an item of the means provided for to ensure it. It would then be a real step forward, so we will closely monitor the development of situations related to this emergency procedure, first reading or second reading when it becomes clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84765	You certainly know the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the established agenda of the respected colleague, so read in the agenda which status has this bill. Honorable representative Igor Coleman on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Parliament. Excuse me, we have a replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Excuse me, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84766	Well, here's the esteemed president, fellow Mesic. It's exactly what you said you understood this matter well given the work you were doing. In a case, I've had opportunities to convince myself and participate in projects like a leading city. The attitude of the ruling to culture is, in fact, expressed in the state budget, so that we don't need to talk about it much, and that's all very expensive about this law amending the law, or what you're saying is that we should work this whole thing out a little bit more together, take a closer look at this issue, and probably even work on this amendment to the law. You said that citizens are waiting for long-term information, decisions, solutions. I'll say not just citizens. It's a lot of times being local self-government. The preservation of cultural goods often becomes a protection under quotes. Because, you know, if something is limited, if something is said to be kept, then it is necessary to provide funds especially for some of the facilities that are owned or owned by several owners. The other thing that's real, and you were saying that it's really hard to do something when it comes to a situation. You've got a situation on the ground that you've got an object that's protected in front of your eyes and there's nothing you can do about it. Should this law provide answers to these questions and give solutions to how, how to do this, how to solve it. Or the situation where someone buys some real estate on whose part is once a protected facility, he builds a pitcher's lab, a new particle, does what he planned there. This stays on the side, etc. And of course, who's always to blame? It's always the local leaders. Here's the answer to whether it's possible by law to define it a little differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84767	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84768	Yes, it is possible to define it by law differently. The existing law prescribes the obligations of the owner. So we should apply more strictly the measures of the existing law, that's one option. Another possibility is the possibility of expropriation, the institution of expropriation and the appointment of the so-called so-called ". temporary custodian. It was done in several cases in Croatia. In particular, the institute was applied to cultural goods that had hundreds and more owners. Let's just say Gaspina's mill in Solin is such an example for you. You just didn't know who you were gonna make him take care of the facility. A temporary guardian may be a city and a municipality. It's the town of Solin at Gashpa's mill. Where, then, a temporary custodian takes action to preserve that good or urgent action so as not to pose a threat, or fall, etc. And in the end, he takes the responsibility and the mastery of that facility. So that's one possibility that you could go further into working it out. The problem is with this obvious, you have the right to really wait a long time sometimes. The problem is still for the citizens because they can't get into land books if they don't finally get that indication. And then that problem escalates. I also know your involvement in your city for the protection of cultural heritage, the promotion of cultural heritage, the protection of archival buildings and what you have done on the protection and religious objects that have the status of cultural goods so that I am pleased to see these specific problems that arise in this legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84769	Thank you very much. Now, if you'll excuse my colleague Igor Coleman. Now on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Assembly, the position on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84770	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Of course I accept your apology, it happens when there's a lot of work going on and there's a lot of us. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Culture will be extremely rational with our time together because I have to chase at a committee meeting. Of course, I don't have to stress this specifically. I don't have to support this bill. The problems we face and the changes to the law are different rules relating to the same or very similar things, the different implementation of the same provisions in practice, the problem of different provisions on the time limits on which concessions can be given in that part, etc., etc. Therefore, this bill, these amendments and additions to the law are quite thorough in solving the problems resulting from the non-compliance of the rules, which is due to the lack of compliance of judicial and administrative practice, which is, among other things, regulated by certain things which have proved to be poorly or incorrectly regulated in practice. Among other things, it changes the first purchase right for buildings up to 50 years within protected units which are not individually protected, determines procedures related to local and construction permits and construction and other coordinations. In the opinion of the HNS Club, three are fundamental reasons why we support these changes and additions and consider them important. The first reason is to comply with the concession law. So the deadline is extending, it's been said several times from 50 to 99 years and all that's of course related to it. Therefore, it is specified that where there are different legal regimes and powers in respect of the award of concessions, the establishment of the right of construction and the right of service, and the lease of cultural goods and other properties, there is a distinction. The second reason why we believe that this law should be supported is one part related to the first point, but also to some other provisions of the law, it simply regulates and further enables the placing of cultural goods into service and that is one of the fundamental purposes and of fundamental ideas. And the third thing that we think is good and which for some reason has completely fallen, although fellow Mesic mentioned that kind of authority before the end of his speech, but he fell into another plan, it is control of traffic-moving cultural goods. For example, we had a situation relatively recently at an exhibition that there were more pictures at the exhibition than the painter in question ever painted in her life. There's a mess in the government and there's really no real control over that mess that's ruling in traffic-moving cultural goods. Therefore, this law provides for a register which will keep records of the purchase, sale and other business of movable cultural goods with, and we stress, all of this, under the obligation to verify the origin of the cultural goods that are on the market. So that's three things why we think this law should be supported. Since these discussions are being held first reading, second reading will see what will be of it but as far as we're concerned if this law goes into second reading we're willing to support it and then possibly even through it and some more things to make it even more thorough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84771	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. Jasen Mesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84772	An esteemed colleague before the end of your debate, you mentioned a mandatory change in the origin of cultural goods. In a large number of cases of archaeological findings, that's impossible. If the one you catch with that doesn't admit where it eventually dug it up, it's impossible. You even had the opportunity to buy museum collections open the mechanism so-called. Rewarding honest scientists because one of the recommendations of international organisations was that those cultural goods that were found by chance were purchased as soon as possible so as not to go further out of the country. This has happened in many of our cities, in Sisak, for example, in Vinkovci where there was a lot of continuity of archaeological layers beneath the present life. How are you going to check the situation when a man tells you that he's a random finder and he brings in 470 or 480 artifacts that he found all by chance? You need to seal the metal detectors at the border. It's the only way to keep the most valuable findings that aren't of ceramics as safe as possible. Archaeological heritage is terribly difficult to prove its origin because if you don't have complete documentation of the site and of the individual professional and chemical analysis, you can't prove that it's dug up here. If someone had taken her out of the country by chance, thank God she didn't, the famous Apoxyomena could never prove to me that he was out of there, nothing, and that there's just no shipwreck next to him. And you could have protected him if you stopped underwater metal detectors at the border because I can't locate him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84773	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84774	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Mesic, your remarks are on the spot. I'm pretty sure that, because these articles that refer to the record and the register prescribe and adopt rules on the whole story. I'm not a legal expert, there's a lot better than me in that area, but I'm pretty sure there are some common ways to solve a problem when for something you need proof of origin, and you don't have it. And I suppose then such legal solutions will probably be tailored to the specific situation you're talking about will be incorporated into that rule and in the way in which you keep records and proofs of origin and dealing with cases that cannot be proven for which one who owns them cannot prove their origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84775	Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84776	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Coleman, it's a little bit, so I can even say funny what we're talking about in this extra house. So, there's got to be a record of an artist who made it. He is either a member of some association, cooperative or is an independent artist and based on other positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia we must keep records and purchases of materials and the consumption of this material. You understand, and that just tells you that because of the daily needs of populist things, we eliminate some that don't need some things to do that each other has to do. Is it because he gave someone a dear God-given gift to be a good machinesmith or something else, so he gave someone to be a great artist. And the normal thing is that because of all this together they may not be ready to run any papers, and most of them are members of some association, I will not mention the most famous association here in Zagreb, through which they obtain material and all that together. And that's why he has to, if he's got something over something with a more favourable condition, he's got to keep a record, he's got to justify it. Therefore, if he bought so many and so many canvass at a given time, he would have to say that so many and so many images were made, based on existing laws. But now we come to what is Croatia's biggest problem, so we don't want to make someone stick to the laws that are at this point, but we're going to go further bureaucratize. So now the tax collectors will come looking for some kind of control or some kind of record, and some kind of inspection from the Ministry of Culture will look for some of their records, and we'll have people who aren't otherwise prone to running paper simply because they are. Not because they don't want to, that they want to fool the state, but simply that bohemian spirit is what it is, making them run twice as much paper as they should. Instead of simply adapting the system that exists to them to get it all on record. So this is a typical example of how something in the state is bureaucratized, a typical example. So we're asking existing things to do something extra just to get it under the hat of some minister or ministry, and that's the biggest problem of the Croatian state administration, you know that post-it-it-and-where I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84777	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84778	A fellow Shuker, so we had an exhibition of a prominent painter in a respectable institution where there were more pictures than she painted, so there would be a fake, a question of what not. So what's the fact that the whole story needs to be put in order. It seems to me, though it's a good idea at first sight, but it seems to me that it's very hard to introduce work just by counting canvass, and the amount of paint and brushes that someone bought especially for someone who's not alive anymore. We have, therefore, a huge amount of counterfeiting in Croatia, which pictures and other arts and moving cultural goods that cannot be determined by origin. Not to mention that this article, or this proposal, includes traffic to other cultural objects that have artistic, historical, archaeological and other meanings. It could be old cars, for example. So there's a whole series of moving cultural goods that kind of needs to be put in order, know what we're up against, know what the origins are. So it's there and it can't be solved just by this method that you're talking about. And that's why we think this is a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84779	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84780	Thank you very much. Comrade Coleman, you said that there was a mess and that you were at the exhibition, that you were at an exhibition where there were more pictures than the artist painted, and I'm going to say that this might be a minor problem, that a much bigger mess is ruling in that system itself, not now in the last year, two, not in general. And not only is there a mess, but it's government and self-will, and it's in the conservator section. So it's a place where investments are stopped, in which various things are carried out that shouldn't be done and where in principle you at local level as a participant have no one to complain about. It seems to me that even this amendment of the law does not solve the same problem, and it trusts me that this mess that appears there is very slowing down and creating problems for investors, but also for those who would like to do something and that, in accordance with the law, is therefore particularly self-will. You have the example that the same conservator that consents to some nebulosis in the center of a city that is protected, on the other hand two metres from that is further fissile and not that what would be normal, which is historically originally. There are situations like this, and these things need to be resolved. I agree that there is a mess, and I don't think it will, they won't shrink after this law to a greater extent, as counterpart Schuker said, and fellow Mesic, so we have to start implementing the laws and implement them until the end, and not as soon as we come across a wall, even if it's not protected, we're looking for a new law right now, we're going to invent something new, we're trying to bypass that wall with laws. It doesn't work like that, it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84781	Thank you. That's my colleague Coleman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84782	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, so I'm actually taking a bigger deal with what you said I agree. The fact is that the local level often comes up with observations, that our general being in the state and public administration, our ideology if we can call it that is to try to find a way to prevent someone from doing something, to prevent... Instead of finding ways to develop something and do something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, this worldview is not spared by the conservatives and the people you speak of. This law is certainly a step forward, among other things, making these changes and supplementing them. And you are certainly like all of us free, that at any time until the end of the first reading, and if the law goes to another reading, especially to propose an amendment or otherwise some additional amendment that might contribute to this part of what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84783	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and as usual, Mr. Deputy Minister without a minister, we will not be able to see our minister in the Croatian Parliament in this term, I don't know why, but we would like to see her anyway if we could at least ask her for her health. Therefore, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods without transitional and final provisions has 26 articles of which are so-called Articles relating to sanctions 4. Therefore, Article 24 refers to sanctions and fines of between 20 and 200 thousand kuna, Article 25 on fines ranging from 3 to 40 thousand kuna, Article 26 on fines ranging from 2 thousand to 10 thousand kuna and Article 23 on fines ranging from 50 to 500 thousand kuna. Who's actually supposed to be sanctioned here? When we talk about, I believe that we all had some experience regarding this matter, so here, a year ago, I visited Zrin City because the Ministry of Culture wrote that it was involved in the reconstruction, in the preservation of the old town of Zrinski, and a gentleman there offered me to buy a top Turkish arrow for 100 euros, the top of the Turkish arrow. So, from the times of war and that region, let me say the military where Zrin took a significant place. I wasn't the first money, but I don't know if I should have or shouldn't have bought the top of the Turkish arrow. But in order for the Ministry of Culture and all these great inspections and the rest to come to the point that, here I am, in my house, holding the top of that Turkish arrow. Also, there are other cities of truly great archaeological significance in this area, starting from... where the money was forged, the first Croatian money of Banovac and its surroundings, but it existed before the war and collections, an extremely valuable collection of amateur archaeologists, I will not name it because it is irrelevant, which is in the school hall of the regional school in which he exhibited everything he found in that area, starting from the Illilirian and Roman swords to the Roman helmets, money from the Roman era and everything that is, including ceramics and other cultural goods, therefore one extremely, extremely valuable archaeological collection. Here, I'm going to ask the deputy minister, does he know where that collection went in the war wind? I'm sure it wasn't destroyed. It was taken away. Is there a demand for this collection, so from the Republic of Croatia to someone or a superior, let me say, I won't tell a thief or a thief or those who are clearly without a metal detector and then there wasn't even that limit, they took that collection to some other country. And indeed by the origin of which it was dug and found, and also by the place of residence of the finder and archaeologist of amateurs who jealously and lovingly kept and showed to school children, belongs to the Republic of Croatia. There's no talking about it, no talking about it, no talking about it. If we look at this legislative proposal, then start again from the end and check or if you check who it is in consultation with, therefore with the interested public, made observations, tried to make comments on the draft amendment law and amendments to the Law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. So, remarks were tabled by representatives of the Croatian Restaurant Institute, the Serbian National Council and documents of the Centre for the Facing of the Past. When, therefore, we only have that information, if we try to find the content of these, let me say, complaints or suggestions sent to the Ministry of Culture, then we will see both answers and suggestions. So it's about declaring or... monuments from... in terms of declaring cultural goods or preserving the status of cultural goods starting from Petrova up, Kamenski and some others. What the Croatian Restaurant Institute is objecting to about this law is precisely contained in Article 22 of this new law. He says Article 104 is amended and said, the Council has presidents and 8 members. As my predecessor has already said, this council is the president and three council members has appointed the Ministry of Culture. Now, according to the new one, the president also has members of the election, so all 8, appointed the minister responsible for culture from the ranks of prominent experts on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. Of all 3 of these, let me say, institutions that have substantiated their proposals, therefore come suggestions that the Council for Culture, for cultural good, is sorry, that the Council for Cultural Goods, as it writes, is missing the opportunity to include a competent body, for example the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods, in the process of acquiring the properties of cultural goods already dakar, predicting that the article which provides for mandatory obtaining the opinion of the Council before erasing from the Register of Cultural Goods, therefore not only does the Council no longer play a role in deleting from the Register of Cultural Goods, and it is proposed that even when enrolment in the Register of Cultural Goods, the Council has a greater role to play. Unfortunately, it loses that role or completely or not, and certain higher powers are given to conservation departments. What does that mean in practice? And here there was also a word in Mr. Coleman and Mesic's debate at least with indications that in conservation departments, every honour of their expertise and work, it cannot be ignored, but that there can be or may be riots and self-will but also the possibility of giving in to the pressures of politics or investors. I will not speak directly about the mechanisms of these pressures because in each county there is a conservative department that decides on the fate of cultural goods or cultural units. How he will give in to these pressures or will give in, how great these pressures are by politics or political elites or by "fat investors" who are associated with political elite and politics, it is indeed such a profound one. The truth is that the water is deep, that it will be solved in one Conservatory Department, not in the Cultural Goods Council, which has 9 members formed also by the foundation of the ministry and people elected by the National University Library and other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so at one really representative and high level. It is said that EU accession has made it possible for the Republic of Croatia to implement projects and programmes that could apply programmes towards the EU in connection with our cultural goods. We have heard that no new programme except for those from 2010, 2011 has been made for two and a half years for the existence of this Ministry of Culture and Government of the Kukuriku Coalition. We wonder if Croatia has shut down by declaring these cultural goods and programmes towards the EU or if there is really no interest or whether there is negligence and incompetence of the Ministry of Culture? When we speak and this law says that there will be an orderly register of moving cultural goods, and this time you would first emphasize archaeological cultural goods, then the strange newspaper I think is strange, it is a good newspaper that Mr Mesic proposes to introduce a meta-detector at our borders, although it was an opportunity for any government in the Republic and those before, and also these now, but unfortunately there is no one. We also know that with these findings, it is really easy to cross the border with numismatic values that is not at all a problem to cross the border of the Republic, we know for ourselves how we cross the border and in what ways and ways, so I think that this traffic is black, we can say to gray from the Republic, mostly, from the Republic not really huge and large, and that there are no sanctions, that there is no control and control and that our cultural goods are slightly and disappear as they say by the trail. And even if there was a particular procedure and a legal one, let's say, Seus's treasure, where she was known campaign tens and more years ago, it's not mentioned today, nor is it heard, nor is it known what's going on with it. What to say about this, given that this law provides for an administrative appointment by the Council for Cultural Goods by the Ministry and the Minister, and given the previous experience with the Ministry of Culture, here in the application of new cultural programmes towards the EU, it is hardly possible for such a law. Although I must say that he is somewhat editing according to the register, given the Register of Cultural Goods, he is somewhat better regulated by this area. Taking away the right of the Council for Cultural Goodness doesn't seem to be a good move, so it's hard to be both for and against, perhaps abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84785	Thank you, too. One notice, we'll be working in continuity without a lunch break until the end of the 24th agenda. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84786	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club welcomes this legislative initiative by the Ministry of Culture and at the same time warns of those parts of the law that are formulated so that they unfortunately allow the removal from the register of some cultural goods, monumental, exceptional artistic and historical values that are under the war circumstances of '91-'95. destroyed and belonged to the cultural artistic value of the 20th century, primarily sculptures of monumental monumental monument and belong to the historical heritage of the Croatian anti-fascist tradition. And we, in line with the proposals for documents and in line with the proposals of the Serbian National Council, expect the ministry to make that part of the law, and provisions concerning the ease of eradication from the register of monuments until '92. Let's say Kamensko, mentioned by his colleague Grubisic, who represents one of the most significant monumental, monumental, artistic works in European development, destroyed and unfortunately outside the area and after the field of war action deliberately, targeted by multiple mining and multiple devasting to avoid the risk of eradicating that type of monumental heritage when this law is on Wednesday. And in that sense, we, Deputy Minister, expect that by the end of this debate and before the adoption of this law, the Ministry or the Government will remove those places in the law that allow officials or anyone else to delete that kind of monumental heritage when changing the register or when making a register. Such monuments, apart from Kamenskog, there is, of course, a monument on Petrovac, in Petrovo Gora, also a monument of Vojin Bakic, one of Croatia's largest sculptors, one of the largest Croatian artists who can be measured with the English sculptor Moore by their achievements in world proportions whose works are unfortunately during the war years or devastated as is the monument to Kamensko. Kamensko, I come back once again in the opinion of those of us sitting in the Parliament, who are engaged in public policies, but in the opinion of art historians and by... The opinion of artistic critics and artists themselves belongs to the world's top monumental sculpture and monumental monumental parks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for this reason, we believe it is important to protect this type of monumental heritage, and at the same time we think it is extremely important for the government to launch an initiative together with European institutions to restore this monumental heritage and thus correct what has been done as a misdemeanour in the period of '91. '95. by those who felt that it did not belong to the Croatian monumental heritage, who felt that it had no artistic value only because they had a different ideological omen, only because they marked it with ethnic features. And since today is the day marking the Day of the Great World Scientist, researcher and inventor Nikola Tesla, associated with the day of his birth, I would like to remind you that another major Croatian statue is Frano Krsinić with his monument Nikola Tesla unfortunately did not get the opportunity to be protected not only in physical form but also to be protected in respect of the place where he should stand. The monument still stands in the left hand of the Croatian Fine Arts Academy in Zagreb's Ilica and does not stand in Gospić Square where it has always stood until '92. Until he was mined. He was mined by Frano Krsinić, a great Croatian Cypriot and was mined by Nikola Tesla, a great Croatian inventor, a scientific, world-class epochal achievement. We ask you to consider that fact, too, because it is not only a matter of protecting the physical existence of the monuments but also of protecting both the place and the purpose and the way that the monument was built. It can't be, it can't be that there are people who think that this type of monumental heritage, that this kind of monumental symbolism can be treated the way it was treated by individual groups and today unfortunately treated by individual groups when we talk about the period '91-'95. The same applies to certain monumental, significant monumental achievements in the region of Dalmatia, above all Metković and Obuzen, Podgora also where there are exceptional monumental heritage in Podgorica and Croatian Partizans, seamen that are extremely important for modern Croatian history, for Croatian republicanism in the way it was formulated during this period, and at the same time it is a significant artistic part as in Opuzen, which is not only a monument of one of the prominent representatives of the movement of partisan resistance in Croatia but also artistic first-class values. And if such a monument or a similar monument can exist in Valjevo, so someone who is the uprising and one of the prominent leaders of the Partizan movement of the board, and cannot exist in Croatia, then we really have to ask ourselves what kind of relationship to our own art, according to our own cultural heritage, according to our own historical values. For these reasons, Mr. Deputy Minister, we of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS propose to remove the opportunities that exist in the proposal for this law if it is highlighted in the objections to the documents of the Serbian People's Council, that these remarks be applied and come in the form of an amendment to the Government to remove this risk because that risk would in fact justify this misdeed or these misdemeanors committed by the senseless people, people whose art and free movement as part of the '41 Partisan period. By '45. It doesn't mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84787	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Dragan Blackbeard, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84788	Dear colleagues. Representative, we agree, and we agree on this issue of making a solution to the end of the properties of cultural goods, that it is necessary to think carefully whether it should be included in the law. I just wanted to especially since you didn't list here to ask, and we've been together multiple times to mention the Dudik area. That's where the football field was even built. The unit of local self-government changed the spatial plan and it marked it as a sports-recreation area. What we're going to do, in such cases, is, for those others you've listed, can we expect the same thing to happen or something like that and whether there's any concern about it and how to prevent it? So I know you're familiar with this, but I think it's a good idea to point out here what's actually done on such occasions and how long it's been since it's been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84789	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Pupovci, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84790	Dear fellow Montenegrin, you are absolutely right to mention the Dudik Memorial complex in the area of Vukovar, in the area of the city of Vukovar, which marks the terrible death of about 500 civilians who were killed during the wartime of '41-'45. by the occupation armies and their... associates. And the monument is a great work, an original work, one of the important works of architect Bogdano Bogdanovic, who was devastated in the war period of '91-'95. and which should be restored, just as it was a duty for the city of Vukovar and all others to set up a relationship to the monumental area so as not to be devastated. If someone today dared to devastate some other monumental areas with the right to rise up against it, and this is not what happened and that is another reason and you rightly warn that, that is another reason for this law to change in line with the observations that have been made. I will also mention here the case of the great Croatian sculptor Ratko Petric whose monuments were mostly destroyed in the period '91-'95, a great Zadar artist who unfortunately died a few years ago, who raised, whose monument had been erected, was first mined and is now restored to Jadovna. But his monument in Velika Gorica is also an extremely significant piece of work that was mined during the war period of '91-'95. And it's very important that this great monumental heritage, Mr. Deputy and former Minister, which you've missed the opportunity to take care of that fact to restore it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84791	Thank you. Next line, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Pupovac, I wouldn't speak... Just a little bit, Mr. Shucker, while I say so you can have it with him later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I would not speak ideologically, I would speak about what the cultural future of Croatia could enable and create. So here's an example of a municipality in the PPDS, it was also in the former state of Yugoslavia. There was always a municipality to be helped in view of its economic potential. So it's about Banovina, the municipality of Dvor where at the top of Zrinska Mountains are unearthed foundations that were not known at all, the cistercite churches, the cistercite monastery. At the same time, at the top of that Zrinska mountain, there was a museum from NOB, and I guess a war hospital, traces of it. At the time of the Homeland War there was the main electronic centre for operations of the Croatian Army, so from three periods, and perhaps more traces not only of civilization but also of cultural monuments that could provide at least if nothing other than the tourist value of the municipality towards those who want to or want to visit, something more to know about this mountain, which is covered in chestnuts and the Kostanica itself bears the name Croatia Kostanica. So one historic tour could be made of the town of Zrinski in Kostanica, Zrina, the top of Zrinska Mountain with numerous monuments of culture and life in these parts which are currently really one of, when we look at the economic strength, the most underdeveloped in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84793	Thank you. Answer me, Pupovac fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84794	Dear counterpart Grubisic, it is true that during this war there were people in the area of the then Krajina who defiled the memory of antifascism and who rarely treated him like those from the opposite ideological omen, wanted him gone. But that can't be the reason for such a relationship to the great monumental heritage of Vojin Bakic. There weren't any repeaters in Kamenski, so it's still down. There was no repeater on the Stjepan Pilipovic monument in Obuzen, yet it was destroyed. Unfortunately, these facts hardly compromise those who have done so and this kind of argument that you are using unfortunately is insufficient to justify this type of action. And as for the earlier layers on Peter’s mountain, these earlier layers should also be marked and marked and we are absolutely for it. And this monument of Bakićev can today serve to ensure that all the layers of history that have been deposited in the area, from Roman times, from the time of Croatian kings and to modern times, all of them need to find their place there. And we advocate that kind of approach and for that kind of concept we stand for. We don't stand for any exclusivity when it comes to it. And I would just like to say that if I was wrong about the statues and sculptures of the great Zadar and Croatian sculptor Ratko Petric, I apologize to those who were potentially wrongly listed but unfortunately Petric's were systematically destroyed and not only in the areas of war action, but in Croatian cities where these activities were unfortunately not. And we are obliged to protect this great work of art that Petrovic left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84795	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. I am reporting in my desire to uphold this law and for my own personal stand against the preservation of cultural heritage. Culturally, the most important area of general and public interest is clear exemption from politics and therefore concern but also sensitivity to cultural approach must be particularly focused on policy as guardians as well as as as promoters of the artistic and cultural development of the state and society. Our ancestors left us with an immense wealth of cultural heritage in all fields of cultural and artistic expression and in fine arts, music literature, architectural fine works, theatre arts and all other arts or folklore heritage, and a specific ordinary heritage. It is the task of all of us to speak more often and more responsibly about the facts of Croatian cultural heritage. The task is especially educational institutions at all levels to educate citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a proper but systematic and unquestionable way. The protection of cultural heritage is and must be a high area of expertise with unreserved support for policy at all levels. It takes great, but never enough material resources to be collected from those who have the privilege of doing so in or on cultural good. Today, in Croatia or outside Croatia, numerous Croatian artists also work and work to leave works of art that could and will be the artistic and cultural heritage of future generations. And the status of contemporary artists of all areas is a concern for future cultural heritage and that is our concern. 1 July 2013 Croatia has become 28 EU members. All the cultural good members of the EU have in some way become culturally good citizens and citizens of Croatia. Also, all the cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia have become in some way good citizens of the countries of Europe. It is clear that the cultural benefits of each country mark the cultural identity of the country's citizens and citizens. For example, the art of Flemish painters is also the art of all Europe and the world, but this best and most firmly identifies the Flemish, contemporary Flemish. It also identifies us as our cultural and artistic heritage by joining the EU and promotes our cultural specificities, and we should be proud. The introduction into the EU of Croatia with its cultural heritage is a unique and extremely rich artistic cultural heritage. Our culture is so different and so much the same within Europe. The various strong and less powerful influences of the East and the West, the authenticity of wealth, the diversity of microunits and the incredible number of artifacts make European culture and European cultural heritage by entering Croatia into full-fledged EU membership significantly richer. We must be proud of that, but it imposes additional responsibility in cataloging, preserving, presenting and preserving our cultural heritage. And that is why this law provides for a process to determine the properties and end of the properties of cultural goods, the right to buy first in respect of buildings that are not individually protected as cultural goods to buildings over the age of 50 will be limited. The immovable cultural well-being owned by the religious community in which the funds from the state budget and the budget of the units of local regional self-government are invested will be excluded from the application of the provisions on the establishment of legal publishing law ensuring the recovery of the funds invested in the case of sales. The provisions on the award of concessions with the Law on concessions will be brought into line, and the time limit on which a concession on cultural well-being from 50 to 99 years may be extended. The procedure will be regulated in the case of different legal regimes and authorising officers with regard to the award of concessions, the establishment of the right of construction and the right of service, and the lease for cultural well-being, and the content of the concession fee will be specified. A way of setting out specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods in the process of issuing local permits and building permits will be regulated. Specific conditions will be laid down for the protection of cultural goods for the construction of simple and other buildings that do not require the establishment of a building permit. The issue of prior authorisation for actions that could cause changes in cultural goods will be arranged. The handling of the competent authority will be arranged where the investor and the contractor take up the store or operation on a culturally good building permit, prior approval or confirmed main project. The handling of the competent authority will be regulated if the supervised person does not act on the request of the inspectors and monitoring of the traffic of movable cultural goods will be established, the composition and the way... The Croatian Council for Cultural Goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the framework of the proposed law, among other things, I fully understand the trend of the importance of the launch of the shale economy that is being passed through this law, but also the firmness of the ministry's position on the necessity of systematic and continuous protection of the preservation of Croatian cultural goods. And as my colleagues from the HNS, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84797	Thank you. And finally Deputy Minister Berislav Šipush. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a thank you for the debate today, a few sentences for answers to respected MPs. As regards the harmonisation of concession provisions with the Law on concessions, we did indeed have to do so precisely in order to align the time period of concession with other concession providers because, as you know, the different time limits, i.e. the time periods, simply refused and prevented any possibility of investment. So also investments in cultural well-being, which would, of course, enrich or gain another added value. As regards editing, i.e. laying down specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods for the construction of simple and other buildings and works within a cultural and historical unit for which no building permit is required, there is still a obligation of the conservation department to grant prior approval and for those facilities for which documentation and building permit is required, the conservation department confirms that there is still a obligation of the conservation department to control those processes. As far as conservatory elaborate is concerned, I'll repeat it means it'll be made by specialized natural and legal persons. This is, of course, a professional document that will be drawn up as necessary, and above all for large projects. I'm going to list one just to remind you, let's say the Brijuni project where special conditions are given, and yet that conservation department must be involved. As far as Mr Mesic was concerned, he was talking about EU projects and mentioned something about the Croatian House Foundation, I'm just going to say that he is currently in the process of rebuilding the palace... European funds to prepare the largest project that is related to culture and the activity of, say, the Archaeological Museum of one, which is the Archaeological Park Vucedol project for European funds as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the Croatian House Foundation, she started her work and the competition opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84799	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84800	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 677. The debate on the text of the law is over. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, I am voting on the next conclusion. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods has been discussed in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, who's in favour of the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 18 votes against, four abstentions, have adopted the proposed conclusion. We will not vote on the final bill because the conclusion is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84801	We continue with - Final draft law supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 676; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. With us is Defence Minister Predrag Matic. Minister, here's an introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a small addition to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. In fact, it is about defence cooperatives that are the most positive story about Croatian defenders after the Homeland War. So, this programme on cooperatives has been implemented since 2004, the former governments, this government, have been involved, and certainly every future one, because where cooperative defenders are there is no problem. They're always happy, they radiate with optimism, they're in a positive mood. They are not persecuted and contributed to themselves and their families and their society and can truly be proud of all Croatian citizens. The recent amendment of the Pension Insurance Act has brought about a small technical problem, since in one part the managers of defence cooperatives are retired and there is a conflict on their rights. In agreement with the co-operatives themselves and with the Minister of Labour and Pension System, we have found one satisfactory solution in this supplement of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. So here's just a few sentences that this supplement brings. We define defence cooperatives and its specificities in view of the composition of the members and the objectives of the establishment, normatively regulate the situation, i.e. that the rights of cooperatives are not lost by the behaviour of the manager, while at the same time taking into account the competitiveness or equality of the cooperatives on the market. By prescribing the financial threshold achieved, we limit potentially possible distortions of market competitiveness. So cooperative managers are basically nonprofits, making some small profits but managers generally don't. So if the cooperative, which we would like to achieve more than 150 thousand kuna profits at the end of the year, then the manager would either be obliged to apply for retirement or transfer powers to another cooperative. By keeping records of defence cooperatives, i.e. their managers and defence cooperatives, apply the measures and activities of the professional training and employment programme as one of the activities carried out by the Ministry in order to preserve and protect the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in society and to overcome and mitigate the consequences of the Homeland War. I would like to stress once again that these legal provisions have been agreed with both the cooperatives and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, and I therefore think that this will be unanimously adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84803	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84804	Dear Vice-President and Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, and here at the beginning to say immediately that the position of the Croatian Labour Labour Party is that we will support the proposal of this law, but we must also note some things related to the text that is accompanied by the text of the law. When she was debated here in this House on the Law on Co-operations, if I remember correctly all, all the club representatives, or most of the club representatives, even the representative who spoke on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SPD, pointed to a problem that would happen. And the problem happened, now we've got it. The same thing was when we talked here about the Pension Insurance Act, and then it was the same thing that was determined to come out of it, we're creating ourselves a problem. Now we have come into a situation that we must create a law whose application will be lex specialis compared to some other laws. I think that's enough talking about, I'm going to be so mild, not synchronised within the government and that there was a lot of goodwill, political goodwill that could then be solved in a different way, and I think that everyone would be happy, surely such a proposal would be supported by all the club representatives regardless of this or that side of the assembly. The fact that if I'm not mistaken, one-third, I think I read somewhere that one-third of all cooperatives refer to defense cooperatives. It's already saying enough that it's not some minor part, that it's not what we should be doing okay we're going to solve it with some sublegal act or something, that it was time to react and finally here it is now that the promoter himself has found that 43% of all the cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia make up defence cooperatives. In this regard, it is not necessary to forget for the fact that these defence cooperatives have an effect, i.e. have an effect and work therapy, and that it is not when we deal with a particular topic, that it should nevertheless be seen a little wider, taken into account all that this law, the draft law will have consequences. The promoter cited here and the fact that measures to support the work of these cooperatives were extremely successful and that is one of the more reason to listen to constructive proposals at that time, but to make absurd proposals more of a check from its own ranks. I don't know if it was pure of that muscle power display or if it was a lack of understanding of the problem. In any case, I have to go back a little bit to text myself, I have one detail left to say a little bit, not to mention a questionable one, and it refers to Article 64c paragraph 3. 150 thousand kuna, whether that limit is determined with some data, some experience we have so now we can say ok mostly 95% or 100% associations are within that limit, so then let's say we did something that's real, or it's again some obvious method that unfortunately we often have a chance to see here in the Parliament. I think you should think about it that maybe this limit should still be lifted and raised to a higher level because 150 thousand kunas at the level of the year aren't much of an exaggeration, with that talking about these cooperatives. I have to remind you of another debate that was in this House which indirectly relates to this, it's a debate about the Law on the Single Body of Art. Both at that time, and during the debate on the Cooperative Law, and during the debate on the Pension Insurance Act on several occasions, I had the impression that there was some kind of negative attitude towards the defence population. Whether it is under the impression of real, or bloated, or problematic numbers of defenders who are by many exaggerated, whether it is under the impression of constant media inscriptions, especially for a time it was actual about false wartime wartime disableds and their acquisition of that status where they were part of the doctor, part of the doctor to correct myself immediately, one part of the doctor involved in the affair. But I think it's extremely harmful. You know, if someone starts in their own past, by themselves, by members of their community, if they start talking in such a way of disrespect and disrespect, I think it's very harmful in general for the whole community. And for the very end, since the law is, we're going to support it and we're not going to, it's not too large, except for that proposal that I said that you still consider whether these 150 thousand kunas are some real figure. For the very end, I will look back at the amendment that we have received on the benches, or we have received 2 amendments if I am not mistaken and I fully understand the amendment promoter and I agree in principle. It's just that amendment I'm making, maybe I'm wrong, but it's opening up a new doubt. What is the case, in this case, is that when a cooperative can be a defence cooperative related to a number, or percentage, the ratio of cooperatives who have the status of defenders, which, in the event of the establishment of that cooperative, after its registration, involves cooperatives who are neither children of Croatian defenders nor Croatian defenders? Will that change the status of that cooperative in that case? So are we going to have a situation where you can't ban people from having a desire, a desire to work, and now for good reason they're going in, for good reason, good faith with fair desires entering this cooperative, and then eventually we're all losing it together, the members of the cooperative because we've crossed some quota and now we're losing the status of a defense cooperative. I like the idea as an idea, and I absolutely support it, I just think that maybe a little bit more should work out for it to achieve that goal, or that intention, to achieve the intention that made the amendment and submitted it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84805	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is another addition to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who are trying to repair the damage done to Croatian defenders and members of their families involved in the cooperative. The change of this and the addition of the law was not really supposed to occur, that in time, there was coordination between the Ministry of Defence and other state bodies, but here it is. In the opening explanation of these additions, the Proposer points out that more than 43% of all Croatian cooperatives are defence cooperatives, while 297 actively operate even after the conditions of business of cooperatives. The applicant further points out that Article 9 of the applicable Cooperative Act is a prescribed way of registering cooperatives, i.e. obtaining legal personality by enrolment in the court register of the local competent commercial court. In accordance with the applicable rules in the Republic of Croatia, each legal person to be entered in the court register shall determine the persons responsible for its management for which the obligation of pension insurance is prescribed on the basis of generation solidarity. The new Pension Insurance Act also provides for cooperative managers. The promoter also points out that the current Cooperatives Act defines a number of different types of cooperatives according to certain specific features but does not recognise defence cooperatives as a separate species although due to their specificities and numbers they should certainly be identified. Defence cooperatives from others as a unique property distinguishes the fact that their members are mostly or fully persons with the recognised status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War or family members of the death victim, captured or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, mostly children, who want to be highlighted in their name and action. The defence minister at the Croatian Defence Co-operation Fair at the beginning of this year in Zadar said there are no suicides, family violence and alcoholism in defence cooperatives. I quote, over 500 defence cooperatives work in Croatia and their biggest problem is the placement of their quality organic products. We want to connect them to hotelers and tourist communities, the minister said. It is interesting that in his society he was then also the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Gordan Maras, the minister in charge of the cooperative issue. However, this... legislation was not pointed out by the defence minister or the minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, but by the desperate defenders of the cooperatives who were forced to think about shutting down cooperatives because of the payments they had received, and with cooperatives and shutting down their chances of living a normal and fulfilling life. The question arises, how is it possible for different ministries to propose quite conflicting legal solutions, why are policies not harmonised, in which way does this government make decisions when, after very short implementation of these decisions and legal solutions, it is extremely often found that they produce negative effects for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Furthermore, the question arises why the Government does not hold a public debate on its draft laws, with more than the Constitutional Court also having to intervene because it very often determines the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution. As far as the legislative proposal itself is concerned, the provisions of Article 64c of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are concerned. Article 64c enables not to apply to the mandatory pension insurance of a cooperative manager, in so far as it is a person who is entitled to a disability pension under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with determined overall inability to work, i.e. total loss of working ability or professional incompetence for work, i.e. partial loss of employment, which the manager does without compensation. This is primarily to address the college of acquired rights and obligations that entail the functions of the cooperative manager. In order to protect a fair match and balance, the same thing is limited by the financial threshold of the profit achieved in which case the cooperative must be managed by a person who is professionally, not voluntarily, to perform that duty. However, the proposed amount of 150 thousand kuna is controversial for several reasons and will likely cause consequences for defence cooperatives that I have now, their shutting down. The applicant shall, in no circumstances, indicate how much money the defence cooperative average earns during one calendar year, nor shall it offer any budget on the basis of which it would make it more clear exactly the amount of 150 thousand kuna per year for the financial threshold achieved. Will the profit also include the achievement of support and other forms of state aid, donation of the local self-government unit and similar sources of income? In addition, the activities of the Ministry of Defence defined by the programme favour increasing the profits of defence cooperatives and achieving their competitiveness on the market. It should also bear in mind the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 64d which allows for the free association of cooperatives with the Union in order to achieve common ideas, projects, programmes and activities, and this possibility may and must have a positive impact on the increase of defence cooperatives. To conclude, a lot of defense cooperatives will again, in a year, seek to amend the legal solution and all that I have said about this 150 thousand kuna limit. However, despite the changes to this Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and should not have come as I said there was more coordination between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Pensions and the Ministry, we will support this amendment of the law because no one is interested in further shutting down defence cooperatives, it is not in any interest to stop one of the best programmes of the Croatian Defence Ministry in the past ten years which has received exceptional results and as regards psychosocial therapy of Croatian defenders, but also in terms of the employment of unemployed Croatian defenders because it is not necessary to ignore the fact that several thousand Croatian defenders have been employed through this programme of defence cooperatives and thus ensured their existence and their families. But we would like to point out once again, especially when it comes to the Croatian defender and his family that the ministry has to take more care of and have better coordination with other state bodies, that we do not often have times, and this seems to me the second time this year to amend the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, we will soon have another amendment due to the Law on the Single Body of Art. So the question is, couldn't we have made that change along with this amendment to the law? However, regardless of all these remarks I have made, the HDZ Club will support this addition to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84807	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Tinker Millas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ivić will look back on this part of which you also spoke about, so this addition of the law really needs to be supported so that defence cooperatives can function. However, it is interesting that the law on defence cooperatives did not simply recognise the specificity and specificity of these organisations, not only because they are special and defensive but because they are organisations that, apart from the material story of employment and existence, have a far more important one, which is a social or resocial story. The defenders and members of their family joined the organization of cooperatives primarily to resociate in society, and thus to make it possible for themselves to live a decent life. It is interesting why this is not seen in any of the laws relating to this issue, while as you have mentioned the law which spoke about the abolition of supplies in an indirect manner from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, so we are talking about a law concerning the Ministry of Social Care and Youth Policy, has simply passed provisions that have abolished supplies for defenders where they have passed a minimum guarantee of compensation to which, as far as I know, the largest number of them cannot be obtained because of the criteria where the ministry has again approached in a way that it has provided funds for one-time assistance aware that they will not be able to obtain this minimum guarantee. I wonder why it's always being solved like that, why do we always use fire measures to solve systems that have proved to be good? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84809	Thank you, too. Ivić's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84810	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Milas, I agree with what you said. Obviously, this is a lack of systematic care and resolution that is present in the defence population. As I said, this defence cooperative program is certainly one of the best programs of the ministry. I remember in 2004 only one or two cooperatives were founded defence cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia and through a programme for the employment of unemployed Croatian defenders and with significant funds invested by the Ministry of State Budget in encouraging defence cooperatives we came to the conclusion that there are now over 500 defence cooperatives in Croatia. And it is completely unclear why such legal proposals that the director of cooperatives must have been a professional were even referred to defence cooperatives when it was necessary to know and assume that this would reflect whether or not it would affect the business of defence cooperatives. And then such fire measures as this are going to change this law now to enable cooperatives to function or prevent them from being shut down. The same is true of supplies where supplies are essentially an institution, the Institute is shut down and transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs in which most Croatian defenders will be left without these supplies. And it should also be noted that these supplies will be significantly less for nearly 300 kuna per Croatian defender because most users of supplies are single. And it's not the same to have a legal solution and provide a one-time aid fund at the ministry. Those assets can be this year and who says they'll be secured next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84811	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Ivić, regardless of what our club will support, so these amendments to this law have left many questions that ask for answers and which you have asked for a reason. Surely the moment where cooperatives are not recognized as a special personality and you said clearly and recognized that the cooperative is also in that therapeutic part and has exceptional effects, and also existentially given the number of employees. And that's why it's unacceptable, of course there's some kind of noise and interference between the ministries... But I want to highlight a special moment where in the rural areas I'm talking about defenders have been brought into a particularly unfavourable position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I keep talking about our defenders in rural areas who have achieved importance and have engaged as strong farmers. Of course, given the agricultural policy, they found themselves in an unspeakable position. And now, of course, they're forced to try through cooperatives to achieve therefore and the placement of their products, one serious production, serious, I'm talking about one serious production not only of 150 thousand, I'm talking about cattlemen, I'm talking about milkers who can far greater amounts but of course there are those questions about what is with family members with what counterpart Novak was talking about. So if they go to such a small production, they can't get some significant results in either this existential, existential, but of course and then in the other part, both therapeutic and social and each other. I believe that defenders in rural areas about these circumstances, Mr. Minister, when agriculture is on thin branches, must pay very much attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84813	Thank you, too. Ivić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84814	I agree with you colleagues, the fact is that most cooperatives are of agricultural character and that they are founded right in rural areas and that the Ministry must take special care of them. Just as I said that this proposal is in law, is it so of those 150 thousand kunas as a threshold that decides whether someone will volunteer or professionally deal with the ad hoc passed without one real analysis that basically has nowhere in this bill, we have no dismembering how much cooperatives have profits, what is the average profit in the community, whether that 150 thousand kuna is enough or that threshold should be reduced or increased. So there's no such thing. That's why I said that I was afraid that in a year we would have a change of laws, and that threshold would either be increased or reduced, we'd probably reduce it, because a good part of the cooperatives and it wasn't founded before it made some big profit, but that the cooperatives and through this psychosocial character of cooperatives would have the proper treatment whether and because they would feel useful and create some new value.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84815	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club Jadranka Kosor and HGS Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Of course I believe that this will be one of the laws, although it is about amending and supplementing the law, which, if not all of them, will support most of the MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, my club will definitely support it. And we've submitted some amendments that I'm going to discuss here two minutes later. However, I, as well as the predecessors, would like to warn once more about the value and importance of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. The minister said here in 2004 so from the previous government, i.e. the composition of the Croatian Defence Ministry when we started working on this project we can really say that at least as far as the employment of Croatian defenders was concerned, it was and it is good that today the Ministry also supports one of the best and most effective projects of each government because these are government projects and of course the Croatian Defence Ministry because the funds invested in the establishment or in the incentives for the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives were, of course, funds and are the funds of the Croatian state budget. So one of the most effective projects that has enabled several benefits to be achieved primarily by the employment of Croatian defenders, the employment of members of their families, and, on the other hand, and perhaps the most important purpose for both the goal and value of Croatian defenders to feel important, welcome today, to contribute in peace to the development of Croatian society, Croatian economies, of course and indeed we have had examples of incredibly successful cooperatives who started out of nothing, and have achieved great successes. And I'm going to mention a big and important project, and I think the minister is still alive today, a connection to cooperation with Podravka. So Croatian defenders' cooperatives that produce fruit and vegetables, so a great project that has also enabled the placement and which has made it possible to connect cooperatives naturally to make them stronger on the common market together. Therefore, it is a project that should be supported, especially for this reason, which has already been the subject of a project of association with Croatian defenders' cooperatives, which has enabled particularly sensitive groups among Croatian defenders, so those who have had a hard time with PTSD, an extremely severe disease that keeps Croatian defences chained so long after the war, so because of the fact that the war from their souls still today cannot come up and all the experiences of Croatian defenders who have been associated with cooperatives have shown that this is extremely effective therapy. Many of the defenders who were on medicines by association in cooperative, production, here I was last time we discussed cooperatives mentioned the extremely successful one from Sibenik that produces olive oil, so olive grow, produce olive oil, so people simply found their place, finally all these years of war. And it doesn't matter the number of cooperatives that much, so we mention different numbers, here in this report it says 371, but it's important that we maintain, support and strengthen their importance. That is why I think it was unnecessary for us to face the necessity of amending this law in order to correct certain discrepancies and imbalances during the adoption of the Law on Cooperatives, i.e. pension insurance. Amendments could be, or would be, the most important and best if they were always balanced working on amendments and that, of course, in the amendments to each law, each ministry actively participates, so that each ministry sees problems which could be reflected as an unfavourable fact in the work of the ministry. I would also like to point out the problems that can arise despite the best intention through the amendments to this law relating to Article 64c paragraph 3 which actually creates one framework of profits of 150 000 kuna, or greater than which the director of the cooperative must be a professional, means a professional person. I agree that we should have gotten some evaluation, some analysis of what cooperatives get on average. This may cause new problems, and I propose to the Government, or I propose to the Minister that until the vote, perhaps some Government amendment that would eventually resolve this situation, because such a corrupt provision of this article can reopen new problems that will overcome that main objective, which is the establishment of cooperatives to help Croatian defenders. I have personally submitted two amendments related to Article 64.b which states who makes cooperative, i.e. that the cooperative makes up at least 2/3 of the founders or members who have recognised the status of Croatian defence counsel, wartime invalid, the status of a member of the family of the deadly victim, the prisoner or missing Croatian defender, and I have added here or children of the Croatian defender. Why, because, in the interest of all of us, it must be the employment of children of Croatian defenders and because of the fact that about 50% of the unemployed are young, that this is the highest rate in the European Union, absolutely the highest and that we have to keep an eye on each country, each society can further encourage a group. I think it is in everyone's interest to strengthen and support the children of Croatian defenders in particular. And I remind you of the 2005 Croatian Defence Act, which had one provision which was unfortunately brought down in the Constitutional Court, where we then incorporated into the law a provision to include additional quotas for children of Croatian defenders, those killed, especially those killed, children with disabilities in law so that they could study. So not children who have not crossed the threshold and who have no knowledge, that children who meet all the conditions, but for them an additional quota should be provided. It was unfortunately brought down in the Constitutional Court and then we had to agree specifically with the university how to further strengthen this actually fundamental idea, but it is now not the subject of this debate. And I further propose an amendment to Article 64(1) where cooperatives are said to freely join and establish alliances for the sake of psychosocial empowerment. I suggest we add an economic one, meaning economic and psychosocial empowerment because the main message of cooperative society in general, including the Croatian defences' cooperatives, is investment in the economy. The defenders, of course, want it further, and I know it from personal experience from countless cases that exactly through employment in different projects they want to show that they are not waiting, but that those who want to be active and in peace contribute to their homeland. I suggest you accept these amendments as well. We support the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84817	Thank you. We have one replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Kosor, you've touched two very important issues that I want to point out a little bit, and that's the question, so these 150,000 kunas of these limits, regardless of what we're talking about, the psycho-social impact of cooperatives, the therapeutic as they call it, is all positive. But if we're thinking about one serious production, I'm also talking about more serious production. Please as nicely as possible. I am in my field of witness that we can have a very serious cooperative that can work very well, but then this other question is being raised that you have highlighted and who can be a member. It's a very important question, because there's this space that they can be, and they may even be kids of the defense, but maybe even a little bit more for a little bit more. Why? Because this would, of course, contribute to the preservation except for this part means that the cooperative contributes to the preservation of rural areas, to the even development of Croatia, to the preservation of our villages, which, unfortunately, are on the extremity. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, one communication on what Ivić spoke about at the level of the ministries needs to be seen wider, and I responsibly argue that there is potential in our rural areas where our defenders who have proved to be good farmers have come into difficulty with envious production, but they need to be provided with a quality framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84819	Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84820	That I fully agree with you because here is the data saying that the largest number of Croatian defenders' cooperatives are just agricultural cooperatives. So those that, by logic, things are founded in the country, so within what's called production, agricultural production in the country, because it can only be in the country by the logic of things. I agree that this 150000 kuna limit should be reconsidered. He refers then to the gain of who may be the director, but also to the association. I don't believe you're supporting this idea to make it possible for those founders and members to be children. In particular, this applies to children living in the country. So children of Croatian defenders living in the country who can't find a job, who can't get a job and who are really hard to live on. The engagement in the community, and for some small money, is certainly to strengthen them further, and as a society, we achieve the most important goal, which is to support this particularly sensitive group. So not only young but young children of Croatian defenders. Any country can do that. In particular, many countries did so after the war. We are unfortunately the only EU member today who still treats severe early aggression in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84821	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, you have before you a bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and family members. I speak here on behalf of the club, but as a Croatian defender. To be honest, I find it difficult to see colleagues, defenders, neighbors, friends lurking between cafes, parks, houses and many times feel like they were left behind by this Croatian state, that they were forgotten. Is that entirely true? It's not safe. Do they have a lot, a lot of problems? They do. One of the biggest problems is clearly psychophysical problems. It's PTSD, it's disability. But I won't say from these problems that they're worse or not the problem of unemployment. I think it's a big problem and whether we're going to solve it by this law is hardly going to solve our problems and solve it with this law, but I hope that it really goes in the direction of resolving at least some of the Croatian defender's unemployment problem. One of the government's most successful measures is not clear but all governments have so far been on the subject of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. Unfortunately, we have very many cooperatives today, but there is no unique record of defense cooperatives. Here are my colleagues before me saying that we have almost 43% of all cooperatives associated with Croatian defenders. Is that enough? Well, probably this large number of cooperatives should be enough, but are they effective enough? I hope that this law will change something and that the Croatian defender will be an employee Croatian defender. Let me say a few things about basic issues that need to be regulated right now by this law, which is that it is necessary to define a defence cooperative called the Defence Social and Labour Association, especially in relation to the membership of members, and the objectives of establishing a cooperative. It is necessary to respect the specificity of the address to which the law is to be applied by facilitating participation in legal traffic, i.e. positioning on the market in order to encourage work and usefulness in society. To regulate the situation where the Director of the Defence Social Work Cooperative exercises the rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families in such a way as to take the same rights into account and comply with the Management Function, i.e. that it is not lost by the conduct of the governor while at the same time taking into account the competitiveness, i.e. the equality of cooperatives on the market. By attributing financial law to the creation of profits and limiting potentially potential distortions of market competitiveness due to the use of the benefits prescribed for defence and social working cooperative managers under special conditions. It shall provide for records of defence social working cooperatives, or their managers. To provide for the application of measures and the activities and training programmes carried out by the Ministry of Defence. The consequences of the adoption of this law are respecting the specificities of the defence population, facilitating and including in the working and economic processes by encouraging labour and usefulness in order to achieve full rehabilitation and reintegration in society. Enhancing the competitiveness of defence social working cooperatives and more successful inclusion in the labour market by respecting acquired rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. Limiting potential abuses, i.e. potential market imbalances and loyal matches. A unique record of defense social working cooperatives, alliances and their managers. In order to implement this law, i.e. new articles that are prescribed or regulated by defence social working cooperatives, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, since it is a legislative arrangement of cooperatives that already exist as such in legal traffic, which, by respecting their specificities, facilitates the achievement of individual and cooperative interests. Defence cooperatives already exist and operate on the market, but according to existing regulations that entered into force on 1 January 2014 in order to maintain the rights acquired on the basis of participation in the Homeland War, retired defenders cannot manage the cooperative they themselves founded or receive compensation for the same purpose. Considering they're in retirement insurance. On the other hand, the employment of another person at the place of manager requires additional financial burden, all of which question their adequate competition on the market and the involvement of members in cooperative affairs in general. This ultimately has negative consequences for rehabilitating the defence population, which is the primary objective of defence social working cooperatives. This is particularly mentioned in Article 64c, which says "The manager of the cooperative may also be a person who has recognised the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War or the status of Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War in which the general inability to work is established, i.e. total loss of working ability or professional inability to work, i.e. partial loss of working ability as a result of wounding, injury, captivity in the camp, disease, worsening of disease or the occurrence of disease in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia if the manager performs his duties without pay or compensation." This article allows the application to be submitted to the mandatory pension insurance of the cooperative manager if a person exercising the right to disability, pension under the Law on the Rights of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families with determined overall inability to work, i.e. total loss of working ability or professional incompetence to work. It is noted that the provision does not affect the acquired rights of the addressee, i.e. the exact opposite, is in line with the legitimate expectation of the addressees themselves, especially since the consequences, i.e. the changes that the provision will produce are certain and useful for the addressees themselves and their rights. The provision is a provision aimed at the protection of addresses, their acquired rights, in which it does not affect other rights, or disturbs market legality such as a loyal game, or market competitiveness. Therefore, in order to respect the specificities of these cooperatives, it has resorted to the urgent addition of the law by applying a specific provision of 1 January 2014 as the beginning of the calendar year, all for the purpose of limiting the same law as prescribed by the same law that it will not apply if the Defence Social Labour Cooperative achieves the prescribed amount of an annual benefit of 150 thousand kuna. And finally, here I want to believe that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament will raise their hands for this law, but I hope that it will really help the Croatian defender to be the Croatian defender and that ultimately this Croatian defender will be even more proud of everything he has done for the Croatian homeland. A clear SDP club will be for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84823	Thank you, too. And the ministers are finished. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs, thank you very much for this constructive debate and for supporting this amendment to the law. However, here are just a few words for those who participated in the debate, most of them also know the subject of what she was talking about, but for some who did not understand and for the public to explain. Therefore, this addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence is not about cooperatives as such, but about cooperative managers, for them this provision applies. So the defenders often speak, and they are rightly bitter when we talk about their privileges, they want to talk about rights. The hand to heart of this law supplement is to meet the Croatian defenders and in some ways one is a small privilege, but given what we achieve with defence cooperatives, no one in Croatia has anything against it. So, the amount we put in 150 thousand kunas to get, thank God, so once again, I point out that everything is in line with the associates themselves. This is about managers, if the cooperative, and we have cooperatives that are incomeing from 0, so thank God to several million kunas, this is about managers who are mahogany retired. So let's be honest when we talk about the number of unemployed Croatian citizens at the employment office, and defenders are managers and retired, and we would also like to be managers. So we've put this amount of 150 thousand kunas in if, and we're all rooting for it, there's more of them just changing the manager, nothing changes. And one more line about being a member of the community. A member of the cooperative can be anyone, we've only determined who will be the founders, but later they can if there is a need and we love it can be whoever they want. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84825	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84826	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I can't agree with your sentence as a resolute minister that this is one of the privileges of defense. You, as Minister of Croatian Defence, are simply not allowed or entitled to say this because this is not a privilege. This law is older than the Pension Insurance Act, and what I would like to tell you is that the government followed the procedure that laws are being passed then you and the Pension Insurance Act would get an opinion and probably, in accordance with the provisions of this law, give a negative opinion or make a proposal, and this should not happen at all. However, it bothers me when we talk about the privileges of Croatian defenders. They didn't take anything themselves, he gave them all this High House. Someone assessed and estimated that a certain program in one way or another could help those who created this country. And so I don't think anyone has the right to say it's a privilege, no one in this country. Because Croatian defenders did not go to the Homeland War to gain privileges. The rights given to them by the Croatian State and I underline this right is based on the proposal whether any associations, whether or not of the resolution ministry. There were laws proposed by parliamentary representatives but that is the right of Croatian defenders. So what you as defence minister have proposed is the right that Croatian defenders have and is no privilege whatsoever. And it is not good if you as a resolute minister say it is a privilege then all the bad ones who very often like to experiment with Croatian defenders will benefit greatly. And I don't think you can say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84827	Thank you. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84828	Thank you very much. Well, frankly, the same thing I wanted to do was react to this so I still don't think it's a little privilege or anything, that it's a misappropriated term on your part. On the other hand, when you mentioned these 150 thousand kuna cooperatives to achieve that result, and there's no problem going over it, changing the manager. Isn't that absurd? So we're successful, but now that we're successful, let's change the manager to keep them within the legal frameworks. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Good legal conditions. Thanks for the update. And I am taking this opportunity, given that you have now mentioned that part about these amendments, or the text of the laws to which these amendments apply, to apologize to representatives of Kosor, who I must admit that when I read this amendment, I have really misread and misunderstood it and I will support it absolutely, given that it is a quality supplement of that article that is in the basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84829	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84830	Final draft law supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 676. The debate on the text of the law is over. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on the next conclusion of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has a particularly justified reason. Please state who's for the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted unanimously by 109 votes in favour. I find that the amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been delivered within the business period, and have become an integral part of the final draft of the law. However, the amendments were also tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and Honorable Representative Jadranka Kosor. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. Deputy Deputy Secretary of Defense Wessna Nadj. Let's get this straight. Legislative Committee, Amendment No 1. to Article 3. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 676. The debate on the text of the law is over. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on the next conclusion of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has a particularly justified reason. Please state who's for the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted unanimously by 109 votes in favour. I find that the amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been delivered within the business period, and have become an integral part of the final draft of the law. However, the amendments were also tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and Honorable Representative Jadranka Kosor. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. Deputy Deputy Secretary of Defense Wessna Nadj. Let's get this straight. Legislative Committee, Amendment No 1. to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84832	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Amendment No 1. is not accepted since it has already been incorporated into the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84833	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 2. of Article 5 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84834	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84835	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 3. on Article 6 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84836	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84837	Thank you very much. I hope he's as withdrawn as he used to be? Thank you very much. Amendment of the Honored Representatives of Jadranka Kosor, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84838	Amendment No. One is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84839	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84840	It is about defining the specificity of the defence cooperative in the sense that it is necessary to connect it with Croatian defenders from the Homeland War or from HRVI and members of the family of the mortally injured, imprisoned and missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, there is no obstacle that as members of the cooperative in the same association, young and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. However, for the very definition or legal regulation of the specificity of this cooperative, it is not necessary and there is no need to address in particular all possible categories of persons, especially as Article 64b is regulated that members of the defence cooperative may also be persons who have recognised the status of members of the family of the deadly, captive or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, to whom the children of the deadly, captive or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84841	I'd like an honorary representative of the Adriaticos Kosor to be made aware of the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84842	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think it's true that it's not necessary to specify all the categories that make up how two-thirds of the cooperatives are stabilized here. So, I think it would be important and good for the children of Croatian defenders, along with Croatian defenders, to list wartime military disabled people as those who can be founders because it is important that children of Croatian defenders work, team up, school and see the future of course. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84843	Please make your statement on Amendment No. 1. Honored representatives of Jadranka Kosor whom the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Amendment No. 2nd same respected representatives of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84844	Amendment No. 2. is not accepted. In addition to the provisions in terms of economic empowerment of defence cooperatives we hold unnecessary since the basic meaning of the law is to highlight the psychosocial empowerment and health rehabilitation of its members, which this law as a lex specialis and defines. All other segments are subject to the General Cooperative Act which also points to this economic impact of the association of cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84845	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84846	... I am very surprised that you do not accept this amendment because you only bring Croatian defenders' cooperatives to a psychosocial level. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Therefore, it is not the purpose of either establishing or joining Croatian defenders' cooperatives to perform psychosocial treatment but also economic treatment through the work of cooperatives. So, to work, to team up, to make them feel better and to feel like proud members of Croatian society. So, for a psychosocial reason, I think it's important to introduce economics as well. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84847	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The 2nd Honored Representatives of Jadranka Kosor, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the final proposal of the law to be declared. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 109 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 676 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84848	We continue with - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a programme to improve the quality and effectiveness of the provision of health services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 688; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. We have Deputy Minister Marian Cesarik with us. Introduce yourself, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84849	Thank you very much. The loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a programme to improve the quality and efficiency of health services was signed on 10 June 2014. The project aims to improve the quality of healthcare and the effectiveness of providing health services in the Republic of Croatia. The national health development strategy 2012-2020 identified strategic problems and reform priorities for the health sector. These are weak links and insufficient continuity in healthcare at all levels, primary, secondary and tertiary health systems, unequal and unknown quality of health care, insufficient efficiency and effectiveness of health care systems, poor or unequal availability of health care across regions, relatively poor health indicators particularly indicators of risk factors and behaviour towards their own health. The quality improvement programme and the effectiveness of providing health services comprises 5 of the 8 priorities of the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020, which focus on addressing the main health reform challenges. And these are, strengthening the management capacities in health care, reorganising the structure and functioning of health institutions, promoting quality in health care, strengthening preventive activities, preserving financial stability in health. The key results of the program are that the first phase of the master plan of the hospital was implemented and that all the following stages were achieved. The total number of beds for acute treatment has been reduced by 20% from 15 930 to 12 800 and 80% of hospitals have been rationalised without new commitments made in the previous calendar year. The quality control procedures introduced including in 100% of rationalised hospitals were carried out in the previous calendar year and 40% of publicly published most successful hospitals, including results, and at least 50% of rationalised hospitals accredited by the Quality Agency through an acceptable accreditation process. The value of the loan is 75m euros. The overall value of the quality improvement programme and the effectiveness of health care services has been estimated at 180m euros. The programme will be financed by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of 105m euros and by 75m euros in loans. Out of the total amount of loans, 90% of the funds, so 67.5m euros is intended for the finance ministry, while 10% of the loan funds, 7.5m euros is intended for the health ministry. Loans intended for the Ministry of Health would finance technical assistance in the management of planned interventions and their implementation. Loan funds, therefore intended for the Ministry of Health, would be financed by technical assistance in the management of planned interventions and their implementation, including the production of technical and project documentation and the preparation of requests for withdrawal from EU funds. The establishment and implementation of the Energy Efficiency Programme in the health sector and the preparation of projects to finance EU funds, technical assistance to the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency in the planned implementation of hospital accreditation, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84850	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Committee Chairman Zeljko Jovanovic will submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84851	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Health and Social Policy Committee held a discussion on this topic at the 51st session as a home working body. We also heard from the promoters that the reason for the emergency procedure is because to get into effect the law will allow the withdrawal of the loan funds. We heard today about the 105m-euro amount and the 75m-euro loan funds, the 20-year repayment deadline. What's important is we have a national strategy that lists 8 priorities, 5 of those 8 priorities will be financed from this loan. What led the committee to the most interest, the most debates concerned parts of management capacities, issues of responsibility, quality and safety in health care. Positive investment measures have been assessed which will certainly contribute to improving health conditions and quality in this respect, stressing the need for dedicated and responsible guidance and spending of loan funds. What is most important is that after the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84852	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate, first in line is the HDZ Representatives' Club and colleague Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84853	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, apparently, there is one technical law, but I think we need to look at this law a little bit in the context of time and space when it is passed, and unfortunately very often our political debates in this House that we use for daily political needs. I will immediately say, the HDZ club will support this law for the simple reason that all these funds if you have looked at the materials a little bit better, that it is about 2.57 billion in the past 21 years the Croatian state has received from the Swedish Bank are able to tell God the day of the funds. Why? Because they are given a long term, they are given at a very low interest rate and what is crucial to say, these funds are support for reforms, so these funds are not for exactly the intended thing, these funds will pay for that, but when they are approved in the World Bank, then they are granted the basis of certain reforms that this government should implement, and these financial resources should in principle be facilitated because every reform, we want, we will not, we will not, cost, it should simply be made easier, so I am sorry that perhaps the deputy representative of the promoter has not said more because it may seem a little strange that out of 75 million euros practically 90% goes to the Ministry of Finance, only 10% to the Ministry of Health because that the representative said that the funds go to the Ministry of Finance, so that it would be much clearer. But why did I say that we must look at this law in the context of time and space? So, on the one hand, the minister changed, the new minister said very loudly that he would not support this or what the former minister, and on the other hand what is certainly worrying, is the World Bank leader's statement. So, the statement of whoever granted us this loan, and we can be as angry as we want and all of us who were in executive power, never really had a nice seat, so to speak, when you got a criticism from some international financial institution. However, no matter what you think of them, it is their last. Based on their observations, the basis of their assessment is assessed by the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I'm saying that maybe this law should be looked at in that very context. On the one hand, therefore, all the funds the Republic of Croatia has received over the past 23 years from the World Bank were support and reform. And here I want to make it clear, that's what I was saying when I was a minister and I'm going to speak today as a parliamentary representative, and there's only one elemental question being asked, did those who received these support funds implement those reforms in the way it was drawn out? Because if these reforms were implemented, all these 23 years, then probably the situation in Croatia, at least when we talk about structural reforms in the state administration, it would seem a little different. First of all, in 2 sectors that have often received generous assistance from the World Bank, which is health and education. I can say that as the only Croatian minister who is listed in the book... The World Bank. So on the basis of the 2007 result, I received the award on Wall Street in 2008, which unfortunately means nothing in Croatia, however, some of them looked at it in a scrupulous way. However, as I said, this is the God-given means, so we in Croatia should finally consider building these funds and helping us from institutional banks should finally start implementing these reforms. And let's make sure that no matter what we may never agree with some of the things the World Bank and IMF are asking us to do, but in 80, 90% of things will simply come at some point when we become self-aware that we have to do it. And that is why this World Bank leader's statement that Croatia is not implementing reforms, which is the biggest tragedy that it has a government ready to implement reforms is warning. Warning because the basis of that statement will again give us that credit rating agency that took down our credit rating I'll openly say it unjustly. And I think the biggest mistake of this government was what she said we want to keep a credit rating. If this credit rating has been at one level for years and has been held at that level only because you are not yet an EU member and you are at risk, then this same credit rating agency at the time Croatia finished negotiations, when it had to reward Croatia with a better rating. And then when he rewards us with that better rating, then let him take that rating off. And it's not good that we were saying that we wanted to preserve a rating that had to increase for the reason that we had done a job that we had always had some kind of minus before. But why am I talking about ratings? Because the World Bank leader's opinion will have a major impact on the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, and when these experts from these rating agencies come to Croatia, they will by no means bypass the World Bank Office in Zagreb. And I'm going to say one more thing, why is this loan favourable? Well, for reasons he doesn't register quite differently in accounting. So institutional banks' loans are only the cost at the time you return the principal and the cost is when you pay the interest. Since it is 20 years old that you have 4 years of starting practically the next 4 years except paying interest you have no expense and when we talk about excessive deficit measures, and now I'm going to give you some figures then you'll see that this is not negligible and that's what might be the government's mistake not to adhere to those provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is that it can't be written that the implementation of this law doesn't require funds. It takes funding every year for an average of around 18 million kuna each year, it needs funds at the time of the loan's realisation, which is about 0.25 that's about a million 835 thousand euros, which means a little less than 14 million kuna as a one-time cost and that's the cost of the budget to be paid. So when we talk about the assessment of the necessary funds, it must be listed inside, is that the cost of the year when this contract is signed? We're going to have to pay those 0.25% one-time fees just like we're going to pay the interest rate in the next 20 years according to the interest account as it belongs. And unfortunately, and that interest is very often the account actually the subject of the political accounting in this assembly because among those 9 and some billions of 10 billion interest among other things are these 2.57 billion euros in loans from the World Bank that we have received over the past 21 years. So as I said at the beginning of the HDZ Club will support this bill for the simple reason that all governments were happy when they got this kind of loan from the World Bank in recent years because they couldn't get better and better quality funding and then it wouldn't be fair and correct to support this bill. but I felt the need to say some things because I don't think Croatia has the right to stare at certain problems at this moment and that only our colleagues on the other side of Markov sees the problem of the Republic of Croatia and everyone else sees it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84854	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84855	Dear Vice-President, dear Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is therefore the most significant source of foreign financial assistance for the Republic of Croatia according to the amount of loans granted and technical assistance granted. Therefore, it continuously supports economic and social development and reforms in the economy through investment loans and gifts. So far, the EBRD has granted 54 loans to Croatia, of which 37 direct and 17 with state guarantees, 1 advance worth 2.6 billion euros and 52 donations worth a total of 52 million euros. The EBRD is one of the international financial institutions within the World Bank Group founded in 1945, so after World War II with the aim of helping underdeveloped countries fight poverty and foster economic development. In other words, reforms in certain segments in certain systems and overall country progress. The Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the EBRD since 1993, with a registered capital of $321 million. The competent authority for cooperation with the World Bank group is the Ministry of Finance, and the finance minister is the governor of the World Bank of Croatia. In other words, the Ministry of Finance is authorised on behalf of the Republic of Croatia to carry out all transactions and transactions under the Statute of the World Bank. In this regard, the finance minister signed a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD on 10 June of this year for the Quality Improvement and Efficiency Programme for the provision of health services, and the Croatian Parliament should confirm the contract in question by this law which we are discussing today. By agreement Croatia assumes the obligation to pay loans and interest and other costs related to the use of the loan itself. And here's a few very specific words about the program. The programme covers five of the total 8 reform priorities of the National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020 and these are the following priorities. Therefore, the first strengthening of management capacities in health care, the second priority of reorganisation of the structure and operation of health institutions, the third is to promote the quality of health care, the fourth strengthening of preventive activities and the fifth preservation of financial stability of the health system. A detailed description of the activities envisaged by the programme is set out in Annex 1 to the Treaty so that all activities should be completed by mid- 2018. The programme will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Agency, with implementing solutions detailed in the attached 2 contracts, and the EBRD will occasionally request an assessment or audit of independent agencies on how programming activities are carried out and, of course, how loans are spent. The total value of the programme is 180m euros, with 105m euros being secured from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and 75m from the EBRD loan, which is just today. And at the end of a few more basic loan parameters, those financial parameters, of course, the principal, as I said, is 75 million euros, the interest is equal to the reference interest rate, so this is Euribor, which currently stands at around 0.4% and is increasing by a fixed margin, it is at 0.6%. With the emphasis to be made, the lender has provided for a conversion of all aspects of the loan agreement related to the principal and interest rate. A one-time starting fee shall be 0.25% of the loan amount and shall be paid within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the loan, with the loan taking effect within 90 days of the date of signature of the contract. The payment time is 15 years with a start of 4 years, the payment starts on 15 May 2018 and ends on 15 November 2033. The loan war is paid twice a year, so on 15 May and 15 November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84856	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84857	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Vice-President and Deputy Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, we will immediately support the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a programme to improve the quality and effectiveness of the provision of health services with the Final Proposal for the Law. Thus, the introduction also said colleagues and colleagues have already highlighted both the importance and role of the World Bank and a little debate on what the funds will be used for. I, on behalf of the HNS Club, will therefore just point out what is important and clear for our citizens and for the public when loans are taken, when certain commitments are made, when public debt is eventually raised and raised in the end, to know exactly what that purpose is, the clear purpose of which is the effectiveness of essentially these funds, what is the benefit of the citizens for which we take it. And I would also like to point out what in the introduction and it is not said that at this point the interest and those fixed margins would be about 0.4%, so much is Euro LIBOR plus a fixed margin 0.6, which is somewhere around 1%, which is really one extremely low level of debt at the moment with those 0.25% of the fees to be paid. Therefore, these are certain amounts which are positive especially if it is said that this positive low interest rate is also going as is partly said in the introduction to strengthening the management capacity in health, reorganisation, formation and operation of health institutions. And this means under (a) the implementation of master plans for hospitals, hospital reform, change of management and handling, under (b) the promotion of group practices for primary healthcare doctors, which is extremely important to us in strengthening primary protection as one prevention, (c) the extension of outpatient services at secondary health care level including centres for non-patient patients with sophisticated high resolution technology, (d) the redefining of long-term health services and palitative care, we know how important we are at this point and how insufficient it is in terms of needs. Then that segment of the group would say the groups to which this health care, this loan, a group that is entitled to promote quality in health care and strengthen preventive activities. So under (a) implementation of the hospital accreditation mechanism, under (b) application of an evaluation of health technologies to selected new health technologies, under (c) making clinical protocols and guidelines for care procedures, under (d) detection and appropriate recorded specific and unexpected adverse events for quality, means absolute quality and efficiency is important and the link of this loan itself. Afterwards, the implementation of technical supervision and the establishment of payment mechanisms to encourage the use of clinical guidelines. Under f) use of an existing e-recept system or i-recept for quality control purposes. And she's the last group to preserve the financial stability of health care. (a) further development of central procurement for medical and non-medical and non-medical supplies, under (b) rationalisation of non-medical services, under (c) placing an emphasis on the component of success in paying to hospitals and non-patient services and under (d) development of the capacity of the Ministry of Health for the production and submission of proposals for funding from the Structural Funds of the European Union. So all of this when we look at that last state audit that we had in 2011, hospital systems and masterplans and reforms that are being implemented, difficult reforms but they are being implemented in the health system, with funds from the budget, with the means of this loan, according to a strictly defined programme, because all of this is written and must be implemented in order to justify the funds of the loan, otherwise it should be returned, is something that raises and primary protection that is absolutely priority in our health care system, but it also achieves that efficiency and quality for citizens and citizens, which is key and task in being the health ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84858	Thank you too, colleague. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84859	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's today's mixed program and something from the health ministry program as it's named after the new one. It is the fact that the HDSSB Club will also support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Loan of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Health Service Quality and Efficiency Programme, with the final proposal for a law. It is the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 75m euros or 550m kuna, with the Republic of Croatia providing additional 105m euros or 850m kuna, which is a total of a billion and 400m kuna. As for the technical details about the loan itself where it started to say four years, so-called. Grace period and the method of payment and I wouldn't want to talk much, Mr. Shucker, who is a financial expert, he's already said it, but I'd rather look at the health reform itself which I would say a bit in wandering considering the leaders of the Ministry of Health. We have also talked in the first place about strengthening the management capacities in health and reorganising the structure and activities of health institutions, and under a) immediately writes the implementation of masterplans for hospitals, hospital reforms, change of management and management. And right away we have to say that one minister stood up for the masterplan, and the other one is talking about the removal of the masterplan and that's why we're raising and one part of the money goes into it. Well, now what to say about this. Also Part 3, preserving the financial stability of health care, we have a point or item b where it says rationalization of non-medical services. What are nonmedical services? So non-medical services in medical institutions are exactly what there were conversations and words and wandering from outsourcing to spin off. For months we've mentioned outsourcing and the government is talking about outsourcing, so we have to say moving these services that aren't medical and so we can say, we don't have to use the word outsourcing at all. We have our domestic Croatian words that would be quite appropriate to these English terms. And now we have a new expression spin off or if we translate it into that meaning in which, therefore, rounding all these services into a large state-owned company that one would manage and that would be, although word off very often goes one other verb, which the unions would know very well so they used in private conversations instead of spin one other English verb for which I wouldn't, I wouldn't say it here for a pay phone. Over the past 20 years, the World Bank has helped or granted loans to the Republic of Croatia through 52 programmes of 2.6 billion euros. In addition, it must be noted, and to some extent thanks to the fact that we received a gift of 52m euros from that same bank, which is a fine example of helping the Republic of Croatia. And now we're going to do what's important, which is why we're actually raising this loan, why we're getting a 75 million-euro loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the first part, this applies to this very strengthening of the management capacity. He says there's a masterplan for hospitals. I wish the text of this law would explain more closely, which means promoting group practice for primary healthcare doctors. I'm more interested in what it is, so we know what it's going to be used in. Furthermore, the expansion of extra-patient services at secondary healthcare level, including centres for extra-patient patients with sophisticated high-resolution technology. If so, these or something else, these ECMO appliances, which have been purchased in Croatia so much that we have more than half of all EU countries starting with Sweden, Germany, France, etc. Is that a rational spending of money? Is this the rational availability of money that our insurance companies also set aside at a height now of 15%. There were 13 so now 15% to get so many machines that they were not together Sweden, Slovenia and France together. In the second part, it writes to promote quality in healthcare and strengthen preventive activities. Quality in health care. We have always admired and never said that our quality of our health care and our health care is weaker than in any other European country and beyond. Let us look at health care in some non-European countries, not to talk about exotic areas or others now, or who is found in some kind of Bombay or recently in India to see what health care is, on which the foundation is based and the Croatian health system. So here, we encourage the implementation of the hospital accreditation mechanism. And accreditation hospitals is a process that knows and Mr. Deputy is going on I don't know. Hospital accreditation has been talked about since I was in surgical practice for seven, eight years. So this process is still ongoing and has not yet been completed. When will it be over? Will this loan finally be accredited to all Croatian hospitals I don't know, but I'm afraid it won't. Go on. Application of a health technology assessment to selected new health technologies. Is it again possible that this ECMO apparatus or something falls under that point? What are the high-tech technologies that the Croatian state and Croatian ministries would be obliged to obtain and apply in Croatian health care. And that would be better if we were told more extensively. Making clinical protocols and guidelines for treatment procedures. So, the algorithm of taking care of certain or illnesses or injuries or ways of dealing with a patient in certain situations. Who taught us this in the 1990s, the second year about the way and algorithm of procedures for the care of war wounds and war injuries at wartime, and we had results better than we did, far better than American healthcare and American military doctors had in Vietnam. And now after 20 years and more, even though Croatian doctors well know the treatment algorithms of any injury or disease we now have here to say making clinical protocols as something that makes us need a loan like this. Monitoring and appropriate recording of specific unexpected adverse events for quality. Each hospital has an assistant quality director, each of the county hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, Slavonski Brod now has only one since the town's master plan was an example, a visual example of the annexation of the New Town hospital to the Slavonski Brod hospital, and Pakraca, the hospital in Pakrac to the hot hospital. These are the only two master plans I know of, so in each of these hospitals there is also an assistant director of quality. But here we also have an unexpected, unwanted event for quality. It would be a good idea to write specifically what it's meant to be. The implementation of technical surveillance and the establishment of payment mechanisms to encourage the use of clinical guidelines. It's more like there wouldn't be a lawsuit at the hospitals. So algorithms and application of certain algorithms are a matter of profession and each profession prescribes it. Neither can the Ministry of Health, well it can adopt, but there are also societies surgically, interstitically, cardiologically, infectologically, etc. which is prescribed in accordance with the latest scientific achievements of the guidelines and algorithm of procedures in certain diseases from the domain of each of these branches of medicine. And now this e-recept. Thank God, here I have raised the recipe prescribed in the Slavonski Brod in Zagreb, which is very good and I support and welcome and have no critical words for this way, the possibility of e-recepting. If I could raise that e-recept, say, in Brussels or Paris, it would be great. On the further development of central procurement for medical and non-medical supplies and on the acquisition of supplies mainly medical, about the lack of a needle and end in surgical halls which are almost permanent and almost all hospitals would not want to enter into the debate because it would be very long. But in any case, I don't believe that the use and distribution of this loan will contribute greatly to solving this problem. Emphasis on the component of success in paying to hospitals and the development of the capacities of the Ministry of Health for Making... EU structural funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are still the two points added. Most of the time, let me get this straight. All this is for nothing to us if there is a loan of 750 million euros or 5 billion or 5 and a half billion when we know about the accumulation of our health debt, the accumulation of debts from hospitals, what do these debts come from in the first place? And until the GDP is higher, so as to fill the better and better, i.e. this health insurance fund, which is intended to be detached from the Treasury, will be difficult for us to get to a better branch. We can borrow as much as we want but we will borrow and repay, but to Croatian healthcare it is hard to say this 180 now million euros from which the Republic of Croatia provides 105 and the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development 75 is difficult to, in fact I would not say that a drop in the sea of what is needed for Croatian health, perhaps two, three drops in that sea, so let's do something more. The health problems remain and let's not let anyone say the head of the World Bank, or their establishment in Zagreb, without some reforms of deeper and without certain changes in health care, we will have a doctor's outflow abroad, we will have doctor's departures and a difficult situation with an extended waiting list and everything else negative that happens in our health. In any case, two, three drops should drop into that healthcare club of the HDSSB will be for that, and therefore we will support this legislative proposal, but I must stress that the problems remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84860	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the proposal for a conclusion on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84861	Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a programme to improve the quality of health care efficiency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 688. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and I am asking you to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 109 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. In the text proposed by the applicant, in 688.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84862	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 686; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go, buddy. And we welcome him to his first session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84863	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, colleagues and colleagues, it is my special honor and pleasure to have before you, although we are relatively few, but here is my baptism on this other side of the assembly I believe that I will not disappoint you today or in the future too much. So, before you are the amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. As a result of EU rules and related to the functioning of the financial industry in recent years, the primary objective is to prevent future financial crises as well as the spillover of the crisis between sectors, and the EU Single Market adopted Solvency 2 Directive, whose primary objective was therefore to determine the capital limits that insurance companies must maintain and with a view to reducing the risk of insolvency. The deadline for the transposition of this Directive into national systems is 31.03. next year, and their application must start with 1.01.2016. and will take place on that side and the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to you the adoption of a new Insurance Act as planned for the first quarter of next year. The main reasons why these amendments and amendments were complemented by the future European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA has adopted guidelines in which Member States must amend and report the application already in February, therefore these amendments and additions are therefore proposed on the basis of the Directive as I said Solvency 2 or Solvency 2. They therefore allow the application of the above guidelines. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the laws were adopted in order to comply with this Directive, and in order to apply the EIOPA guidelines and this guidance in the management system, the guidelines for the submission of information to national competent authorities and the guidelines for an anti-cipatative assessment of the company’s own risks. These guidelines therefore require insurance companies to necessarily adopt the following functions although large insurance companies in Europe also have secured functions, 4 basic functions, risk management functions, compliance monitoring functions, internal audit functions and actuarial functions. So on the basis of the single market, there is a kind of standardisation. In addition to the above-mentioned harmonisations to EIOPA standards, this law aligns the amount of Tier 1 capital as referred to in Article 9. The law on the insurance of that guarantee capital and these amounts are calculated in such a way that the underlying capital must not be less than 19,5 and 28,86 million kuna respectively, and the insolvency margin on the basis of the premiums is increased to 478,14 million kuna and based on the damage to 334,62. Why these numbers? And I got a little confused, so that's where we're between actually hammers and anvils. On the one hand, the Insurance Act prescribes that these amounts must be in kuna, and the guidelines therefore prescribe a lower limit in euro. The last calculations were based on a course of 7.5 and then when we break through those courses so we don't keep coming to you with changes and additions this time we did it on something higher and we believe that at the course level and if it hasn't been for the last 10, 15 years achieved 7.8 we believe that this time it will be more than enough so that we don't go into these technical changes and supplement laws. Well, that's so you wouldn't be confused by those numbers that aren't rounded up because it's not a custom in this House. In addition, provisions in relation to the indirect or direct acquisition of a qualifying share in society have been developed and the rights and obligations of the intended acquirer and the obligations of the HANFA and the deadlines in which it decides uniformly with the other laws that we have adopted here, and where the HANFA is the regulator and supervisor. On the proposal of industry itself, and with the agreement of all the participants involved in these amendments and additions to the law, an insurance assistant institute was introduced, a natural person who will therefore, on the basis of employment or other legal relationship, assist the insurance agent in bringing him into contact with a potential insurance contractor with compensation, so without a licence but the conclusion of the contract itself will certainly be licensed. On this side, we expect that in some ways we will only encourage the labour market. It is also prescribed to extend the circle of activities that can be carried out, insurance and E insurance brokerage companies and those, with this proposal to amend and supplement, can also offer the shares of investment funds, voluntary pension funds and pension insurance companies, and all in accordance with the laws governing those areas. In accordance with Directive 2002/92, the amounts related to insurance liability insurance companies carrying out insurance representation activities for several insurance companies, etc. multiple representation of these insurance brokerage companies and E insurance companies. In addition to all of the above, more detailed control has been prescribed at the Croatian Insurance Office, which has been carried out by HANFA, and has been more specifically completed and more precise certain infringements of certain infringements of these amendments and additions. The last and certainly not least important proposal for these amendments and additions passed the meetings of all working bodies which showed interest, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Budgets and Finance. The Committee on Budgets and Finance had three amendments to the Committee itself and the amendments were adopted, the members of the Committee know, which the Government therefore accepted at its meeting yesterday and supported and thus become an integral part of this proposal. Here, so many colleagues and colleagues. I believe enough to accept these amendments and supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84864	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84865	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister here I am taking the opportunity to congratulate you on behalf of the SDP Club and wish you successful work in this responsible place. Our colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Insurance Act. The complex subject matter covered by this Regulation is to regulate the conditions for the establishment and operation of an insurance company, to carry out internal audits and audits of insurance companies, to winding-up and bankruptcy proceedings, to carry out representation and intervention activities in insurance, to the powers of the supervisory authority and to exercise supervision. This regulation also regulates consumer protection, insurance organisations because insurance is the form of insurance association. This has been resolved by the Insurance Act adopted in 2005, and amendments and additions, and until now the three amendments and additions have been discussed, have been resolved in a gradual and more transparent manner and the possibility of supervision as well as the adaptation of EU regulations, in order to primarily achieve standardisation of the legislative framework and functioning in the context of the Single Financial European Market. As I said, we have before us the fourth amendments and additions to the Insurance Act in order to enable the implementation of the guidelines of the European Insurance Supervisory Authority and the occupational pension insurance in such a way that insurance companies and reinsurance companies can take appropriate steps in order to prepare in due time for the establishment of a new legal framework. These amendments also allow for the application of guidelines in the management system, guidelines for the submission of information to national competent authorities, as well as guidelines for the anti-cipatative assessment of the company’s own risks. Following these guidelines, the core capital of the insurance company as well as the reinsurance companies is increased in order to meet the amounts in the relevant EU regulations, i.e. to inform the European Commission of the adjustment of certain amounts under the Reinsurance Directive. The conditions laid down very precisely for the management and supervisory board of the insurance company are extended, the obligations of a member of the insurance company’s management company with regard to the implementation of supervisory measures in accordance with the rules on risk management, the establishment of a precise and clear and consistent internal relationship with regard to accountability, which will ensure a clear distinction of the powers of responsibility and prevent conflicts of interest as well as the approval and regular review of risk management strategies and policies with clearly defined deadlines. The conditions for issuing the authorisation to carry out the tasks of an authorised actuary are complemented, which is certainly good, this responsible work will be able to be carried out by a person with a good reputation, professional capacity and at least three years of working experience not legally convicted of criminal offences against property, criminal offences against the economy, against counterfeiting, criminal acts against security, payment and business, and criminal offences against the credibility of the documents. Expansion of these property offences is certainly good and we welcome this, given that today's provisions have prevented the authorisation from being granted only in the event of criminal offences against payment and business security. The text of these amendments and additions incorporates key functions within the system of management of the sequence which is required for the insurance company to establish a risk management function, a compliance monitoring function, an internal audit function and a current function, and clearly, with clear and precise conditions that must be met by the person to perform the key function. It is also prescribed to establish a control function in order to avoid a possible conflict of interest with the obligation to take measures to determine, detect, prevent and eliminate conflicts of interest whose existence could harm the interests of insurance contractors, insurance undertakings or users of the insurance contract. In order to prevent conflicts of interest and to take inappropriate risks in business, the remuneration policy of members of the board of directors and supervisory board is also foreseen. The introduction of supervisory authorities and its powers and the duration of the term of office were introduced in the event of the need for detailed assessment and monitoring of the financial situation and of the conditions of operation of the insurance company. The introduction of insurance assistants will enable professional training of persons to prepare for the verification of expertise in obtaining the authorisation, to carry out the tasks for entering the insurance of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. In addition to all these amendments and harmonisations, it is in line with the Law on Credit Institutions and the Company Act. Because of what I have said in advance, the SDP club will support these amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84866	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84867	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, a few remarks in the second reading. First of all, the technical nature of one remark, Mr. Deputy doesn't say what the differences are compared to the first reading, so I suppose there's no difference, but it's common to highlight the differences in the second reading compared to the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84868	It's an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84869	As far as the Insurance Act is concerned, for its representatives, one really technical mistake. He writes, Finance Minister Lalovac, Mr Boris Lalovac and Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac, twice writes in two functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84870	We've received a sub-replacement notice, but it's not on the benches yet, or maybe it's being shared now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84871	We heard in the explanation that article 19 was changed, which is the current article 9, the capital ratio due to the exchange rate change. It's a good thing there's a harmonised level of core capital, but it's not just because of a change in course. If it was the capital of 15 million kuna, and now it's 19 million and 500 thousand, if it was 22 and 500 for all kinds of non-life insurance, now 28 million and 860 thousand, etc. Then there is even the smallest minimum share capital increased significantly by 30%, not just due to exchange rate differences. It could easily be rounded up to 30 million and 20 million, so it could be more operational, clearer, but it's not some big grudge. What I have is also a HDZ club which has several constant objections to the bill's proposals, which is an unclear criterion when listed in a particular bill. In Article 22a, the supervisory authority shall assess the suitability and financial status of the acquirer of the qualifying holding according to the following criteria when deciding on the prior authorisation for the acquisition of a qualifying holding. The name of the acquirer, under two respects, the relevant abilities and experience of any person who will, after obtaining, manage the activities of the insurance company’s management and the possibilities under paragraph 4, continue to comply with the provisions of this law. These criteria, when clearly stated, should be measurable and verifiable, and these criteria are neither measurable nor verifiable because the reputation of the acquirer cannot be measured, neither can the reputation and ability of those who may be able to run the business of the society, meaning neither can these criteria be measured, nor can they be checked whether they are correct. Therefore, these types of criteria should be avoided when spoken and passed by law. As regards Article 15, which amends Article 27 and talks about the members of the administration, we think it would be better if, when it comes to the rather professional business of managing insurance companies, that the appropriate expert preparation required for the members of the administration is the same and more clearly prescribed. In particular, in this case, it would be more acceptable for economists to lead, to be members of the administration of insurance companies, but according to this proposal, a member of the administration may be a dentist, but an economist can never perform dental tasks or so on and an architect or anyone who completes a professional study, which I also think could be... extremely demanding and responsible tasks and that it would have to be someone in the administration who graduated from the Faculty of Economics. And I think this is how economic science, economic profession and economic college are being systematically demoted in general. It's about who can't be a member of the board. Again, we have criteria, or we have a good role, a business ability, and we have witnessed how many of them had a temporary good reputation, and then that reputation turns out to be quite different. And if a person may not have a good reputation, perhaps you should deserve it because he may be unjust in public and not enjoying a good reputation. There are both, but these are very broad terms, so it shouldn't be in legal solutions. But a member of the administration should not be the one who is a taxpayer, and here there is no exception to a member of the administration for those who are not taxpayers. It is stated that under the professional qualifications of the same Article 3 and experience, at least three years of experience in the management of the insurance or reinsurance company is not subject to experience under professional qualifications. Experience is subject to experience, and professional qualifications are precisely known as professional qualifications and it is good to have professional qualifications, but to indicate which professional qualifications they are. So it's not defined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I don't know, it can probably always come to a certain situation, but what happens if the approval is granted and someone doesn't meet the conditions. The question arises how is he granted approval if he does not meet the requirements? As regards Article 92h of the award policy, one vague definition, again under paragraph 2 of the insurance company's remuneration procedure, must consistently promote effective risk management and not encourage taking risks that are not in line with the risk profile of the insurance company. I don't know how to define encouraging risk taking. Again too many vague and undefined concepts, we could certainly have avoided it in some way. Under Article 3(3), the remuneration policy of the insurance company must comply with the business strategy, objectives and size of the insurance company. Again, an undefined definition. What does it mean to align the award policy with the strategy? Well, it's a legal obligation, but I don't know how now a member of the administration can fulfil that legal obligation. It can be theoretically blended but too many vague specifics. The Management Board of the Insurance Company shall adopt and at least once a year review the general principles of the award policy and shall be responsible for their application. This means that the administration of society determines for itself the principles of award. For the management of society, the Supervisory Board should always adopt a remuneration policy for the administration of society. As for Article 157g, this seems to me to be the most controversial everything else we can somehow and more suggestively that the next time the changes are made when they come to include these remarks and consider, but this is something that I think may be the rest of another legal framework, where it says that the supervisory entity means the insurance company is obliged by the supervisory authority to provide all the required business documentation, which is logical and what it needs, computer records that include e-mail records, accounts of the business books, and that makes sense to me, the records of the phone conversations, and that's already a little bit, the recordings of phone conversations. I don't know who has the right to record phone calls, let alone give them and teach them. I think there should be a solution here to sort of, I'm not sure how legally possible that is, and legal certainty is infringing. Furthermore, the supervisory entity is obliged to provide the authorised person with a standard interface for access to the database management system... benefit for the purpose of carrying out the supervision of the computerised programmes. I fear that a standard interface can lead to certain damages that can be caused by an authorised person from a supervisory authority and that in such cases it is always accessible to enable insight but not to be done directly and to provide a standard interface. But especially that part that talks about the recording of phone conversations and phone records, I think it would be good for the government itself to submit an amendment to this part and this part of this bill, only this part to be cast out. And regardless of these other allegations and suggestions, the HDZ Club will, because of the importance of the law, because of the importance of the matter being regulated by the legal framework and because of the urgency of the procedure, support this proposal, but please consider what may be legally impregnable and questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84872	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84873	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Assistant Minister. When we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Insurance Act, with the Final Bill proposal, then it is not bad in the introduction that it is essentially about 27 companies if I am not mistaken at this point by insurance companies and one with reassurance, that it is about gross premiums of 9 billion kuna that were around 2012, 2013 is about somewhere, that it is also about the fact that in life insurance of some 27% of those of 9 billion premiums, and in non-life insurances about 72% it is also important and important to stress when we talk about the law that we know the relationship and the relationship that around the assets, the total assets of those 27 companies and one resector about 35 billion kuna. And also when we talk about a passive that in gross mathematical reserve for life is about 13.4 billion kuna and that in non-life insurance it's 9.6 billion. And that all these assets are mainly invested in securities either with maturity or with the possibility of being converted immediately into liquid assets in order to maintain the stability of insurance companies and, where appropriate, to pay for the damages. Also, I could say the name of the HNS Club as well as that of the new law, given that there are many changes that are quite significant, not only an increase in the guarantee capital which is natural and logical, given that, due to the increase in the consumer price index, but also for the safety of which it is constantly being done both in the monetary sphere and in this financial, non-financial sphere, which is absolutely clear and the amounts that I have spoken about in the introduction of both assets and incomes are quite clear that we have to take great care of these situations independently of course on the legislative legislation that we are harmonising with the European Union directives. What is certainly important to stress is that most articles highlight certain new obligations and certain new criteria that are very strict and lead to them as high as possible and supervised. So we also have situations where the supervisory board is also required to be notified if there are certain situations that are not in line after HANFA's surveillance. It is also the obligation of the Supervisory Board to be much more active and not only to receive reports on the recording of the work of the administration. When we talk about risk management, risk management and risk management functions, it is extremely clear in this law and describes in detail how it will be done within insurance companies and, of course, related to control from HANFA. Because, in addition to all these powers that receive new and obligations and responsibilities, managers of insurance companies are also getting something new in terms of certain jobs, which is certainly not a small matter, given that they have so far failed to deal with and that is to say that they are allowed to carry out the activities of supplying investment funds, offers of pension programmes, voluntary pension funds and pension insurance companies, in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the operations of investment funds, voluntary pension funds and pension insurance companies. So we, with this law, provide insurance companies with the opportunity to expand their activity which, and we know how sensitive the issue and investment of pension insurance companies, i.e. pension funds, is because it is again out of some 57, 58 billion that they can actually do well if they have adequate and fit and management to participate in certain securities, bonds or shares under the Law on Mandatory and Other Pensions. Therefore, this law is a new law not only based on these criteria that we have within the European Union to raise the level of guarantee capital, reduce risks, introduce greater controls and supervisory boards and administrations, and by HANFA, but also opens up a space for new business activities, not small business activities. And we, I can say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, believe that this opening is not a space for new activities and new employment within insurance companies that will open up more quality space and strengthen the capital market, which is also extremely important for the growth of the economy both for foreign and domestic investments at this point in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84874	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the proposer, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84875	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's a quick look and actually thank the representatives of all three clubs who have shown therefore support and good intentions, suggestions and objections to this law. As I said in the introduction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose for the first quarter of next year a new Insurance Act and we will certainly respect all the comments made on boards and certainly today at the plenary session and I thank you for them. Every time I was on the other side, I was happy and happy when the debate went through in a tone like this. There are topics to be confronted about but these are really very important laws and very complex laws and sometimes also tiring and of course to the general public but the consequences in possible holes in these laws can be very difficult. We didn't feel them in Croatia, I'm not just talking about this law now, but the whole spectrum of the law, we didn't feel what it means when the financial market trembles and it's good that we didn't feel it. And so if, sometimes it is tiring, it's good to weigh every detail of this law. Just let me take a look at one, two comments, my colleague Maric was talking about, so I was just saying at the outset that we were also coordinating around the uncircumcised numbers and he said that 30% of the insolvency line had increased. You missed Mr Maric in the last paragraph of Article 99 of the accession of Croatia to the European Union, so that level rose from 375 million to 459 750 then, so this lift was not but only this exchange rate, so we did not raise it. On the day of accession, this lower level automatically jumped, and therefore the insolvency limit did not rise 30% but as much as required by the course. As far as good reputation is concerned, these are the criteria that you have said measurable and verifiable and other laws, so we have prescribed a similar syntagma and we are talking about it, so also about the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on Leasing, and we say that it will, for example in the Law on Credit Institutions, make it a sublegal act, and let's say in the Law on Leasing, the HANFA has already passed its own rule, so we've brought the same syntagma a good reputation. She passed that rule in the second month of this year if I'm not mistaken and he's quite detailing that good reputation, so I'm calling on you and all of us who are interested in looking at that rule together, so eventually we see more clearly and more specifically what this good reputation means and whether the HANFA or the CNB within their jurisdiction prescribed it well. As far as this article 157 is concerned, I agree with you that the provisions seem rather strict. As one politician says, trust is good, control is even better, it's good that control mechanisms have the ability to review all records. What I can promise you at this time, that during these amendments and the addition of the law we will look closely at this repressive tool which, in fact, when we adopt a new law, we will look closely at which repressive tool stands to the regulator when checking whether, in its actions, everything was in accordance with the laws and regulations. But when we talk about insurance, here's a life example, if you sign up, I guess that's what I'm saying, but I'm saying we're going to check it out until the end, if you're reporting certain damage to the car or something, then in that context, it's being considered that these conversations are being recorded. About as much as consumer protection when you call those T-Com automatic phones or any other operator, not to advertise them, and then they tell you the conversation is recorded. So in this context, and you know that certain misunderstandings can occur in insurance, even though there have been misunderstandings and that regulation on that side is good, then in that context, you would record that phone conversation. At least that's how I realized it in what I've been getting so far. But here from the pay phone and from the position of the new responsibility I bear, I can promise you that until the adoption of the new law in the first quarter of next year, we will discuss this article in this article in detail and in two or three other laws in which we give power specifically to HANFA. Here's another thank you to everyone and I believe from everything I've said that these amendments and additions will be voted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84876	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84877	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, what you said in other laws has a good reputation, it does, I warned you, but it's not yet proof that it should stand in any legislative proposal. Although he will define himself closer, but he is impossible, I say he is not quantifiable in any case or verifiable, but what's worst is variable, and something that is variable cannot be a condition, that's what this is about. A good reputation is a variable category and what happens to it then, an invalid becomes, and we can't measure it. So this was an opportunity for me, not because of this law, but that such definitions should not stand in any legislative proposal, so I also said in this one, but it is no difference from others in this regard. As for recorded phone conversations, no one has the right to record phone conversations, and if anyone says this conversation is recorded then I stop talking because he doesn't have the right to record me if I don't want to. And those who answer the answering machine and warn about recording, it is not this obligation to continue the conversation, he can interrupt. But the damage to cars doesn't sign up for the phone, so there's nothing to record who in the insurance companies and no one has the right to do that. And I don't know what's in the background to look for phone records. So we're not going to turn into something that's unnatural and it doesn't fit these times that we live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84878	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84879	Here's a very short one. In my previous role these days, I have been quite a bit in these phone conversations both in the media and in everything and I absolutely agree with you that we need to clearly determine the rules of the game on this side, etc. I say, consulting with both Ms. Assistant and what we could see at this point is this model,...on the consumer protection model. Of course, the final application is granted and actually the insurance application has to be submitted in writing, but obviously there are some reasons, but as I said in detail and we're going to thoroughly check it out, so we're going to see for sure these six months. I believe that both colleagues from HANFA and everything else, given this parliamentary debate, we will invite them, and directly, they may have the right to apply this law far more effectively than they might have done, and that you here and we have not all warned about it together. As for a good reputation, if possible, it is not possible to define it. I said that, right from the Leasing Act, the HANFA adopted a rule this year in the second month, which describes in detail what this good reputation should mean or should not mean. I call upon you, in the act of your goodwill, to make a concrete and positive contribution to this law, to also look at this rule, is available, of course, and publicly, so that we can see whether this good reputation is well defined on that side, and if it is not that we can also make our contribution and that we can even better define it. Here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84880	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84881	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 686. The debate on the final bill is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline foreseen by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of that Rules of Procedure, I am voting on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 17 abstentions, have agreed to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am asking the representative of the respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic, and I can welcome him from this table for the first time as deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84882	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Government's amendment to Article 76, which has been added to Article 175g, amends paragraph 3 in such a way as not to impose any obligation on the supervised entity that the authorised supervisory authority, on its request, must submit records of telephone conversations and recordings of telephone conversations, since the supervisory entity is not obliged or authorised to record telephone conversations and the transparency and legality of the prescribed obligation is also questionable. In the same way we solved actually... [[The speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84883	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I estimate there are no interested. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who am I for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes for and 3 votes against and 18 abstentions have been accepted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the final proposal of the law to be declared. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 87 votes in favour, 21 abstentions, have passed the law P.Z.E. No. 686 in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendment adopted. We have to go back, I apologize to everyone. ... We'll do it again, I'm sorry, we'll do it again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, on the amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has declared itself, but please return to the amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Amendment No 1 to Article 110
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84884	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are three amendments, if I can make it easier, all three of us accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84885	All three of us?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84886	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84887	Thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final bill. It's a new circumstance, so I'm asking for a new statement. Who is the final draft of the law after the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted, I ask that we declare ourselves by raising our hands. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 for and 22 abstentions have been passed by law P.Z.E. No. 686 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. One more apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84888	We move to - Final proposal of the factoring law, second reading, P.Z. No. 621. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The bill will also be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84889	Thank you again, Madam Vice President. It's going to be a lot easier now. I broke the ice. This is already the second law. It's a second reading, so let me just say in the opening few minutes that there has been no such thing in Croatia so far, and you know it, there was no law that regulated this activity. That the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, so from the 3rd session of this year, actually tasked the government to pass such a law, that the Ministry of Finance, with the technical assistance of the EBRD, had established a working group and, with the help of their consultants, had just drawn up a draft bill. That the first reading was conducted in April this year, that the Parliament, therefore, accepted it by majority of votes and that, therefore, as part of the standard government procedure from the plenary session, all comments and carried out within the second round of the obvious all prescribed procedures for the adoption of the law were carried out. If it's necessary, I was planning an introduction to maybe say more about the factoring. But here's a few about the factoring currently in Croatia. Maybe I'll just shorten the most important data set, so on March 31st, 15 factoring companies are currently active in Croatia. That these 15 factoring companies achieved 17.3 billion kuna traffic 9.6% more than 12%, that's relatively little compared to some other countries but well. That the net profit of the activity was 178 million kuna and that of the factoring society, so in March they had an activity of around 8.6 billion kuna. Here's a rough one, just to get pictures of how we talk. I say the factoring activity in some other countries is much higher. In Belgium, if I'm not mistaken, so this is about 2 billion euros, Belgium is about 40 billion, in Greece 15 billion purely for comparisons. However, what are the differences between the first and second readings that I am conveying to you today on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Certain nomotechnical remarks of the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament have been accepted and incorporated into the text. That's what you got on the benches about. The comments of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget have also been accepted so that the articles in which the factoring issues of the work have been arranged in a far clearer and more understandable manner. The most significant remark or remark that may have been most said is about the name and the name of the law itself. The suggestion was, therefore, that this law is not called the Buy-In Act and then the factoring cartoon. We have decided, however, not to change the name of this law, that since the purchase of the claim is a broader term, so the wording of the concept of factoring would therefore include the purchase of the claim in that sense the purchases of all kinds of search and dues and unattainable search. This is the case, therefore, in the rule of failures, and the factoring is therefore a financial institution which speaks exclusively of the inaccessible claims arising from the basic supply of goods or services. I say more or less, we're on the common market now. In all countries, at least as far as I'm aware of the permutations of that name are carried out in the same way, therefore flexible and comparable, therefore on the common market of the European Union. What we've changed, we've changed that letter in factoring. So we got the Croatian version, we have no more factoring than is factoring and that is therefore the change that has been made in this respect. As I said, a whole series of remarks have been accepted, the provisions of Articles 4 to 6 are prescribed much more precisely. The term factor was replaced by which it was unclear and this is to refer to the previous point was the objection, in fact the proposal in the debate at first reading by fellow Marić which we accepted to replace the term factor, therefore with the factoring service provider, that in Article 6 of the provision of paragraph 2 on the conduct of a business activity on a continuous basis was completed and moved to Article 21 where it logically belongs, and that the concept of factoring in Article 5 was moved to Article 2 and where the terms of this law are defined. So, to the very beginning. It's not my fault. They did it without a proposal, so without my passing before, before I moved on so that this part of the Parliament's proposal was respected and I believe that we will continue to do so in the future. What was not accepted, and what I was saying in the period, which was also a lot of words in the first reading, is this good reputation that I was just talking about, so in replicas. In the same way is the regulation of a good reputation that we have passed here in the laws on credit institutions of the Leasing Act. In the Law of Leasing, HANFA therefore prescribed that rule and I say I call and all of us together to see if it's good or not. Finally, factoring services are therefore not regulated at EU level, so factoring as such is mentioned in several directives, but I say the factoring market, an important factoring market especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, I think it is good to develop and pass a law that will far better regulate that market. So, factoring transactions you know that it improves the liquidity of business, and then it can certainly positively affect the rentability and creditability of SMEs in particular. So it's not about buying out some hard-to-purchasing claims, it's not about claims that have been made long ago, some other methods, beatings. Now, in preparation for this debate, I have seen such discussions in the first reading. Of course it wasn't about that, it's about a financial instrument that helps you reach a certain breath before you've agreed, and that financially small and medium-sized people get their money easier, they speed up their cash flow, and they certainly do better business. Therefore, we in the Government expect that the amendments and additions of this law will contribute to a positive impact on financial entities and the whole economy, thus raising legal certainty on factoring transactions to better regulate this previously unregulated area and establish both quality and appropriate supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect you to accept this law as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84890	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Ah, Comrade Shucker, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84891	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, it's not clear to me why we're working, forgive my expression, you joke? Factoring means nothing. It is not an English word, and in Croatian it means nothing. And who gave us the right to write the factoring? Because as it's written, it doesn't mean anything. A factoring as it was written factoring it precisely means in English and has its own translation. So we can't because someone doesn't like doing stupid things. Because I'm sorry, the word factoring as it is written in the bill in Croatian doesn't mean anything, it doesn't mean anything in English. The wolf will not be in Croatian laws with full respect for his contribution to describing the Serbian people, but we will not write in the Croatian Parliament according to Vuk. So, I say with all due respect to everyone, but let's not make a circus out of the state, let's not make a circus out of this High House because this word as it says in the law doesn't mean anything. Because if it was original, then you could have let this be the Law on Achieved, Inaccessible claims, but this is how I'm honest with you and the Government's Office of Law and I'm surprised by Croatian linguists who simply didn't respond to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84892	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84893	Here, thank you very much. And I didn't expect you to call it a joke, but we were simply looking for a compromise between what was said in the debate. I say preparing for this debate a good part we unfortunately spent on whether, whether or not factoring and then by several MPs said if it is factoring then it cannot be without the Croatian alphabet etc., etc. But here's with the help of my dear former colleagues the dictionary of the Croatian language of the new... factoring right with k, so Croatian dictionary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the word factoring is... That's exactly what it reads equally, but I don't think this Dom deserves it right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What is the word factoring is mentioned in several laws of the Republic of Croatia and on the other side stands k, in some stands c, and such same creaminess we have discovered unfortunately before and we will change if we have not changed so far we will change everywhere into k and everywhere will stand k and it will be in accordance with Croatian spelling. I don't think that's essential to this law, and here I am inviting all of you to return to the metrics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84894	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. And you clear out the hall if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84895	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this Final Proposal of the factoring law. Although I didn't mean to say on behalf of the SDP club, look back and by the very name it seems to be necessary. So here's how much, I think we all have so much elementary knowledge in Croatian that we know that words that can't be translated into Croatian in full terms and in content are then taken over as spoken and not as written in foreign language. Such phenomena, or words, are countless in our speech. ... I mean, do you want to know what I'm saying to my colleague Lugaric and my colleague Shuker? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll do this again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84896	My colleagues, don't talk to the MPs, you're talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84897	I have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84898	You have no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84899	Yeah, to listen to me 'cause I'm gonna stop Not because they're distracting me, and you're obliged to provide me with peace so I can speak calmly. [[But I don't have to listen to your thoughts.]] At least that's what the Rules of Procedure said, so whether or not they liked it. So, I'll do it again. It's in our best interests, so maybe we'll meet up with a few words like that. So when a word cannot be translated into a Croatian language in the fullness of its content whether it is narrow or wider in terms of the law when it covers it is another thing, it is written in Croatian in such a way as is spoken. We have such words from technical sciences, lots and lots. And TV. So, a whole series of things and discoveries that didn't exist before, where we don't have our own word, if we can't translate into Croatian, or that would literally require a lot, a lot of words, then it seems like this. We tried that and that remark was until we just came up with a simple adequate word for what it covers and the content of this law simply doesn't have. So that's what I'm going to start what might be the most important thing for all the readers of the law, not only is it, but what are the activities of factoring society? So, what is it that all implies this law? This shall be well stated in Article 21(2). However, what concerned the most, not only our citizens, our societies, especially those who came into different problems, and this was this purchase of due enquiries. And that's why we can say, finally, I am here, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, thanking the government for this proposal because it's a wonder that such a proposal, that such a proposal has not arrived for years and whose interests it was that we don't have this bill where money is manipulated, where there has been no transparency of supervision, where it could have seemed more or less what it would have been. It's amazing, many people were left homeless, I don't know if it's true that a few years ago, six, seven years ago, and the government was selling their claims using a factoring that wasn't arranged. So here's lucky we have this bill. And I would start from what essentially respected government official Mr. Radjanovic was saying, which was accepted until the second reading, which is not up to this final proposal. And I think that the right measure has been chosen to respect what was justified and that has improved the nomotechnical structure of this bill, but also substantively, and I also particularly thank you for what the proposals were not accepted for, even if they came from individual committees. So in terms of demand and demand, so I had so many problems, often and then with the Constitutional Court finally and justifiablely, that we speak an unequal language when we talk about legal concepts. Therefore, here is a good idea that you did not respect this observation that the claim, that the demand is replaced by the word claim because it is precisely the concept that still exists and that it is fortunate to exist for the sake of the purity of religious, debt relations which the Law on Mandatory Relations speaks of in detail. So, it's a good thing we didn't violate the content and the name of that concept. What is stated in the explanation, I would like to point out in particular, therefore, that this factoring is an alternative form and funding, but here is the ransom. That he can be useful for both sides in this way, so also for the factoring service provider and the donor, so for all those small, medium, especially for small medium-sized enterprises that come into financial jam to put it that way. And as Mr. Radjenovic said, there is no single definition of factoring at EU level and it is essentially different, and as soon as there is no unique definition it is not even uniformly regulated. There are, there are several directives. If, if not Croatia, but if Europe needs AK anywhere, then that's exactly what's in this domain, in this domain. And I think that Croatia has, regardless of its economic difficulties, which I think is the way out of it slowly, there is so much self-awareness and justification for these issues being raised as one of our initiatives at the Council of Ministers level. It's good to do more things. I will especially note that the supervision of credit institutions performing factoring activities within their registered activities are the competences of the Croatian National Bank and these other supervisions of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. It is certain that this law will also contribute to further development of precisely factoring services that, regardless of the dangers, if they are not regulated, can be used by both providers and recipients of this service, and ultimately help the economy as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84900	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84901	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So, we discussed this law extensively on 4 April 2014, we reached a conclusion that accepted the proposal of the factoring law. The law, according to the introduction, has no need to repeat itself, is extremely important because so far it has not been covered by the legal regulatory factoring in that segment that it should have, the function should have been done by HANFA, the Croatian National Bank was working on its own issues and supervision of the banking system, but this second segment that remained outside was not controlled. We have heard that these are billions that are spinning, turning, and especially now by entering the EU and including both equal status and foreign factoring agencies need to make a good law, a good framework that should be applied. And of course it's always for the development and market of the economy and the development of the capital market, in fact, the development of the economy, on the other hand, to ensure that there is no disturbance because it's really large amounts, and of course of one chain related to the purchase of claims. What I would like to make an emphasis on, and that is, on these transitional and final provisions in the first reading, we had a proposal to state everything by the proposings, or all the rules that should be adopted, about 18, as far as I can see from the first proposal, and now it is stated in Article 16, that it is only necessary to go according to the articles of the law to get out of all the rules. We believe that it is essential that it is clearly stated, and it is much more quality when there are rules that are stated, which should be brought, that we can monitor whether it is more legible, it is clearer when it says exactly which regulations we have to make, rather than looking at articles uphill and downhill, which would say, that we are monitoring whether it will be HANFA because HANFA, the Croatian Parliament is superior to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, whether it will bring those regulations within 6 months. Also, all those who work on the Croatian market and will work on the Croatian market, which will be founded as a factoring society, which is what those who will come from abroad, especially those societies that already work either participatory or d.o.o. companies on the Croatian market, they must be brought into line, so those who work, they must comply within 6 months with this law that we believe to be passed. But also within six months, new rules must be adopted under this law. And I think that, at this point in time, these societies that are working on this, under the existing law, if the rules are passed at the end of the year as you usually do, and they have to comply with this law by the end of the year, then we bring this factoring of societies that are doing it again at this point in time and additional costs that have to be harmonised and based on certain regulations that this law does. So you can't expect someone who's working now to comply with this law if it hasn't been passed. They can hardly comply with this law if they do not have regulations because if we see it, we have 18 regulations of extreme importance that are necessary to comply with all this law. It means contracts and capital factoring of a company and a requirement for granting consent to acquire a qualified share and content of the factoring company's management programme and the conditions that... members of the supervisory board of factoring society. So these are all the rules that have to be adopted within 6 months, and the one that works now must comply with this law and cannot comply with the rule. Therefore, the factoring of companies that are currently operating and operating, and especially those who come outside, should give at least 3 months of the adoption of all obligations of the HANFA to adopt its rules to comply with this law, because if the HANFA does not adopt one of these regulations, then no company can comply with this so-called Regulation because it will operate under existing rules which do not comply with this law. So that's where we come in collapsing, so I'd like to ask the Proposer, and there's plenty of time, if there's a possibility that the deadline can be extended, I'm not going to write the amendment now, but to prolonged, the government can go with its amendment to prolong or to shorten the deadline of HANFA, or to extend the deadline to existing societies to comply with this law because to comply with the law is dependent on 18 regulations that are extremely important for them to work and function. Otherwise, also once again independent of the amendment adopted, that is, the proposal of the Committee on Lawmaking, would not be bad if, in Article 116, all the rules that HANFA can, must, should be adopted because it is extremely difficult and complicated, we are constantly saying that we are simplifying the laws, if we simplify them, then simplify them in a way that exactly which rules exist, that someone who takes the law can and can, of course, search the HanFA website tomorrow for how it works because, by jumping from law to law, it is not easy, it is not representative, it is not adequate. I know that it is less, when Article 116 is just one sentence here, and in the original proposal when all the rules were mentioned, it is half page A4, but better to have half page A4 where exactly and clearly it writes to all those who deal with factoring, and I think that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will be, too, will not be able to pass through one article one of these regulations that has to be passed. This is an extremely important law, this is one of those new, necessary laws that are clearly not related to compliance with the EU, but they are consistent with life, with needs, with the market, with the development of the economy, so when we first adopt it, let's simplify it in a way that I say let those who work have a space of at least 3 months in relation to the HANFA that adopts rules that are directly related to compliance with this law and let's try and make all the rules so that HANFA knows exactly and clearly what the rules are. The HNS Club will support this law in faith and hope that you, as a proposer, will give in accordance with the Government Regulation and amendments a simplified and better and better-quality way of reading this law essentially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84902	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84903	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate of esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Whenever there is an unsettled area where business or other events take place, it is necessary to edit it from both that and in the first reading, I remember, the deputy minister was then in the benches when he replicated me and said that everything he listened to seemed reasonable and rational and I see that you had installed all the suggestions then presented, almost everything, and I thank you for the reasonable approach in making the law. It's shown every time how much it uses two readings. How much it takes for every law, and there is no unserious law to require first and second reading, and sometimes third if we would like to make quality arrangements for any area, especially which is financially sensitive like this. I'm not going to get any more respect on this matter. I've talked enough because now this law itself is more important. But I have to answer some of them to the notion of factoring. Factoring is an economic term. And as he caused in his first reading a lot of conflicting thinking, I did a test I asked 50 students what factoring was and I asked 10 adults of prominent or employers, some even a professor of all economic professions, believed or not no one knew exactly what factoring meant. There are words of strangers who have no replacements in Croatian, so the Croatian word is valid, but in this case it cannot be. And I'm afraid that the word factoring is being forced to do that sometimes and something not covered by the word factoring. Namely, it is undeniable that factoring is a buy-in of outstanding claims and it is indisputable and it just enters into factoring. And according to this law, that's all that's defined and that's well defined. Then why don't we call this law in the spirit of Croatian language and economic significance, the law on the purchase of outstanding claims, and we can also draw and put factoring, I don't mind. But there's no point in having a law that the profession doesn't know what it means in most cases, of course, specifically those who do, of course they do. It is really an alternative form very often and financing. He can and must be useful but can't and can't be a racket, and I'm not sure he's ever been in some cases before. If we are making the law now, then this law must be a guarantee that such a possible racket must never again be in Croatian entrepreneurship zones, waters and environments, and I hope that this law will contribute, therefore, in the first reading, I have suggested so much to accept and thank again what has been accepted. I also have a few concerns that I have agreed with the form of the amendment, so I would like to recommend to Mr. Deputy that we think about it a little bit and that if we can accept these suggestions. One is what I've already said about the name of the law itself. A second amendment similar to that of the previous law that we discussed where the recordings of phone conversations are mentioned again. I tried to quickly also to study the Credit Institutions Act, which includes a slightly more complex part of financial work, the world and a much more responsible one, but I am not sure that no, but I did not see that in the Credit Institutions Act there are such clauses and specifics that it is the supervisory authority to deliver phone conversations to a credit institution. And I think if it's not in credit institutions it shouldn't be especially in insurance companies, especially in factoring societies that are actually one small, small part of the financial world. Well, in that context, I suggested that you delete a piece of the article that talks about recorded phone conversations and notes about phone conversations and everything else. Another technical amendment, Deputy Minister, was released in Article 116 when it was said that within 6 months of the entry into force of the regulations, it was only omitted and Article 64, because there is also a Regulation on the use and the criteria and method of risk management that the Agency can also adopt and is not listed here in Article 116. Article 117(2), which states that the legal persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be obliged to comply within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law and shall be listed as not repeating all the tasks to be harmonised. As a rule, we come into a situation where we set deadlines that can't be respected and then we make changes to extend those deadlines. And today we had one on the Legislative Committee of the same cases. I have proposed and I have made an amendment to prescribe 12 months instead of six months, and within that time period, everyone can really, without any effort and can all comply with this law, and I don't think there's any reason to squeeze them with a deadline, and then it won't be able to bring them into line with all that 12 months is a perfectly reasonable deadline that doesn't hurt anything, and it's going to win. And whenever something doesn't hurt, and it can be good, then there's no reason not to accept it. Here is only if these two, three remarks are further added to an even more quality law which is extremely high quality but with these three more, three supplements would be really better quality, at a high level, then there is no reason why the HDZ Club will not support such a law and will indeed support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84904	Thank you. And we move on to individual debates, no, Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84905	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So let me begin by expressing my satisfaction you are a member of the opposition who can praise what is right and not just sometimes and without reason criticise it. But I did not answer for it in a replica, but a pure contribution to the language debate. So as in the last law I have, past reading, sorry, I need to repeat that. So I did a little research on how the word, or term factoring, other languages used incorporating themselves. And so I came up with the result that, for example, English, German, Italian, Czech, Macedonian, Polish and Slovenian all use this expression factoring, in one or another variant, so with c or k. The differences that I found in European languages are only in some and that is therefore to adapt this expression to the spirit of language, we have just done what the Deputy Minister has so not factoring but factoring and these are Hungarian and fracunical, so that I do not read their excuses again. As far as strangers are concerned, if we're just talking about the business world, here's what I'm going to say, business, investment, check, greenfield, goodwill etc., etc., so all the terms used in everyday language, and even in some contracts for which there's simply no translation, there's no Croatian term. Therefore, factoring as such should enter the Croatian language and should, what you said so many entrepreneurs and students do not know it is unfortunately but it is a new phenomenon in the Croatian business that is just waiting to be recognized by students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84906	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84907	Thank you very much. They say, I've often heard no one criticises like me, now I hear it's missing. We all from the opposition, my colleagues, know how to criticize but we also know how to commend when something is good especially if something is accepted and what is suggested. Why not? But when you say there is no replacement in Croatian, then why is it necessary to explain what factoring means, that this means the purchase of unscheduled claims? And you know how long it's been since I've been in Croatian, I've remembered it 36 years since I started studying. It works so much in the economic category that I know and where it is even more in history. Therefore, there is no need to replace the Croatian word that exists, i.e. it is not a word, but a term, category, purchase of unscheduled claims, it is a factoring. If you really want to add, add, I don't mind but let's not erase the Croatian term, there's no reason when everyone knows it is. And it didn't show up yesterday, the buy-in of a functioning claim has been functioning for years, only it wasn't legally arranged. And everybody but everybody calls factoring societies and everybody's talking about buying out claims, nobody's talking about factoring. No one came into the company and I'd say factoring from you, I'd buy your claims, fail. I don't see what tenacity in something that can't be defended by facts, but only by the thesis of some one who has no argument, there's no resistance at all. I don't see why it's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84908	So at all levels, we bend our tongue. You may have noticed an LG G3 commercial. Individual discussion of Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84909	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So this factoring law is another law that this coalition government is introducing order. In fact, factoring as an alternative form of financing of business entities through the purchase of claims, there is another definition of factoring, so far it has not been regulated by a special law and, of course, it has created legal uncertainty for companies that carry it out and also a space for non-transparent business. In Croatia, factoring is actually carried out by two groups of institutions. On the one hand, these are credit institutions and on the other hand they are companies just registered for factoring operations. So that's why we had our own dualism in business surveillance. So credit institutions are in the jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank while companies are registered for factoring operations under the supervision of the HANFA. It is mandatory to stress that these companies are not subject to the obligations of licensing due to the absence of legal regulation of factoring operations, nor are they subject to the obligations of authorisation for management members, nor are the rules on minimum underlying capital or reporting obligations. In other words, HANFA's supervision of these companies was limited, i.e. only to verify the compliance of operations under the Law on Commercial Companies or, for example, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Which means that it was actually controlled only by laws that generally apply to the control of business entities. And because of that, there was actually a lot of space to do what was not allowed. So if it wasn't forbidden then it was actually allowed. Even though factoring services are not regulated at European Union level. There is not even a unique definition of factoring at European Union level, although it is mentioned in several directives. However, there are good examples of the definition of factoring in the national legislation of certain European countries. So a good example is Germany, let's say a good example of a regulated factoring market with clearly regulated rules since 2008 and factoring is actually a very important source of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises in that country. Factoring industry legally has regulated Austria, Hungary, Italy and some other countries. In Croatia, 15 companies registered in 2013 with an activity of 8.6 billion kuna earn 825 million kuna of total income and a net profit of nearly 180 million kuna, which is twice as much as a net profit in 2012. According to the volume of transport, the year 2013 was the best business year since factoring companies operate in Croatia. So transactions in the range of more than 17 billion kuna were made. So we can say that in the year in which the economy was extremely difficult, unfortunately it still is, so in that year the factoring industry in Croatia was flowering roses. Among other things, such a high increase in total transactions was determined by a large increase in the scope of the escorted bonds, and this fact itself speaks of how much the Croatian economy actually faces difficulties, especially in maintaining current liquidity. As far as the text of the law itself is concerned, I have no intention of repeating the things we said in the first reading because the final text does not really differ significantly from the original text. The most remarks in the first reading were anyway, and here it was now related to the use of terminology, first of all, I will not say unfortunate factoring, but the promoter has very reasonedly explained why it remains in the used term, not only factoring but also some other expressions. Therefore, the final proposal further prescribes requirements regarding the risk management system and the control procedure, since these were in fact the weakest points of the current functioning of the factoring companies. This will increase the legal efficiency of factoring transactions and ensure a more stable factoring market, all with a view to fostering the development of this previously unregulated area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84910	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84911	Just for a little while. Comrade Nadice, you have said that the motioner has very reasonedly explained why he remains in this name. Here's a little while ago, I explained why I proposed an amendment and the name of the Law on Buying Out Unscheduled Claims. Are you saying my argument isn't justified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84912	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84913	It's just that there's actually one problem, you're not a legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84914	He's actually a legislator. He's a legislator, one of them, has one vote. Igor Radjenović, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84915	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I wondered if it was final, yes or no, but this final replica was offering me. Yes, Mr. Maric and all of you are legislators, and I think this is a good example of the law that has in good part respected the remarks of parliamentary representatives and parliamentary club representatives, and on this side I thank all the debaters for this contribution we have made. We're going to consider more of these amendments, I think one or two might be able to accept it, but here we leave it to the government to reconsider until Tuesday's vote. I thank everyone once again for the commendation of this law and, as I have said, I expect unanimous support for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84916	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84917	We're going to the Final Proposal of the factoring law, second reading, P.Z. No. 621. The debate on the final bill is over. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Articles 2, 47, 50, 62 and 97 were submitted to the business deadline of the Croatian Parliament and became an integral part of the final draft law. The government submitted an amendment to Article 79 following the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I ask the Rules of Procedure to vote on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 86 for and 21 abstentions, we have accepted that we are discussing and deciding on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to ask Deputy Minister, Honored Igor Radinovic to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84918	Thank you, Mr. President. So the intensity is the same as in the Insurance Act. Deleted is the prescribed obligation of this time factoring society, that the authorised persons of the agency decide, upon its request, on the record of phone conversations and recordings of phone conversations. The only thing that matters here is Article 79(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84919	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 79. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please enter into force on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 79. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 86 votes in favour, 20 abstentions, have been accepted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. Dear Deputy Minister, we are going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 1 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84920	Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly, all amendments were incorporated within the regular period, so that they became an integral part of the five amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84921	No, no, these are the amendments of the Legislative Committee, the Honorable Deputy Minister. They've got other procedural currents and currents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84922	All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84923	Amendment number 1 to Article 2 if you accept all these welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84924	That's right, then I knock on the open door. We accept everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84925	Yes, thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final bill. And Amendments to Honored Representative Goran Maric, Amendment number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84926	Amendment number one is not accepted. So the factoring has been applied as a term in Croatian and we consider it unnecessary to extend the title of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84927	Dear Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84928	Thank you very much. Well, this kind of dispute is unusual between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the MPs, and even more unusually, it is necessary to pollemise, but when things are brought to absurdity that it is necessary to invest an amendment in order for the legislative proposal to be adopted in the Croatian Parliament to bear the name in Croatian, it is indeed absurd. But I think that he is logical and natural and the state in which this law is passed and to which this law applies is the Croatian State and this is the Croatian Parliament and there is no reason that the legal proposal is not in Croatian, or must be in Croatian because the request is sufficiently affirmative and constitutionally founded, and it is also positive.... The word factoring is just one technical word accepted in financial communication, but it just means buying inaccessible claims which I suggested to them to be called such a legal proposal and... a very absurd situation that we must explain the name of the legal document and translate into Croatian. I'm not an on-call hygienist, but this is really unacceptable and I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84929	Thank you, Your Honor. Please state the amendment to the 1st Honored Representative Goran Maric, which the government does not accept. Who's in? He didn't get the required majority, I'm assessing. Amendment number 2 of the same respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84930	Amendment No 2 has been accepted in the amended form, namely the Government's amendment to Article 79(3)... the intensity of the... amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84931	In the name of, nothing, withdrawn? I estimate the amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Amendment number three of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84932	Amendment No 3 shall not be accepted since this Article of the Law lists the articles of the laws for which the adoption of the Regulation is provided, but Article 64 which speaks of the criteria and the way in which the risks are managed does not necessarily include the adoption... but leaves such a possibility for the HANFA and in that case, it would be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84933	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84934	Thank you very much. I expected such an explanation by the applicant, but for all and other regulations it also appears in the articles that it is not obliged to bring and that it can be passed. Read the first article it refers to, you will see that it is the same rulebook to say that the agency can be brought without having to, and so does this. I think you missed, and you don't want to admit a mistake, but okay. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84935	Please state the amendment number three to the respected representative Goran Maric, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 4 of the same representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84936	Amendment number four of Mr. Maric's representatives has been assessed as good and accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84937	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84938	Acceptable, Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84939	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. That's why we've exhausted all the amendments. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 102 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions are passed by P.Z. No. 621 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84940	We move to -a/ Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures b/ Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President, Vice-President and part of the Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures c/ Proposal for a Decision appointing a Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is laid down to appoint and resolve the President, Vice-President and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. On behalf of the promoter, would you like to? ... I'll give you my word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84941	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would ask Mr. Deputy Minister to tell us how many members will have with this new appointment a commission for the procurement process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84942	Here you are for the pay phone and explain the proposal. Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84943	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So he's going to have eight members because there's another check waiting and... the government's session is going to be another member to be appointed and then to propose to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84944	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84945	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Now I would very much like to quote my debate on behalf of the club, but colleagues and colleagues have entered this law on 15.2.2013. Article 21(3) states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose within 60 days members of the Commission in full composition. 60 days was if I'm not mistaken, if I add this all together, 15.5.2013, and today it's 11.7.2014, so we missed the deadline in 14 months. If this law came upon general support in this House when it was passed, if we all expressed our support to the government because we are setting up practically three committees to resolve complaints, if we all pointed out that at this point on the commission, the State Commission for... The public procurement process has about 6 billion kuna if not a larger amount. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we do not have virtually any investment in the Republic of Croatia more significant, if out of these 6 billion kunas these are largely the resources of the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government, this means projects and works that would employ several hundred or several thousand people at the moment. And what does the government do? I'll say it openly. Waiting for some gentlemen who didn't have the conditions to become members of the State procurement commission. The second thing, if we stick to the law that we have passed, then it is very interesting and look at the conditions under which the mandate ends for the members of the Commission. I would also be interested in the proposal that both the President and the Vice-President of the Commission are planning to be resolved that they have failed to comply with the law that they cannot be appointed. Because it's exactly what conditions I can't be appointed yet. But it's very interesting that one proposal that we received three, four days ago, so he's changed, the proposal of the person concerned has been removed because in the meantime it's been discovered that there are some problems in the same state-owned company and this is simply not good. If the government is unable to establish the law itself and supported by all clubs, all MPs in this House are appointed 9 people. If we re-name these four people, two people have almost nothing to do with public procurement. In 2003, colleagues and colleagues were in the Ministry of Finance and the first four years and negotiations and the harmonisation of legislation with the EU that was done in the Ministry of Finance and I know what big problems we had to come up with the legislative framework at all. And it didn't occur to us at that time to replace any of the five members of the Commission that we inherited from the previous government. So why? For the simple reason that when you comply with legislation, then people who know something about it should be used, and those people who were working in that Commission knew something, and we are now changing the whole Commission. Of these four members with a lot of respect, I will not personally call anyone because it would not be fair, nor correct, with a lot of respect for the two members present in the work. However, two of the proposed practically aside from some small purchases in some small units have not practically met with public procurement at all, and tomorrow should decide whether the procurement procedure has been carried out in accordance with the laws. Is the procedure carried out when you have that rigid decision that the most favourable offer is the best offer, the best financial advantage, and in most cases the investment is primarily there I mean the education that is standing at the moment, and because those who have offered the most favourable, the lowest offer is not able to do the job at those prices. Those colleagues who are in the benches that are mayors, the mayors know best. So if such a complaint comes to such people who have never met anything like it, if they do not have the basic knowledge of the legal and economic profession, then colleagues and colleagues do not wonder why we will have 6, 7 or 10 billion unsolved cases. Why are we doing this? Well, isn't it really enough of that party entanglement? So there are some things that we simply release the parties, let go of everything, let's put people who can do this job in a good way first of all in the Republic of Croatia. Because this is ridiculous, this is so much party, a human cruise that it's just ridiculous. I'm not going to, I'm not going to talk about names out of courtesy. But you will see when we discuss the report on the Commission's work you will see what the results of this Commission will be more than I say about some things we have warned and when we have discussed this law. My colleagues and colleagues, do we, with so many unemployed lawyers, graduate lawyers, put us economists in the commission, that we can respect someone with three years of high or higher school just to get a party's arrest and the moment the law was passed? In one of the most important commissions, see how many court proceedings you have and everything about the procurement process. So if the Commission were to assess and assess the procurement procedure... That it's all clean then there's no more to roll around and dig into it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if you have a team that didn't do it, look at your résumé and colleagues' résumés. Since someone who's been getting two hanzaplasts or something will decide tomorrow whether it's a public procurement process, let's say today we were talking about the Peljesk Bridge. With all the technical, demanding things most favourable. How this Public Procurement Commission will assess and assess tomorrow whether the processes used by EU funds used by local self-government and state units have all been implemented in accordance with all. Same story the other day with the People's Newspaper. Well, the People's Newspaper isn't some kind of burekjam or something like that that everyone can do. But no, when it's party entanglement, then it can go. Or Plinacro? Plinacro made his biggest investment with one member of the board. Today, when this Plinarro virtually invests almost nothing, there are five members of the board. But this isn't good with the Commission, it's not good, Mr. Deputy Minister, for one reason. Don't make the opposition look at every law with a reserve. And why am I telling you this? Because when we talked about this law, we gave you support and we told you if you need to, and you put three other members on it to be effective. We have expressed a certain reserve according to the conditions for the members of the Commission and what is happening now. You're 14 months late first. And the other thing, all that reserve we've been expressing, unfortunately, has proved justified. That's not good. Because why wouldn't the opposition support a legal proposal if he was good? But if this is happening to us that the implementation of this law leads us in some other direction, then unfortunately it's not good. And we're sending a completely wrong message. So Croatian citizens experience us in a slightly ugly way anyway, and what kind of message are we sending? And this is why I don't want to go in, so the more I'm with some people who are proposed to work together and I have an extremely high opinion about them, not wanting to get into people's personal characteristics, but I'm the principle and all this expensive thing that the HDZ Club can't accept, and especially not accept the appointment proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84946	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84947	Thank you very much. You have rightly warned your colleague Shuker of an unacceptable phenomenon, but it is already trying to be introduced in such a way as to become a rule. The economic profession is completely ignored and despised. If a person who has not graduated from the Faculty of Economics is constantly able to run for an economic university with higher expertise, I do not underestimate the higher level of expertise, but it is for other levels and for other businesses, but not for financial organisations, not for the management of insurance companies, not for the management of Leasing societies, not for leading banks, not for the Public Procurement Commission. Everyone has a place but the persistent economic profession is degraded and suppressed. Anyone who finishes any three years after high school is equally running for any place for which an economic profession is sought. So that's why we're in the economic situation we're in because the deputy ministers were our builders, because the heads of public companies were our technicians instead of doing our job. No one's doing their job for which he's been educated. And she's a poor country where people don't do what they went to school for. And we're swamped like that, schooling for one, qualified for one, and doing the other. It's a shame he didn't end up there on one side, and the damage is even greater than what he's doing for what he hasn't been trained to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84948	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84949	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. If the ministry and the head of the department can't be a person who didn't finish the high-end training, speaking according to that old or new five years old, then you can think now she's carrying out public procurement and whether this public procurement has been carried out in accordance with the law decided by someone who has a higher level of expertise and who is three years old, he smelled public procurement for three years but has not worked in public procurement. Because the concept of public procurement is wide. But what I saw in my résumé is the smell of public procurement. And to study the documentation of a complex investment of several tens of millions of kunas, you need to have, above all, a life experience. 'Cause unfortunately, there's a lot of traps in there. And why am I saying that? So that's what I'm saying because of all our colleagues who work both in public enterprises and who work in the executive office that when the Board of Public Procurement comes through the appeal and when they confirm their order to make sure that the job is okay that no one can call it tomorrow. I don't think any mayor, chief or minister is in the interest of doing incriminating actions. But if in such an important institution we prey on party people, it says here he's not a member of the party. So it is clear which members of the parties were appointed to the Commission in 2002, 2003, exactly according to party membership. But that party membership isn't so controversial to me either, it's just a questionable profession for me here. Well, after all, if Kukuriku is a coalition in power so he can name his own people, but not beyond the criteria. Because if you can't run in the public services for a simple, practically official place if you don't have a certain level of professional training, and here for a place where you're appointed by the Parliament and in those five years if you don't practically kill a man or do some extraordinary crime, no one can replace you in those five years, you can come along with some conditions that are ridiculous. Unfortunately, that's why we're where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84950	I'm closing the debate. The motions for a decision will be voted on Tuesday as planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84951	a/ Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, the Vice-President and Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures; b/ Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and part of the Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures; c/ Proposal for a Decision appointing a Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The debate is on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 92 votes are in favour and 10 votes against a decision on the resolution of the president, the deputy president and member of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the appointment of the president, the deputy president and part of the members of the State Commission for the control of procurement procedures. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 83 votes in favour and 16 votes against and 4 abstentions, a decision was made on the appointment of the president, the deputy president and part of the members of the State Commission to control the procurement procedures in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour and 12 votes against and 8 abstentions, a decision has been taken to appoint a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84952	We will also discuss A) the proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency B).The proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Administrative Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on energy regulation is laid down for the Croatian Parliament to appoint and resolve the president and members of the Governing Council of HERA. You've received the motion for an act. Would you like some? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84953	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Looks like I'm the only one who's been sharing you since the end of today's session, so I'll be... Yes, here's a colleague who'll give replicas, but let's. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mine will be the last to discuss it again. So I have to say, here's to the previous subject and the discussion about the profession, I really have to say here that it seems like this should be the right man in the right place, at least as far as competence and reference are concerned. So Mr. Jurekovic is a graduate. Engineering with a serious professional career behind it and in 2011 was also appointed as a member of the Governing Council. So he's three, four years old, and he's also the CEO of the HERA Board of Directors so it seems to us, of course, that it's appropriate, that there's no reason why we haven't seen him, because it wouldn't be in the future. Moreover, as regards the regulation of the energy sector itself over the past several years, the process has been dominantly taking place in terms of compliance with the rules, the conditions of the EU energy market and the primary takeover of the legal framework, the EU's single internal market, as little as possible by the government and during this 2.5 year. Also practical opening of the electricity and natural gas markets, and including the expansion of renewable sources in the practice of electricity markets. Yes, we are not discussing too much right now just about, and at all, the state of the energy sector, and it should probably be a special parliamentary debate that is happening in this segment, but it is important to think especially about liberalisation. In the area of the electricity market, and in this sector unfortunately, apart from the regulatory framework which is more or less prescribed or in line with the guidelines and what had to be done, nothing happened, nor was further transformation of the Croatian electricity industry, nor was Croatia's electricity economy more seriously prepared for the competition, but at this point more than 20% of the trade in the hands of other operators, and investment is not to be talked about. So, since the bombing tsunami investments in the electricity sector other than the replacement of wood banners with concretes, electricity is not happening in Croatia. So, no new elections, except for those parts of private investment, something in renewable sources, and of large investments in electricity, of course big, big 0. As far as liberalisation is concerned, I must remind myself, especially the gas markets, in two things, that we have deregulated the gas market in 2012 in order to re-arrange it for a year and a half, it seems to me that the last amendments to the Gas Market Act are again regulated. And again, a monopoly for households was introduced, but now instead of natural gas, we gave this monopoly to Croatia's electricity industry. And instead of Croatia's electricity sector developing, it will now deal with gas imports. Except for that company that's been doing it for 50 years. And the result is that the government's decision sold gas reserves from a storage facility in Kola at a price directly caused by the cost over, as they say 200 million kuna to the current supplier, i.e. the INA producer, i.e. natural gas. For what reason it seems and why we can do this and just assume in view of all the circumstances and events that in 2.5 years nothing has been settled with MOL about INA as a strategic partner, and it seems that all the loops around that sector and the oil and gas and energy sectors in general will have very big problems in the future. But as far as this work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is concerned, I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84954	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84955	Dear colleague, I can't be the last, you have the right to respond to the replica, so I'll please you for today to go to the weekend with the last debate. So, when you've been saying this INA loop hasn't been solved for 2.5 years, I mean, what are we talking about in general? I think after handing over management to MOL, after the Supreme Court's ruling, after, quite clearly, there was corruption and giving in that segment versus MOL. And now, and now you're saying that we're messing with, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made itself clear and clear, and it's absolutely unequivocally public, and it protects national interests. And you say it's a loop, so that's relative to what you've been doing is tampering.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84956	Come on, we'll let you respond to the line. The Djuro Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84957	Thank you very much. Well, not to be my last. But in line with the contract that it was since 2009, it was not until after two years of negotiations on the contract's condition that could be opened. And we did it in 6 months 2011. I am, of course, sorry that I was a minister for a few more months, but as far as I remember, the whole platform was left, it was documented in correspondence between the Ministry and MOL-A on which, in this time, it could have ended independently of the court processes that you rightly mention. But it seems to me, however, almost three years ago, there was enough time to deal with the MOL because after all, we see how much catastrophic damage the oil company suffered and still with the unknown ending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84958	And now for a few more information. The purified agenda is published on the Croatian Assembly pages. We will work on Monday, continue on Monday, July 14th at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal for a decision on the basis of a request for a national referendum of the Civil Initiative Staff for the Defence of the Croatian Vukovar and we will be working on the points that we have put into the agenda today. Have a nice weekend. Goodbye. Session adjourned at 15.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-11-0.u84959	a/ Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency; b/ Proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution decision. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 96 votes in favour and 8 votes against a decision on the resolution of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 94 votes in favour and 6 votes against and 2 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much. Now we're gonna switch a little bit. Here's the vice president.
