ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94461	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. We will discuss - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes, second reading. P.Z. No. 690. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, deputy minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We propose amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes, which determines the jurisdiction of the procedure under which administrative courts decide on the legality of decisions of the public legal authorities. Administrative courts were set up, were to grow up and grow into courts full of jurisdiction that decided on the basis of oral debate. In practice, it has been shown that first-degree courts rarely use their reform powers, and the administrative dispute actually comes down to the dispute over the legality of the administrative act in the sense that the administrative act is legal or not legal. It is then followed by either a cassation ruling, hence the judgment that abolishs the decision of the public legal authority or the judgment against which the action is dismissed. Against these two decisions, the appeal is not allowed. These individual and immediate decisions lead to the diversity and inequality of judicial practice, and thus the inequality of citizens and legal uncertainty. By restricting the right to appeal against the judgments of the Administrative Court, which is now prescribed in Article 66(2), an effective judicial protection of citizens' rights in the administrative dispute is at stake. Therefore, according to the current regulation of complaints in the administrative dispute, only the reformation judgment is possible, i.e. the judgment by which the Administrative Court itself decides on the right, obligation or legal interest of the party. The appeal shall not be against a cassation decision or a decision against which the court refuses an administrative action. We propose an amendment and, according to the proposed solution, an appeal would be allowed against both the reformation verdict and against the cassation and the decision against which the action is rejected, one in case of a cassation decision. Therefore, the appeal would not be allowed against that judgment, which first returned the case to the public legal authority after the annulment or advertising of the void decision of that body and against the judgment imposing an individual decision within the prescribed time limit and against the part of the judgment if it contains a settlement. In addition to this most important issue, the applicable law is governed by many provisions relating to the procedure itself and some important institutes, and in this regard we have amended the provisions concerning exemptions, termination of proceedings, access to court in the renewal of the dispute, in the process of assessing the legality of general acts, etc. The differences that occurred between the first and second readings were made on the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and interested professionals. In this regard, we deleted the provision of Article 2 in order to avoid excessive interpretation of the concept of administrative act, Article 4 which allowed the first-degree body to represent the defendant before the Administrative Court, we set an objective deadline after which the administrative dispute can no longer be initiated, and in order to ensure the power of the administrative act, linguistic compliance has been carried out in view of the regulations governing the protection of personal data, is specified when the proceedings are terminated, the suspension of the appeal is indicated by the extraordinary review of the judicial decision. We also specifically specified the provisions on enforcement of court decisions, which are related to Articles 27 and 28. We have also decided on a proposal from the interested public that the notifying authority to initiate the procedure for assessing the legality of the general act may also be a public defender. Provisions concerning the execution of a plea shall also apply to the execution of a judgment. A provision laying down that these amendments apply to ongoing procedures has been specified. It is, therefore, procedural provisions, which are not affected by the rights acquired, and can therefore be applied to the proceedings under way. As for those suggestions or proposals that we did not accept, we did not accept the advice of the Advocate General that the assessment of the legality of the statutes was prescribed in the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia since the Constitutional Court had already given its statement here and made its point and argued its position. No suggestion has been accepted that the Law on Administrative Disputes addresses the issue of education of judges and officials, as well as the licensing of officials or the steel of public authorities. These issues will be addressed by appropriate lifelong education programmes and other organisational regulations, not by this law. And no proposal has been accepted to place in the jurisdiction of administrative disputes a prior determination of discrimination procedure. For the discriminatory behaviour of the public body constitutes an unlawful act, and it is normised in the definition of the subject matter of the administrative dispute referred to in Article 3. The law on administrative disputes. Finally, we are improving the quality of the administrative dispute by these amendments, equating judicial practice, enabling better quality control of the work of public authorities, thus creating a stable legal environment and providing judges with a more high-quality procedural framework for their conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94463	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, a respected colleague, Branko Vuksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94464	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this will be a very brief debate on behalf of the club for the reasons known. When the Ministry of Justice proposes laws, first of all, listens to parliamentary deputies, respects their remarks, and when it comes to second reading mostly everything that is the measure of things, what even opposition representatives have proposed the ministry respects and puts into the final draft of the law. What the Deputy Minister spoke about was the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes and it is very important and it is, in fact, the whole judiciary and the caselaw, which is how to even the caselaw, both in the case of judicial administrative disputes, in fact, even the practice of administrative disputes. The biggest problem of the Croatian judiciary is this practice. That you for the same actions in different courts, with different judges and the best example is just the verdict in the dispute between Mr Bandic and HRT. So the same procedure as it was, it's not about the administrative dispute clearly but it's about case law, it's the same kind of dispute being led for the same thing, for the same sentences, for the same words in the case dispute between Banic and RTL. One judge ruled in favour of Mr Bandic, completely wrong, which is why it is wrong, because the media can't be guilty if it conveys a live interview with politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94465	We're discussing the Law in administrative disputes. Come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94466	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94467	I'm listening to you very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94468	Listen, because I'm talking about court practice, which is why I'm talking about unequal court practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94469	We are discussing one very specific law in another reading. When in fact, according to our Rules of Procedure, only the amendments submitted and the differences compared to the first reading can be talked about. Or at least go back to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94470	I don't know why your anxiety. We'll be done soon because there aren't a lot of MPs, so I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94471	I'm not nervous at all, but I have to do a job here, and that's to warn an agent who's speaking out of the question, and that's just you right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94472	Well, I don't think it's out of the question, but you have the right to intervene. No, because I'm talking about judicial, unequal practice, and in unequal court practice that you've read the reasoning of the law, it's also said here. And I'm saying that's the problem. Well, in order not to be nervous, the club of Independent Representatives will support it. I've put you out of your misery.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94473	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Representatives' Club, the respected representative Mladen Novak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94474	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy. I have to admit that we were in a dilemma whether at all to debate considering as you yourself said that the good part of the first debate was respected. However, what prompted me is a report by the Committee on Justice, saying that the proposed provision would be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an amendment in a way that would set a deadline for the renewal of the procedure. I think it's a little strange that a representative of the motions at the committee's session finds that there has been a conditional failure or indetermination of a certain legal act that the government will regulate by amendment later. I repeat this is a second reading, and I think this is really a little bit of a no-clamper or unserious approach. The second thing I would like to mention is that in your opening statement, you pointed out that you did not take everything into account or did not accept it, and, among other things, you referred to the remarks provided by the Advocate General. So I would also look at it a little bit, where she says that "the question of education of judges and officials and the licensing of officials or leaders should be resolved by appropriate programmes", that is, by her "adequate programmes of lifelong education and organisational regulations, and not by this law". I can agree with that, but the point of everything is that the D.A. referred to the possibility of hiring a judicial academy. Since it is indeed true that this remark is your answer that this law does not solve it, but I must remind you that in February 2013 we have just warned that the main problem is the inequality of judgments or the work of judges and with that we have then suggested, or through a representative question on behalf of the club of representatives, a question of the functions of the Judicial Academy in the whole system. The answer we got around here is not one of 11 is the Ministry's representative, it's not in that department. But then I ask the question of what does the Judiciary Academy judge, what do we have it for, what do we finance it for? And let me point out that I'm not advocating it. Let's just put it in place. If it really exists because of what you have stated in response to the parliamentary question, then that is the answer to the good part and to the consent of this law. and then I can't agree with that with the finding one answer is practically in response to the parliamentary question, and quite another in this text. I know that this is not a matter directly related to this law and does not refer to articles of the law, but it does refer very much to your reasoning, which is why you reject suggestions or proposals from the attorney general. I know you can't or can't give an answer right now that you're practically answering two questions, but it's a useful opportunity for me to appeal to you to run something about the Judicial Academy. I'm sorry there's no minister here, but since we've had direct conversations with him about it, let me remind him of some of his promises right next to the Justice Academy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94475	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Davorin Mlakar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And even though you intervened, I will not talk about amendments to this law at all, I will talk about parts of both some articles and the role of this law on what we talked about by thinking about how to improve the work of the state administration and all the bodies of the public authorities. This law in the second reading is the consequence of the reorganization of work in the state administration, the consequence of the adoption project is still calling it the new Law on General Administrative Procedure, but unfortunately the consequence that seems to us from today's perspective that it has not achieved its basic purpose. The basic purpose of both this law and the General Administrative Procedure Act was to speed up, to improve the work of the State Administration Authority, the public authorities of legal persons with public authority, to make the whole process more efficient until a solution is reached, or in this particular case, until court decisions have been taken. I must admit that despite this introduction by the respected deputy minister, since the holder of this law is the Ministry of Justice, and not the Ministry of Administration, I believe that at least the opinion of the Ministry of Administration has been requested during the government's decision. However, at least according to the information I have, it could not be said that you have discussed this law with those who directly apply this law, which are judges of first and second-degree administrative courts. At least as far as I know, they haven't had a chance to give serious objections to another reading of this law. But I would say something that makes us think from the principle of improving the work of a state administration that we have mostly a lot of objections and bad grades to what we have achieved with this law. The shortest said to the amendments to both this law and the General Administrative Procedure Act are we, instead of the three steps so far in resolving administrative matters, probably because of the efficiency of the procedure, have now come to an end and this is also the topic of this law up to four degrees of administrative action. There is still a General Administrative Procedure Act that solves administrative matters in two degrees, after which you address administrative courts that now have two degrees. And now we have two more stages of judicial protection in the administrative trial, the more you are now expanding the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court that you should also be handling in cases that were before this intervention, for which he was not in charge. As far as I know the situation, the Administrative Court in Zagreb has been behind the subject for 3 years, and that is exactly the time he is, as far as I think he is. So instead of three stages of administrative resolution, we introduce another degree, we have four degrees, we express serious concern that we can say that this is not meeting the principle of acceleration, efficiency of better management of administrative trial and administrative action in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it seems to us that in this way we will continue to delay proceedings, especially given the jurisdiction of the first and second degree of administrative trial and that we will get even more late or even more difficult to exercise legitimate rights before administrative courts compared to what we have so far. And so far, this justice has been mostly slow for most parties to expect final decisions from administrative courts. What we believe is that this law should contain and not contain and would be a proposal, although we doubt that you will accept it but it is still possible in the second reading that this law limits the possibility of extending the jurisdiction of administrative courts, which makes us each individual law to be voted in this House. The shortest way to say is to avoid the possibility of making final decisions, and to deny many parties the right to appeal and to refer to them as suing and managing administrative disputes. And it has now become a practice for you in many laws. And I'll just mention some. Let's say the Law on the right to access information to you as a first-degree body determines the High Administrative Court. There is no legal remedy against the High Court's solution and this is a solution both finally and legally and you lose the possibility of a constitutionally guaranteed right to appeal to the solutions of the institution. On the other hand, most of the laws that wish to cast out the possibility of appeal or objection to their solutions in the administrative process prescribes the possibility of managing a administrative dispute and thus extends more and more and I would say the uncontrollable jurisdiction of administrative courts and thus again delay the adoption of final and powerful solutions that we should have if we want a more efficient state administration and public administration. Therefore, this law had the opportunity to restrict the possibility to extend the jurisdiction of administrative courts by any special law or at least to lay down criteria under which certain things could go to administrative trial in a more restrictive way than we have so far. That's one I'd say of the great grudges in this law. What seems important to us is to say with the adoption of this law other than this jurisdiction that we have spoken of, that this law is certainly going to increase costs, not only for the parties, but also for the authorities of the state administration that will be thrown out of the administration's trial. In fact, you are prescribing, i.e. there is already a contradiction of the debate of the courts in the first degree, this means that a hearing of witnesses, experts and all procedural actions which are otherwise known in the activities of other regular courts, means the accumulation of costs, especially in the administrative court, because we have four regionally divided courts and very often the need for representatives of the public authorities in concrete proceedings to be manifested, to participate in the proceedings either as witnesses or as witches, and that I would say that I would accumulate the need to pay the costs and that those bodies in their budgets did not foresee such a provision at all. We also have a few concrete examples, namely I apologize if I'm wrong, but I have a consolidated text of the law because the consolidated text, of course, according to our good practice, we haven't officially issued, you have here a convenient example of what it looks like. In Article 9 of your law, the Government proposes to delete the word "individual" in Article 37(2). In the consolidated text of the existing law, paragraph 2 reads: "The judge calls the parties and witnesses and the experts to the hearing.". The individual is not mentioned in the current text, and then it is very difficult to determine what should be deleted in that paragraph. There are still some technical improvements that could be proposed to the ministry where complaints are discussed, Article 21 of the unjust and unlawful complaints, etc., but it's a technical matter, I don't think it's important for this debate. What you said in the introduction of the law, you said in Article 3 of the existing law of the word: administrative act is deleted. Due to the definition of the administrative act very often in the practice of administrative courts, the issue in particular in labour disputes was the question of whether the administrative act or the act of business are definitions relating to individual acts, bodies which resolve your rights and obligations in the employment or in the conduct of duties. And maybe it was an opportunity to, instead of eradicating the definition of an administrative act to prescribe exactly what is considered an administrative act so that tomorrow it would be known to determine exactly what is the jurisdiction of administrative courts in the first and second stages. As much as it is to praise the idea that the High Administrative Court is handling complaints about most of the cases to be conducted before the first instance courts, given these special laws that I have spoken of, which I would say multiply the jurisdiction of the administrative courts, it would be worth considering whether this measure leads us to the ultimate purpose of the administrative trial that these decisions of the administrative courts are made in time for certain rights to be protected, or whether we are extending the agony of this trial to wait at the end of the ten years for the power of the judgments that we expect, and it did not happen. It's all about that, and that's why I started with it, that we're going into one more efficient state administration project, and we're doing everything we can to make it even more inefficient. After two degrees of administrative procedure, we have two degrees of administrative trial and I cannot believe that anyone proposing this law will be able to explain to us that we will get a more efficient state administration. Therefore, the proposal of the HDZ Club is that it is possible to at least limit the extension of the jurisdiction of administrative courts by any single law proposed by the Croatian Parliament, that it must be left as the basic principle of the state administration body's action in the administrative procedure as it has been resolved by the General Administrative Procedure Act and making administrative judgment more effective than this proposal. Extending the right to express and to appeal or to file complaints, extending the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court, I fear, contrary to the principles that we have advocated and what we want to achieve, and what is finally written in your introduction and to explain the need to adopt this law. Since these are the principles of objections which can be expressed and in a concrete formulation of certain articles of this law, we propose that the motionary consider until the vote on this proposal, at least limit the jurisdiction of administrative courts, because otherwise we will get courts buried in cases that will be contrary to what our aspirations are. Here's what I'd like to conclude and suggest you take our remarks into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94477	Thank you. The replica was answered by the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94478	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mlakar, this debate of yours encouraged me to mention it quite simply a few days ago, last week we had a law that had 25 amendments and additions in 14 years. And now you've mentioned this one case, the individual's term is changing, that is to say, the individual who isn't supposed to be in that article at all and you've started a debate with an effective state administration. Now I'm asking myself, and I'm asking you a question in which way it can be more effective or state administration or any part of it if the acts that come out of this house, the laws, if they're so much that I don't say unsettled, there's no official version, I would just remind myself of a proposal from the Club of Representatives that, after every three amendments and supplementing any law to go necessarily into issuing a consolidated version, or official purgatory, I don't know how I would do that, which is the right terminology in this respect. Therefore, I think that by respecting the existing situation, we cannot expect to have a more efficient state administration or local administration as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94479	The replica matches Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94480	Thank you, dear colleague Novak, for putting up this problem, although you can see that this law has caused an unremembered occupation, especially of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I didn't want to caricate anything, I wanted to talk really well about what we're doing with these legal solutions. What you said, 20th and some amendments and additions to the law only suggests that the legislative authority wants to provoke legal uncertainty in the state. The obligation is to publish consolidated texts and not to wait for three amendments and supplements to happen, but should be practice, the rule, regardless of what we will hear now stories about the need to settle or reduce costs, etc. This is too serious a question to deal with so easily. The shortest said by 2003, more than 25 thousand laws were passed in Croatia and as many amendments and additions to the law. And 750 consolidated texts have been issued. The only conclusion that people can draw from this is that we spread legal uncertainty in the country because no one can live to monitor all these changes and supplement them. And under this law, which is extremely important for 80% of your rights and obligations as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, there is a further slowdown in the decision-making process and a concrete resolution of your demands. And instead of those who have waited five years for a solution to a particular problem now will wait seven or eight years and then we'll wonder what kind of state administration we have. With regulations like this, she can't be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94481	In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Vesna Sabolić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94482	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Deputy Minister of Justice, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly of the Croatian Club of Representatives of the HNS supports the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Administrative Disputes. As we said in the debate at first reading, we hold that this law is of the utmost importance for citizens because it regulates judicial oversight of the work of the administration, or judicial oversight of public authorities. It focuses on the protection of private rights of individuals, legal persons and also on the protection of public interest. We can't exactly boast that it's never happened that public authorities, whether it's a variety of agencies, schools, colleges, police or health institutions, municipal, county services or services in public administration offices, public and municipal enterprises, have made all decisions in the public interest or in the interests of citizens. Unfortunately, we are witnessing abuse of positions in public authorities, and if you type them on the Internet, you will see that there are full 69 pages. However, all abuses of public authorities are not subject to this law, of course, to the subject matter of this law, such as in the opening statement and the protection of the rights of parties, the protection of public interest and the protection of objective legality have been said. Of course, we are talking about protection only after the lawsuits against the conduct or failure of the public-legal body. after violation of the right of citizens or legal persons. So at first reading, I said that the debate on this law should be held in the debates as well as by colleagues who spoke before me by the Minister of Administration for the authority of the Ministry of Administration in relation to the conduct of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The public debate also mentioned the preventive role of this law in terms of faith that the principle of judicial protection would act preventively so that officials or officials would not exceed the powers of the executive or administrative authority to the detriment of citizens. I honestly doubt the preventive action of this law for two reasons. First, there is no guarantee that the court proceedings will last long enough so that decisions or silence of the administration would not harm the parties. Second, for the non-execution of a court ruling, it is prescribed that the court may impose fines for the head of the body up to the level of one month's average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. This sanction would act preventively if it were to apply to an officer authorised to conduct a administrative procedure whose decision has been abolished. That's why we think this punishment is incomplete. And for the rulings of the Administrative Court which are ordered by the state or body of the public authority to compensate the damaged citizens, there is always some new form of postponement that makes the state and public authorities more harmful than the actual material damage because it creates the mistrust of citizens in the institutions of the state. We therefore need effective judicial supervision of the legality of the work of the administration and this is one of the most important issues of the administrative law of each country. It is one of the instruments of control of the government they call the Law on the Efficiency of Government in some countries, but unfortunately, it is still ineffective with us because it is slow. Last week, a colleague also spoke about the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, and we know that the Constitutional Court reached a verdict only five years after the appeal was filed. Five years, and they tell me it's relatively fast. In five years, she graduates from law school. And administrative disputes last longer. We also talked about the fact that until 2012 citizens and entrepreneurs in disputes with the state had no right to an impartial trial because in non-public sessions it was decided without oral and contradictory debates, and the Administrative Court was not even a court with full powers in the trial. Of course, that's why we now support the amendments and additions to this law because it's being resolved. We know that in administrative disputes we have a 4-degree procedure but we hope it will be effective. And even when it is clear that the dispute will be lost by the leaders of the public authority or by the public or executive authorities, they act in the same way because they know that the dispute will take so long and the payment is likely to become someone else's concern. That is why we hope that these changes and additions will lead to a more efficient and faster trial. Because, of course, it's a key issue for the legal security of citizens. We believe that this law partially resolves it, of course, in all the discussions we have said that this is an introduction and that there will be some other improvements and new amendments and additions to the law will be made. Because the legislator must find instruments to generally reduce the need to conduct a administrative procedure i.e. that officials who conduct the administrative procedure in resolving administrative matters pay more attention to the determination of the facts and circumstances relevant for the adoption of a legal solution, than to that folk sentence, "More horse where your boss tells you." These amendments and additions are kept in step towards a better administrative trial, and therefore the HNS Club will support the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94483	Would the proposing representative like to address the Parliament in a final fashion? Here is Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, deputy minister of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94484	Thank you very much. Here's my thanks for the discussion and the well-intentioned suggestions. In short, I will say that, of course, the amendment of the government was submitted and was submitted with the aim of making the text of the law more perfect than we did when we wrote it. And between the two readings, of course, everything that can be corrected and for a better purpose is welcome, as regards the provisions of Article 76 and the renewal of the procedure. According to the existing law, the deadline for the request for renewal is limited to a period of one year if the Judge who was to be exempted participated in the decision was to take part. In order to establish the power of decision, we believe that this deadline should be put behind two other reasons for the renewal of the procedure that we have provided for in these amendments, which is the reason why if the party has learned about the new facts or obtained the possibility to use new evidence, or if the person concerned has not been given the opportunity to participate in the procedure. For these two reasons, the deadline within which the renewal of the procedure may be requested will also be one year. You were talking about the judicial academy, the judicial academy was just set up to do the work of the judge's education. In addition to the judges, we believe and we are deeply convinced that proper application, not only of the Law on Administrative Disputes, but also of the decision on the rights in the administrative procedure requires the education of civil servants and subsistence, and this is governed by the Law on the formation and detour of ministries and other state bodies that prescribes education in this regard. Therefore, the Law on Administrative Disputes is not the law that will regulate education, which you yourself have mentioned. We, in light of the remarks made by the Ombudsman, have expressed an indication in the sense of who is responsible for regulating education and certainly did not go to prevent or prevent education, on the contrary, we are very aware that this is necessary and necessary. We talked about the fact that this establishment of the right to appeal, the extension of the reason why the complaint against the act of the public authorities can be filed, that it will increase and make the proceedings longer and that it will in fact make it impossible to complete the case in a timely manner. That understanding that might be, I'd say symptomatic. Those who understand the system of action of the judiciary a little deeper, know very well what it really means to unify judicial practice. Equality of court practice is not a concept which means that courts will now decide equally and that the effect will be stopped. The point is that by unifying court practice, further increases in court cases will be prevented. And that is exactly the goal we want to achieve by this provision. We've introduced two stages of administrative trial, not four. The administrative dispute is now resolved in a number of cases in two degrees. By allowing the High Administrative Court to equalise judicial practice, we will prevent new administrative disputes from emerging precisely because it will know how a certain disputed situation is resolved because it has thus established a higher finding as a case law. So, in a simple view of things, we can say that the proceedings will be extended, but in a deeper discussion of how the judiciary works, it will certainly lead to the reduction of the number of cases in general. You were saying whether the Ministry of Administration participated, that of course we passed this law in cooperation with the Ministry of Administration and even their suggestions were actually all that they had adopted. We also carried out a procedure with an interested public and it is attached to you with the final proposal. The article 35 was also discussed, and now we have a debate on the final proposal for a law. In the final proposal for a law, Article 10 amends Article 37, and that Article 37(2) refers to a judge of an individual. Therefore, this final proposal is as far as standardising provisions are fully complex. So I can conclude that the suggestions that you have made and only one more thing if I may add, you will remember very well that we have introduced administrative courts precisely to enable the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to give their fundamental human rights the right to access the court in accordance with Article 6. Law on the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Therefore, citizens have the right to have an impartial law established for them to decide on their fundamental rights and therefore to extend or establish the jurisdiction of the Administrative Courts. If and to what extent it can be limited in view of Article 6. The European Convention would not agree, but that in a certain future and based on a much deeper and larger analysis that should be carried out in a different way, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Courts should be established, I agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94485	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas. First respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94486	Thank you very much. Well, esteemed deputy, I don't want to challenge the reasons of the government's amendment so that he, as you said, would be more perfectly arranged for Article 76. But I'm just suggesting that since this is a second reading, that he could have been in the text, not that later on with the amendment, that he would have arranged it. And what you said about the judicial academy. So I can only conclude that the role of a judicial academy even from this answer that we received from your ministry is consciously in some way neglected. This can be seen from the number of employees that was 2011. 3.630, 2012. 1.548, that it is a drastically reduced number of workshops and other activities, with the programme council without reason does not want to take some topics as European right to engage, such things are purely what I was talking about. I think it's in some way the role of the Judicial Academy given knowing whether unconsciously, whether it's simply acknowledging the inability to solve problems within that institution, I can't claim it, but in some ways it's read out from the debates so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94487	The reply corresponds to the deputy minister of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94488	Thank you very much. So I'm going to have to challenge you just not to work on that I'm going to repeat what I said. We are well aware that education, permanent education of judges and not only judges but also others who participate in the judicial procedure is our primary activity and it will only, in the right sense, lead to what the objective is, and that is to improve the justice system. And I certainly can't agree with you to work to limit or disable the work of the academy, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94489	Second replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94490	Thank you very much. So I'm going to deny you respected deputies, you can hardly see here the manuscript of the Ministry of Administration which is the main user of the services of the courts we spoke of, but I didn't answer for it, but because of your thesis that unifying the court bang would lead to a reduced number of cases in front of the administrative courts, I was talking about something else. I have spoken of individual laws which each to avoid the obligation to make an appeal to the citizens of this country, prescribes the jurisdiction of administrative courts or directs all citizens dissatisfied with the conduct of the body of the state administration or the public authority to a administrative trial. You won't be able to reduce any court practice. You would have to prescribe in this law when an administrative trial can be initiated in a way that discourages all authors by certain ministries to avoid the right to appeal by prescribing the jurisdiction of administrative courts. In other words, tomorrow, if you're going to have a Telecommunications Act that the citizen has no right to appeal but he can start a administrative dispute, you'll get a new 5,000 cases in front of the administrative courts, that's what I'm talking about. This is not a uniformity of judicial practice that can be resolved, and at least any session or principle that would eventually be brought by the High Administrative Court. That is why I think it is necessary to prevent the flood of the case before administrative courts that will stifle them in their work when administrative disputes can be conducted at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94491	I'm closing the debate on this point of the daily beam. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94492	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative disputes, second reading, P.Z. No. 690. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was submitted within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. That is why I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 20 abstentions, nothing against votes has been adopted and a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes in the text has been passed as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94493	We move on to: - Final draft law amending the Law on Property and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 756 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94494	Thank you very much. At the time of entry into force of the Law on Property and other real rights, as well as the Law on Land Books, which was on 1st January 1997, the current land-book situation in a large number of cases was inconsistencies with the real state of real estate. There was a particular discrepancy between land-booking and real estates that were formerly socially owned because of common problems and difficulties in the conversion of social property into private property. Land books are a public register of real rights on real estate in the Republic of Croatia, and since real property rights are obtained only by registering in land books, land-book entries have so-called. the public function, i.e. they are visible to the outside and act absolutely and can be protected and realised in relation to all persons. This publicity of land and book registrations also results in special legal effects in real estate transport. So the enrollment of land-book law creates a dwindling presumption that the person enrolled in the land books is indeed the real bearer of that right. So it is possible to prove that the person enrolled is not the real owner or holder of a real property right but not always. In fact, the public office is based on the protection of the trust of one who is an honest acquirer in the true and legal state of the land books. Here it is possible to prove that the land-book entry is not the same or to require correction or erasure of such an entry, but it is a time during which such a request may be requested limited. Namely, the real - right acquirer of real estate who treated with trust in land books believing that what was written and true, he would gain his right to be challenged so - called. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. An action for erasing, valid registration may be brought within 60 days or within an absolute period of three years. After the expiry of those deadlines, the enrolment is inconclusive. Legal effects of protecting trust in the completeness of the land-book means that one who is an honest acquirer only acquires what is written in land books in terms of the extent of what he has acquired. The full publicity of land books is the achievement of the principle of protection of trust in the truth and the phasing out of land registrations is not possible in relation to those acquisitions where they were established, those properties on which social property was established and not deleted before the entry into force of the Property Act or before 1 January 1997. Why? Because the complete conversion of social property and we know that social property has developed since '45. It is therefore not possible to implement 55 years until 1 January 2015. Until this process of conversion is fully completed, it is not possible to achieve the principle of trust protection in the truthfulness and completeness of these land-based entries, as I said, they are then created, they become absolute, if they become absolute, it is possible that there will be adverse consequences for our country and for other holders of former rights who will no longer be able to respond to such arrests. Therefore, the protection of trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land books will not be applied to the benefit of acquisitions which take place by 1 January 2017, as we now propose, if such entries acquire real estate in which social property has been entered and have not been deleted before the entry into force of the Property Act and other legal matters. Real estate rights holders may request, during a transitional period, the erasure of invalid entries and may also require the registration of their extra-booked rights, regardless of the rules on the protection of trust in the land register, or regardless of the fact that in other situations, the honest acquirer would be able to obtain his or her right irrefutable. During this transitional period and according to honest acquirers will not be affected by this impenetrable... on the truthfulness and completely land-based state of affairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will stress that Article 338(6) of December 2006 provides for an exception to a fixed period of delay and protection of trust. The exception refers to the properties that are located in the catastrian municipalities for which the so-called open area is open. The EOP land book as well as the properties that were entered into the land library database according to the specific provisions of the Law on Land Books. The protection of trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land registers has been applied absolutely since 1 January 2007. Out of the million 522 thousand 356 land-based book particles held as social property, the courts registered the Republic of Croatia as the owner of a million and 90,000 004 particles on a proposal from the State's Attorney's Office and prepared another 30,000 proposals expected to be completed by the end of the year. Also, 17 thousand 613 applications were submitted to the competent offices for spatial planning for issuing the necessary convictions preceding court proceedings for the purposes of registering the Republic of Croatia on agricultural land. For 294,000 649 particles registered as social property, it will be necessary to carry out a book on units of local self-government. I'm just saying this to show that it's not easy to convert social property or to other legal entities and for 87 thousand 647 particles there's no basis for enrolment because it's a public good or general good. It is therefore certain that, during this period, exceptional progress has been made in registering social property or in enrolment of titleholders of ownership over these properties, but the procedure is not absolutely and completely complete. There are about 4% of unfinished social property conversion processes left and 4% are not negligible categories, it certainly does not allow us to establish the principle of trust in the truthfulness of the enrolment. And because of these 4%, we will postpone the application, i.e. we propose a postponement of the application until 2017. We must stress the fact that the properties representing tourism land are mostly listed as social property and we are aware of the problems arising from the conversion and privatisation of tourist companies and inputs, i.e. not the introduction of this property into core capital etc.. In this context, it is also necessary to protect these properties by delaying the principle of trust protection because it is very financially expressed values and it is estimated that the tourist land covers over 20 million squares. Therefore, on the basis of an objective assessment of the time needed to complete the process of harmonisation and renewal of land books and with a view to protecting existing rights and preventing major damages, it is proposed that the principle of trust in the legal traffic of real estate is not applied in favour of the acquisition of property on which social property was entered and is not deleted and not covered by this Article... 8th paragraph 6. Law on ownership until 1 January 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94495	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Deputy, I have listened very carefully to you and from what you were saying at the outset, you claim that there are about 4% of the properties that were registered in state property for resolution. According to what you said and the comparison with the amendment of the law, which was made in 2009, i.e. at the end of 2009, and by the law that came into force on 1 January 2010, it was also, and then in the reasoning of the law, it said that 4% remained. From this it would be concluded that in the past, here in the full four years has not been resolved any enrolment and deleted... ownership and registration of either the Republic of Croatia, or the unit of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm interested in how then if in those six years, in these four years that are behind us and to the extent that we should have made the most of the enrolment... the property on the particles on which it is registered... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you intend to do it in the next two years, I say when we're not four years behind us almost then they signed up for nothing because at that time, I was working on the bill, too, we were determined that there were 4% of the total unsolved particles left on them state property and then, in that sense, either it's a real deadline or it's a short period, too short to solve all the other dues that remain on those properties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94497	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Davorin Mlakar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94498	Thank you very much. Since there aren't too many people, we might be able to make it in this time. I like to have some for my arrival. I have to admit, this is one of the more extensive laws, but no matter what, he found us. What would you like to say to the President of the Croatian Parliament, for the sake of the public, I will say a few things, perhaps to make it clearer to us. Today is December 2, 2014, and my question is to the motionary, the Government, not specifically to Mrs Artuković, but to the government's proposer, which we did until December 2, 2014, who woke up late and realized that from January 1, 2015, some provisions are in effect, starting to run some deadlines that do not fit us. Something counterpart Bacic also said about what percentage remained to be arranged and what has happened in the past four years. It seems that the proposed Government of the Republic of Croatia, whose many jobs are not interesting or important anyway, which we often hear from the president, fell asleep and realized 10 days before the end of the regular session of the Assembly in this year that some deadlines are coming and decided by one norm, by law which has two articles, to say that the words of 1 January 2015 are replaced by the words of 1 January 2017 and that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The People's Journal". It's the content of this law. The essence of this law is the fact that long ago someone has found that property in the Republic of Croatia is acquired by not buying real estate, not by paying the contracted price, but only after you have done everything by registering your property in the land book. And it's become a presummation of acquisition of property which, of course, is not worth it anyway. The practice of the Supreme Court and their words thank God are different from what teachers at the Faculty of Law often think in Zagreb because, according to one of them, you would never have acquired property, and the court went pragmatically to determine that regardless of this premise that stands so firmly in the law you must respect the legality of markets and daily and purchase contracts and jobs, so it claimed that you could acquire property under certain conditions and when not implemented in land books. On the other hand, we have already started working in the 1990s to make land books available to everyone through internet portals. Unfortunately, even today when you are looking at individual land-book cartridges you will get instructions that they serve you for information, but that they are not documents that can be used in legal traffic, and this long-started job has not yet been completed. Now the government is suggesting that we extend the deadline that stands out here by 28 days to another two years because someone has not been able to do their job, a colleague said 4% of the remaining unlisted properties on which social property was once registered. So DORH wasn't doing his job. When we talked about the State's Attorney's Office's work report, then we're always obsessed with their successes in the area of criminal law. And when he spoke to the attorney general, and then I said, we are interested in the other two responsibilities of the State's Attorney's Office: working in civil matters and working in administrative matters. But since they are much less media attractive in our country than criminal proceedings, it is often said little or no. And this is an example of how they worked, so 4% of unlisted properties in four years failed to solve, and now the government says we expect to, we expect to solve it in the next two years. Based on what? Based on the assessment that in the past four years we have not entered any real estate or something important has changed. If it is changed then it is likely that the source of the necessary means to implement this law will be marked as requiring additional resources in the state budget to implement this law. Proposer says she won't. This is to conclude that you have money in those positions without using it so that each year, at the end of the year, you have been returned to the Treasury by the neutral means. And you have not met the purpose for which those funds were intended in certain positions. And so we could all the time talk about what you've proposed to this law, except that it's white that none of those in debt have done their job. And now it is suggested to the Parliament to make the most strange decision, which is to postpone the principle of trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land books, to apply the principle for two years. The application of the legal principles of this general type cannot be delayed. Trust in public registers or exists or does not exist, it cannot be postponed. You can pass a standard in this law that you can't say you can't do this at a certain time, but the principle of trust in land books can't be a principle if we can't implement it. So if you don't think property can be acquired until it's implemented in land books, then you need to give up the principle that certain legal principles are delayed in their application. That's what I'd say even logically isn't possible. These principles either exist or do not exist. And if there are then there are for all parties to legal traffic. And for those where there is a right of ownership which is unequivocal because it went from private to private, and where you did not carry out the procedure you did not replace the social property with the proper kind of ownership, you have to edit differently. And you can't delay trust in land books for a given category for two years. Postponing trust would mean mistrust if we went now to explain what you suggested. This means that we cannot trust registers or land books, and this shows everyday practice. Because if there are land-booked excerpts that I can view online, I can't go into them but they can't be used because they don't have the validity of a public document, if I can see that there's something that's not true in land books, and then trust in land books, and there's no such thing as completeness and truth. And that would be given the years in which we are waiting for a solution to fully land-based books, it would be a real and fair approach. It cannot be acquired or can acquire property as it was once out of book, so you had collections of contracted contracts in garneries. The question of acquisition can also be resolved in a different way, not every time for two or more years delay the application of the principle accepted by civilized peoples. That's why I think this is essentially the wrong approach, the wrong approach, but I would say impossible because in this way you can't talk about the legal principles as proposed. But it can be said that the job is not a complete job of editing land books completed and that this requires that property matters be dealt with in a different way. I don't want to go into further discussions, so let me tell you what all of them are, in fact, the destructive action of our bodies, which led to what led you not today, the Deputy Minister spoke of tourist land, that you can't even decide today to say the revenues that are certain because the City of Zagreb is unable to sell business premises because the issue of ownership or booking on the property of concrete spaces has not been resolved. It is certainly not just the City of Zagreb. If the state had, for example, with the City of Zagreb, not yet resolved the issue of ownership of those same business spaces where people who carry out their activities want to buy these business premises to get rid of this long-term lease and transfer of the rights of tenants from one to another via commissions, which the City of Zagreb has been doing well for decades but has not come to the final I would say healthy and expected funds that could have been obtained by selling these spaces. All these are the problems that arise because of the outstanding issue of land books. However, given that they were not resolved and that before the end of the year the government admitted that nothing had been done, it would have been a turn for you to have found a standard instead of this 2-year prolongata that could replace the standard that is based on the principle of trust in the truth and completeness of land books because it is simply not true in accordance with the Law on Property and other real rights. Therefore, it would actually be most correct from the point of view of the legal profession to withdraw this law or to replace it with a norm that could delay the application of some of the institutes of this law in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94499	Thank you. The replica was answered by the esteemed Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, what you're saying is whether or not we can trust the records that are in the land book in this way. However, I answered two things. The real thing is, you know what it was like when we passed the State Property Management Act, how the former government actually did, especially the HDZ government didn't know how to manage that land because it simply didn't have any data on how much real estate was even owned by the state. And when you compare this law today, and in particular its reasoning with the 2009 law, when in that law, that is to say, how much data is in the Republic of Croatia, how much property is entered as state property, how many are solved, how many are left disputed, and today when you see an explanation in which no number of particles are written and which are to be solved, then the question is whether it was more settled when there was no register or today when there is a register and we as parliamentary representatives do not have any information from that register that was published on 1 January 2014. That's one thing. And the other thing, the deputy lady said there was about 4% left, 4% in the Republic of Croatia somewhere around 480 thousand particles. If we solved them, which Mrs. Deputy said earlier, if a million and 100 grand, a way over the past 18 years since the Property Act and other real rights were in force, we've solved about 60 grand a year. That dynamic would take us 8 years to get 4% and 480 grand left. So now I'm asking a question about how we're going to solve it in two years, something that we've been working on for 16 years with the dynamics behind us? Therefore, I agree with you either this deadline should be changed or a different standard should be set. Because we're going to get into a situation very quickly that we're going to say, you know, we'd still be longing for at least three, four years. Because in that time, we won't be able to solve the enrollment of these 4% of the real estate in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94501	The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94502	Comrade Bačić, you have now gone to the data the ministry, or the government does not want to deliver because it probably doesn't even have that data and you have actually motivated me to do the replica to tell you that if the vice president hadn't reproved me, you're wrong. The government could solve the issue much shorter if it had an idea of how and who would do the job. So I was just saying, by the way, that in the '90s, a whole project was built to cover land books in some kind of information form so that everyone could use data from land books. Perhaps then, with the best intention, the promoters did not know what kind of problem there is in the land books, which should be established there, reconstructing certain cartridges that do not exist, and the miracles of some criminal enrolment to the failures due to the inactions that took place over ten years. But this isn't the way. We bring some legal principles that hinders the de facto legal treatment of all, especially private persons, and then we propose in Parliament that we delay the application of the principle. That's what I said already logically impossible. The principles either exist or don't exist. And this way that the government is unable to settle their work on time is the best indicator in this short law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94503	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief in my debate, my debate will be pragmatic and I won't be philosophically theoretical. Why would I be pragmatic? For a very simple reason. The fact is that a two-year period is extended primarily to protect the rights of ownership of the Republic of Croatia. Did we turn all social property into ownership of the Republic of Croatia today on December 2nd or not, did we do business more or less quality and I don't mean just this government? I don't think it affects whether these amendments and additions of the law should be passed. I do not think it is at all questionable that the recording of the rights of ownership of the Republic of Croatia, public and general goods should be made and how much of the great strategic importance this fact is for the state. The deadline expires on 1.1.2015 under the existing law. The fact that we have to extend that deadline is the fact that about a million and a half land-based book particles that had this or that form of social property is almost a million and which was solved in a way that the Republic of Croatia owns and that this, although it doesn't look much, 4% size is enough to make these forty thousand particles that have been solved in an adequate way and it will certainly be done in these next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94505	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94506	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister. As you pointed out, and I sort of realized that it was primarily about extending the deadline for enrollment in the land book of social property, and that's some 44 thousand particles that remained, cca around, you said yourself that the total social property was a million and 525, 6 thousand particles, that the state property had been passed by a million and 100 thousand, let's say a million and 96, and that there was about 4% of what per million and 100 remained, so 44 thousand about. But what I wanted by thinking too much when I was not a lawyer thinking about this matter he wanted to point out rather than ask a little questions because I'm not skilled enough at these things as a doctor, is what for example. You were talking about tourist land and that there is 20 million square meters in there, when we turn it into hectares that is 200 thousand hectares of tourist land or 20 square kilometers, if we turn millions of square meters into kilometers. Now that we're talking about this tourist land, I have to ask if that's what this is about and that when you come in, for example. In the Kastastar municipality of Vir and then you see ownership of particles, the one that is private is private, but very often almost 50% of the enrolment writes ownership of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, it is also done when a person is interested in the customer as a private investor to do something or build, then information is received that it is not actually the owner of the company, it is listed in the book as the owner of the Republic of Croatia, and in fact it is a former private property, where the owner did not report and did not report and is listed as owned by the Republic of Croatia. So this time I ask you, I know that these private owners, and private property is sacred or as the English and Americans private property so they can run the procedure or for them the date from 1 January 2015 is worth it or because of that and because of that it moves this date to 1st of January 2017, that's one thing. The second thing I wanted to ask was, and I asked you in writing, so the Ministry of Justice almost two months ago, and that's what the citizens who once lived in the Boricevic area of Boricevic in the area of Spain under Pupuk, in the Zrina area in Zrinsko gora, how they are descendants mostly, and there are survivors and living ones who can come to their private property that they owned for hundreds of years, and now they can't even come or very hard to come to the possessions of their grandfathers, grandfathers, fathers. I asked them what regulations prevent them from restoring their private or inherited property, so it's about particles of land particles. I haven't got the answer yet. So this is an opportunity for us to discuss the very thing about land books about the right to enroll, etc. You first mention the registration of social property conversion. So it's that conversion that's been marked by a lot of what was and parts as someone said here marked in some cases and crime and wrong entries, etc. So here I would if you could answer me these questions. And since private ownership is sacred and since there are 4% more standing, they have been standing since 2009 as Mr. Bačić said for 4.5 years, and we have been standing on those 4% or 44 thousand particles that have not moved anywhere, so there has been no positive shift. This clear responsibility shall be borne by the part dealing with the management of the DORH, etc. It is not just crime, corruption and the rest of what the DORH is dealing with but also these things dealing with state property or the transformation of society into state and where the DORH gives a positive or negative opinion or gives its opinion. Well, given what I said about people who lived and were expelled from Boricevic, from Zrinj, there are other places in Croatia, I would like to know in which way these people can regain their property by 1.1.If nothing else in 2017, and how to put into function the particle that will take place after 1.1.2017, and were privately owned and now entered into the country of Croatia. People want to build, work private investment, and you have a registration of the state of Croatia. So, my colleague, Mlakar, is a theorist and all, but here I read a few practical things from this bill and put it on my mind, respecting the state's arrangements at some point even if it were 1.1.2017, so land books, if that's the case. And in good faith, the HDSSB club will be for this legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94507	The replica was reported by the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94508	My colleague Grubisic, I was told to be offended when I called one man a composer. Don't insult me that I'm theorist, please. That's worth the heads-up, but you did well. But you suggested one important thing now came to mind. This is not the principle of trust in the truthfulness of land books, this is the principle who didn't hide the donkey was. Because the ones you're talking about that could possibly have been counting on from 1.1.2015 to achieve someone's right on the basis of the principles we've taken over in our legislation now will wait two more years for the state's attorney's office to solve these issues at this speed, and so far within two years, clean up those 4% of the cases they still have left. In doing so, no one from the government has offered an analysis to see what's in it, what's in it, because unfortunately ownership legal relations are not solved either by this extension of deadlines or good wishes. These are usually long-term and complicated procedures, and we suspect that this is a good solution in advance. It could've been done the other way, but the best thing about it is that it's for this 2.12. The government solved even in an emergency procedure. So neither can we read much, is that the short bill is quite short text, but it is to be commended that unlike otherwise, in this case the Government has been napping for three years and now in an emergency procedure 10 days before the end of the session this way solves this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94509	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94510	Thank you very much, dear fellow Young Man, for reminding me... when you thought and when you insulted a gentleman because he's a composer, I don't know if he's in ZAMP or where he's got no idea where he is, but when I said you were a theorists, that was commendable to you, I said it with the best intention because you're a kind of expert right and you know the right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I sometimes tell you when, here and when you've now been exposed almost that I can't follow you very professionally and theoretically. And that's why I said I was pragmatic, so I brought out specific cases, so specific cases. You've really wrapped it up, but that's why I expected you to do it if you're not already theorist that you have a much better solution so you can expose it here. Here I haven't heard from you that better solution, now you've mentioned it again so let us know. Give them a whisper, let them hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94511	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. This law is really very simple in these two articles, where certain solutions are made from 1 January 2015 for 1 January 2017. Two years because no job has been done that might be done for objective, subjective reasons, now I wouldn't get into it he didn't do. I'd take this opportunity to say something to the public about only property rights. The right of ownership is indeed the right to a certain thing that empowers its holder to benefit from it, to do as it pleases, and to exclude each other from it if it is not contrary to other people's rights or legal restrictions. The owner has the right to use, use, dispose of his or her belongings. The owner of things must not exercise his right of ownership across borders which are laid down by law by all owners to protect the interests and security of the state, nature, human environment and human health. The right of ownership can apply to real estate and moving things. According to the regulation of maritime and air transport, ships, even though they are obviously moving things because of high values are placed in a legal regime that resembles what they have. Shares in stock companies, shares and certain other so-called Securities in a legal sense are considered moving things which can be property and can then be bought, pawned and the like. In the case of original legal solutions from the past, the so-called so-called A paper that really was a moving thing. Then the owner or holder of limited goods and securities rights had permanent other powers, e.g. the right to participate in the payment of the profits of the stock companies. Today, such securities are rarely issued in physical form, mainly in the case of flat computer records, for example, central depository, unrealised securities. For such immaterial securities it is common to define that they are real. Such legal fiction enables sales, pawnage and similar usual securities transactions. Ownership is the right that gives its holder the widest scope of ownership amongst the so-called so-called owners. real rights. Real rights which are of less scope and reach called legal profession are limited real rights. Such a term is used in the very text of the Property Act and other real rights. Limited real rights are the most often held by law and various services. Limited real rights are considered to be a burden on things that generally signify the right of ownership. In principle, the thing should always have the owner and may and may not have to be burdened with limited real rights. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 48 guarantees the right of ownership with important information: ownership is binding, rightholder and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good. Similarly, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and, again, with an important addition explaining that there is also the right of the State to apply the laws it deems necessary to regulate the use of ownership in accordance with the general interest or to ensure that taxes or other contributions or penalties are paid. The right to ownership is a top human right that ensures the safety of individuals within the state and society. The right of ownership enables groups of security of joint ownership. It enables individuals and groups to realise personal ambitions in creative and entrepreneurial activities. The right of ownership increases self-awareness, confirms personal identity and sense of belonging, gives man a strong sense of freedom. I would especially like to refer here to the importance of ownership in encouraging the development of private entrepreneurship. In my humble opinion, the highest quality move by the HDZ government in the 1990s was the sale of state-owned dwellings to those users under favourable conditions, not at this time entering the injustices that were happening at the time and which are still going on. Croatia thus became the country with the largest number of real estate owners in Europe. This decision has increased the credit and thus the business potential of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia hundreds of times. Private entrepreneurship, empiricalally proven, is the only real driver of any country's economic development. Unlike state entrepreneurship, which can in very special and specific circumstances stimulate some economic processes, but decisions by state entrepreneurship are in principle political and not economic and also state entrepreneurship is by its nature subject to corruption. Entrepreneurship in itself, and it is by definition the activity of individuals or private individuals, is an activity that requires knowledge, courage, creativity, ambition and a great positive energy, and for all these characteristics a real sense of freedom is necessary. I will repeat my belief which I have already said several times in my debates about the parliamentary speaker, in a small number of inhabitants of the country as our necessary is the development and promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, with all economic reasons and for the sense of justice and justice. In fact, it's hard for a self-aware individual to feel comfortable knowing that we all work for just a few super rich people. Otherwise, small and medium enterprises account for almost 90% of the number of business entities in Croatia, but so on. large entrepreneurs and states hold over 80% of the total value of the Croatian economy. In my deep conviction, it is necessary to change the paradigm's approach to the economy in favour of the overall privatisation and strong incentives of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I believe that the plan to achieve the objective of, say, 35% of the economic share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the overall economy of Croatia would be important for the development and strong promotion of the development of the economy, but not just for the economy, but for the overall progress of society. Such a goal would necessarily be at a small door but in large quantities introduce new technologies, modern achievements of European and global operating methods, with a positive development of all other practical activities, from the banking sector to public and state administration. Clearly, such a strong development of private entrepreneurship would encourage the development of the entire society and raising citizens' self-awareness, the climate in society would change in a positive direction. And for any entrepreneurship, the whole issue of ownership and land ownership, as well as fully arranged and arranged land books, is to be fully resolved. And that's why it's unusually important and the Property Act, and all of its changes and additions require our special attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94513	We have one replica. Dear Nevenka Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94514	Thank you very much. It's not Bencic. It's Vienna. Thank you. Comrade Blažeković, you pointed out in your presentation that ownership is something that gives a person the notion of freedom and that ownership is something that every man owns, owns a thing or something else because it is property. You pointed that out in your presentation and I agree with you that's how it should be. However, in this country, it is not because, as you normally explain, the fact that from the draft independent Republic of Croatia to this day, there is still no problem of ownership of some 3,000 private-owned apartments that they cannot enter into, and you have pointed out that ownership guarantees possession of things or property. I would ask you to explain to me how you were then and on what you were based on that thesis when in this country it wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94515	You must contact me if you want to respond. ... Come on, the closer we get to the rules of procedure, the closer we can get. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, answer me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And my colleague Bečić, first of all, I apologize to you for mispronounced your last name, and the second representative to our Rules of Procedure cannot ask questions at all. The questions can only be asked to the government, but come on, answer them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I apologize for not answering, but I think we could introduce another practice, which is that for once in the last word you hear whether you want to answer or not, and then it's pretty hard to react in that last word, but okay. I agree, practice is different, and I will respect it. I'm sorry if I brought you into any inconvenience. I agree, Mrs Bečić, I was talking about principles and that is mine, our discussions are more or less about principles and I agree with you that unfortunately in Croatia, Croatia is not the only one but in Croatia in particular, it is only important to us, there are numerous injustices. These injustices have occurred since the first day of our homeland, and we are all here together to correct them. I also noted within my debate that I believe that one of the most valuable things that HDZ's government brought in in the 1990s was the sale of social housing, along with the numerous injustices that were at that time and which were going on today, but thus Croatia became the country with the largest number of owners of real estate and thus it was obtained, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia received one huge credit potential for any purpose, no matter what, but also for the development of the economy. I agree with you that there are injustices, and we are all here together to try to correct you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94517	An individual debate, the esteemed Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister. I'd like to start by maybe some doubts about these numbers of objects that have been solved, plots, because I think that's important for what I'm trying to say. Namely, in Croatia it is listed in the cadastrian and land books of 13 million particles. Of the 13 million particles a million and 520 thousand were entered at the time when the Law on Property and other real rights on social property was passed. Since '96. So to this day, you've confirmed it, about a million and 100,000 particles have been solved. So there are 4% of the total number left and that's somewhere over 420 thousand plots to solve for then we have arranged particles that are formerly social property, and now should be partially solved on the Republic of Croatia part on units of local self-government or on natural or legal persons. My question was referred to you at the beginning of the replica when you first said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia means it in the next two years how much this proposal of the law promotes this trust in the principle of trust in the land book when 420 thousand particles should be solved in those two years, and yearly so far we solve 60 thousand particles with this dynamic. So we're going to need more, with this dynamic for seven years. I don't know what happened at the state administration primarily in the Central State Property Management Office, nor in the DORH that we can catch up with this dynamic this deadline that you've set for us. Therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, a colleague named Mlakar has rightly asked himself whether this deadline is at all appropriate, whether it makes sense or needs to do something else to enable the 420 thousand particles to be in the function of economic development of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Because this is exactly the principle of mistrust in the land book, and that is to 4% of all real estate in Croatia is a limiting factor in investing in the Republic of Croatia. Many politicians also talk about reasons why Croatia is not a friendly state for investors mention the issue of construction permits, local permits etc., etc. And the fundamental reason, I've been saying for years, is the fundamental reason why there can't be a real, full investment in the Republic of Croatia, and part of this problem that we're talking about today, which is unresolved property-legal relations. And where they might first be solved, and these are the particles that are mostly owned by the state. The second reason is certainly an unsettled legal system where we change income, profit and VAT laws once a year. Therefore, in this legal environment, who will invest in the Republic of Croatia, I am really surprised at every investor who is here in such a forest, even investing in Croatia. But what's one of his main obstacles to investment is what we're talking about today, these are unresolved property-legal relations. And so I'm surprised that this government has been on track for three years, and even today when we adopted the budget for next year, it has been constantly reducing the resources in the positions of the State Geodetic Authority which should allow for the resolution of what we are talking about. About 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities in Croatia, all 300 of them are in the process of new geodetic measurements and out of 300 of them only 100 have solved cadastre and land book and there is no dispute over this unresolved property-law issue and trust or the principle of trust in the land book. Therefore, there was a country on that part through the larger resources of the State Geodetic Authority, a larger means of making new cadastrian measurements for the creation of a new land book should have come to what we are talking about. In particular, it should have been done in those areas in the Republic of Croatia where the items have just been solved, and there are potential investors who can handle it. I'm going to give you an example of the Dubrovnik Coast Municipality of my county. There is an investor who is interested in investing a hotel resort in one part of the Dubrovnik coast municipality. And that's right on the property that's social property. Before 1991 or prior to the adoption of amendments to the Law on Building Land in 1991. They were building land by then. But since there is no ex-lege law in that section, something was built before '91. It is not automatically registered to a local self-government unit which is unacceptable to me there is an open court process that has been under way for years. He loses the unit of local self-government and loses the state, loses that interested investor or some others who could be eligible for construction in the competition. We too have a large number of examples. That, on the one hand, the State Attorney's Office, or DUDI, does not allow the entry and implementation of the law to really be the property of a local self-government unit that can then dispose of it and partially implement this project, rather than being impossible for anyone to take responsibility for themselves and say it is if it was '91. the year of construction land and registered as social property is today the property of the unit of local self-government especially if part of the purpose is implemented through numerous municipal activities that took place there. So it would be more appropriate or say state to recognise defeat, it should be said that it takes us another 8 years to solve all the remaining items in Croatia, these 420 thousand cases, or particles or, on the other hand, to change the laws to speed it up. Because you're nothing but prolonging the resolution, which is that you've been prolonging the registration resolution, you haven't done anything else, and that's not the answer because it shows and defines the past 16 years that have been behind us. It was necessary to go with new legal solutions that would speed up the procedure to determine who really is the legal follower of state ownership. Is it a unit of local self-government, is it the largest number of cases really is, is it a legal person or someone third, the fourth one that has, which can prove that the holder of ownership is on social property that was entered in the land book. That's why Mr. Mlakar rightly said that we can't or can't be at the club, but we won't do anything like this. And I'm not saying that he's from a constitutional legal aspect and I think the head of Mljet municipality filed a lawsuit against the amendment of the Law of Property and other real rights because he sold state property to a Russian oligarch seven, eight years ago, because he sold state property and in faith that it was the property of Mljet municipality. Not to say that, and I know that he filed a constitutional suit, where he is now I don't know, but the systematic legal aspect is almost unacceptable that the right to respect the principle of trust in the land book is worth 96% of the parcel, to 4% of the parcels in Croatia is not worth it. And I think that's where the state carries responsibility. We should have resolved within this period the question of these millions and 20 thousand properties that have been entered as state property since the creation of the Republic of Croatia until today, which is 24 years or 25 years since the creation of the Republic of Croatia we have not solved. Therefore, I am not really sure whether this amendment of the law will pass the constitutional court check, I am not sure because it has already been debated before whether this time-longing that the state affords itself will be able to solve this very important problem, whether this will, from the constitutional legal point of view, pass from such an amendment to the Law of Property and other real rights in the Constitutional Court. And secondly, we have passed the Law on the retention of illegally built buildings in space, and that legislation prescribed legalisation fees, i.e. for the legalization of illegally built buildings, and this fee was also thought to be purposely spent on the production of new cadastrian measurements and new cadastrian operatives, new land books. I'm afraid no single lip, no single lip that has been purposely determined to be, that the income of the state budget will be invested in the creation of a new real estate cadastre that is actually the basis for the construction of the land book. Because as you said in your introduction and said this provision, this law prolonging trust in the land book does not apply to those catastrian municipalities where a new land book was carried out and made a cadastre of real estate. If there were more of such catastrian municipalities, then this problem would be where and where it was smaller. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94519	We're moving on to replicas. First Reverend Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94520	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić, thank you for this discussion of yours because it seems to me now, theoretically, that they have heard a practical exposure to a handful of data that we have not received from the proposing but we have received from the parliamentary representatives. But more important than that, you're just here to point out that everything tangs such a change of law. We'll have a few days in the parliamentary debate and amendments to the Strategic Investment Act. It sounds so ghastly that I immediately stayed small under the stars but I think this practice that we now have with this delaying solution such as trust in land books is one of the great such imputes, or an emphasis on possible investors, which will happen to them when they enter our legal system. And even in this mess that we have, we're just stressing that it's better that they don't count on anything, so you who come leave every hope because nothing good can happen to you here. Only by the way are the problems mentioned with the right to own private apartment owners where there are tenants' rights, so people can't get their property. So it would be much more correct than the Proposer to give up such a change of law and offer some quality solutions than to insist on something that I would say by the domino effect would cause even bigger and bigger problems in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94521	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right, young man. It would be correct if the government had, in addition to such an amendment to the law, not in the normative part of it, but in addition to amending the law that it had provided us with data from the Register of State Property. If this were delivered to us then we might be able to know what these disputes are, how many of these 4% is really owned by the Republic or the state predominantly that the ownership of the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local self-government or someone else. But when you mentioned the law that awaits us these days in the Parliament, that is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Strategic Investment Projects Act, he is a colleague of the Mlakars for a full year. Well, since we at the HDZ Club have doubted the benefits of this law, I must tell you that unfortunately for the Republic of Croatia we have not been denied practice. Well, as you just said earlier, I was practically speaking, so I'm going to take some data out now. So, according to this Law on Strategic aesthetic projects, you know how many of these projects are identified on the list defined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Three projects. In a year, therefore, the law allowed the number and letters to identify three projects that are of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia and those who were without that law strategically. That's LNG, so the LNG project, and I think it's another project to build rail infrastructure. So, out of the strength of this law, which was so bombically announced here in the Croatian Parliament, in a year only three projects... from the public sector declared projects of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. As for private projects, private investments, foreign investments, here's the law that really didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94523	A new replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94524	Thank you very much. My colleague, and I have recognized my colleague Bačić, as well as Mr Mlakar, recognized a constructive proposal so that this delay could actually still be improved with a new legislative or legal regulation that would actually force the system to implement what needs to be implemented and what remains to be implemented. So here's the thing, even though his colleague's got a bit of an eyebrow on someone else's feathers, but since we're using the phrases, we can use it here. But what I noticed in your discussion, which is why I responded to the replica, is that you said that therefore the head of local self-government on the island of Mljet was in good faith, so you said, in good faith, he sold social land to the Russians and now it's a problem of slowness. When you sell, I, any of us, do you go to the garter to look, there in books, whose property is that? Or is the buyer going to take a look at it too? It's not clear to me that someone is in good faith, so they can't sell, so we don't sell a pen or I don't know what. I mean, it doesn't exactly seem to me like that finding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94525	Replication response, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I agree with you, but since I am a legalist, I respect the decision of the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia which is why he was not processed because if you and I were right, he would have been prosecuted, obviously we were not because it was said that he did not sell, that he had sold state land, but that there was no damage to the Republic because the purchaser did not register. Do you understand me? So, he did sell someone else's, though, but according to the interpretation of the competent authorities, it's not because there was no damage to the state budget because the one he sold it to, and that's one Russian... couldn't be entered into the land book just for the reason that social property was entered, so, in that part, we both agree that it was a criminal act, but here I said it was in good faith, in order to be precise in my sentence. And as for the rest, I think it was better that, by amending the law, we gave this amendment to the government... a tool that would speed up the resolution of these remaining 4% of all real estates in the Republic of Croatia that amounted to over 400 thousand to speed this up both with the administrative authorities and primarily with the judicial authorities. Namely, not even the courts, and perhaps the deputy lady could make her contribution, I think that the courts in the Republic of Croatia would have such disputes that the units of local self-government with the Republic of Croatia, which tend to several million kunas should have priority rather than be approximately the same level as setting the border, the border between the two neighbours, whether there is a 15-centimeter gap there, left or right, such disputes should be a priority for the Croatian judiciary to encourage investment. Not that they've been standing there in a single judge's office for years, not to say for decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94527	Final review, Deputy Justice Minister Mrs Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94528	Thank you very much. Through this little change of laws, we are talking about the capital and the biggest change that has occurred within this society, which is the change in ownership structure. So, the Republic of Croatia has come out of one ownership legal system, social property into another private ownership system. If it were so simple to make that conversion and it was a job that was short-lived, then we wouldn't have had that delay we had since '97. until 2009. So this period when we have delayed the principle of trust in land books shows that this system is not so easy to convert from one to another. There's an incorrect piece of information out here, and I've got to defuse it. So I can't explain and be responsible for the data that was presented in the amendment and supplemental proposal, that is, the prolongat of this provision from 2009, that data that we have presented, and you have confirmed in your discussion exactly, so of the 13 million cadastrian particles that were run as social property, there are about 400 thousand of them still to be converted. What is important here is to highlight, and we have heard some criticisms about the state's attorney's account, most of these 400 thousand concerns the enrolment of former social property in the name of units of local self-government and this is not necessarily in the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office, i.e. I want to say the state's attorney's office for those enquiries that concern the Republic of Croatia mainly did their own affairs, and why local self-government units are not at that pace, maybe it's part of the story and what we've heard here now, and I can say for a simple and short while, misunderstanding of the concept of the ownership legal system as we have now. In fact, beyond any doubt, it is beyond any debate that property can only be acquired by enrolment in land books. Every other arrangement of the acquisition of ownership rights disturbs this fundamental system that we established in 1997 with the new Law on Property and other real rights, or with the Law on Land Books. And in this context differently regulate the matter of delaying the principle of trust in land books means directly disrupting the ownership legal system we have and that is something we would certainly like to avoid because we are aware that these only bigger problems will be created than those we still have in the conversion of social property. You were talking about dynamics, that of course, you can add it up so that you can conclude that such a mathematical operation comes to a period of the next eight years, and we're saying that it's just not like that, so practice has already been established on this issue and you've also talked about court proceedings. The problem is that part of these procedures of enrolment of the property of the local self-government unit did not even come to the courts, but the local self-government units had something they thought was theirs, and it wasn't theirs at all, so then other problems were created here. What is important is that this amendment is not proposed to prevent investment, this amendment is proposed in order to protect the right of ownership or property owned by the Republic of Croatia or the units of local self-government. It is no problem to allow the registration of those who have acquired from non-owners what you mentioned and then, of course, sue the Republic for damages. Well, that would be very convenient because on the one hand you acquired property, on the other hand you still have the right to compensation for damages. It's definitely something we'd like to avoid. A concrete question has been raised regarding the resolution of the right of ownership of individual natural persons, I can only say in principle that the Ministry of Justice is not competent to handle individual cases. As with other citizens, there is a profession that provides adequate legal assistance in resolving property legal issues, therefore, private lawyers, and if it is about citizens who belong to a particular group that the government or through other associations or similar institutions can help in any way. There was also talk about the State Geodetic Authority, it is precisely the problem of understanding the ownership of the legal situation in that the catastrus reflects only spatial knowledge and spatial information on real estate, does not reflect ownership law. As I said, the public function of land books means that ownership is just what's written in the land books. Land books provide data on both the surface and this cadastrian section and ownership. If we work intensively enough, we will also be able to obtain data on the estimated value or on the financial part of the real estate, but not only can space be the same ownership, and that is certainly what in this system of ownership legal certainty will not allow the State Geodetic to be the one to take over ownership legal data. And in conclusion, you were saying that the state didn't solve it, and that's the point is that ownership is the right and obligation of the one who thinks he has it. The state can't solve everything and it's not even the point of this law. Therefore, if units of local self-government weigh in these remaining cases, they claim or claim to establish their right of ownership, then they themselves will have to bear the responsibility to establish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94529	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your honor, ma'am, you should be a little more careful when you're talking about someone presenting the wrong information, in the end, you've given the wrong information, I have to say it. First of all, it is not 13 million particles that are run as social property as you said, but 13 million particles is the total number of cadastar particles in the Republic of Croatia, million and 520 and some thousand are particles that are listed on social property and are left to solve around 400 thousand, which is 4% of the total amount of real estate in the Republic of Croatia. I just wanted to tell you that we're not going to solve this dynamic in two years. And just to remind you, in the last five years since this last prolongation has been in place, only 225 thousand particles have been solved, so over the past five years only 225 thousand particles have been solved, which means that this year is even less than that average is 40,000. Therefore, ours, and especially my debate was entirely well-intentioned and was heading towards the Ministry or Government to find instruments, legal instruments, and how to speed up the resolution of these entries on the particles on which social property is now registered in the land book. Let this be a priority even to Croatian courts to resolve where there are particle disputes that are entered into social property or to find some new legal instruments to speed up where we have a court dispute, and that the State's Attorney can enroll the Republic of Croatia or another legal person to get rid of it as soon as possible, that was the purpose of our debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94531	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? And that was final. Then I'll close the debate on the bill and we'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94532	We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Property and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 756. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 89 for, 19 abstentions and nothing against the law on the amendment of the Property Act and other real rights in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94533	We will also discuss: - Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of decisions and the adoption and enforcement of public documents in hereditary matters and establishing a European certificate of succession, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 751 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst will submit an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94534	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Since part of the citizens of the European Union resides and owns property outside its home country, the Regulation on jurisdiction, the applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of decisions and the adoption and enforcement of public documents in hereditary matters and establishing a European Certificate of Inheritance introduces a simpler legal regime in hereditary matters with a cross-border element. In this respect, the Enabling Regulation lays down uniform rules for international jurisdiction and applicable rights in hereditary matters, facilitates the recognition and enforcement of decisions and public documents in hereditary matters, and establishes so-called ‘the Eavesk’. European Certificate of Inheritance. For a person who is specified in the certificate as an heir, a legatar, an executive of a decision or a trustee, it shall be assumed that he has the status specified in the certificate and or the rights listed in the certificate. In order to ensure assumptions for the application of this Regulation in the Croatian legal system, the final proposal for a law implementing that Regulation shall define local jurisdiction, competent authorities and procedures in the field of application of the Regulation. In relation to the local jurisdiction for the decision on the leaving, the application of the provisions of the Inheritance Act is provided for, on local jurisdiction for the implementation of the matrimonial procedure relating to the procedure for the recognition and declaration of the enforcement of decisions and public documents in hereditary matters, the jurisdiction of municipal courts in the first instance and of the county courts in the second instance is provided for. And in relation to the competent authorities and the procedure for issuing the European Certificate of Inheritance, it is envisaged that the confirmation is issued by courts or public notaries as court commissioners in the event that the abandonment procedure is already being conducted in front of the public notary or when the public notary has made a decision on the succession. The amount of public notary fee shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure by the Minister of Justice, in the opinion of the Supreme Court and the Public Note Chamber, which shall be identical to that laid down in the Inheritance Act. The timeframe of the Inheritance Regulation shall be such that it was adopted in July 2012 and shall be fully applicable from 17 August 2015. Therefore, Member States were obliged to notify the European Commission by 16 November 2014 of where they came for the scope of the regulation, and we therefore propose that this law be urgently adopted in order to create all preconditions for the application of the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94535	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94536	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, you said it was a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 so on the desert procedure, and this is about the Inheritance Act, the European Certificate of Inheritance. I just wanted to maybe add it and you didn't mention that the Croatian diaspora in the European Union, Germany, France, Austria and elsewhere is very large. That we have a second generation and a third generation and that this particular matter that is being discussed by this law will help these people to have any dispute or inheritance in their property with this very certificate which therefore applies to the whole of Europe, which is, I think, good and I support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94537	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Tomorrow we will continue the session at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-02-0.u94538	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation No. 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on the adoption and enforcement of public documents in hereditary matters and establishing a European Certificate of Inheritance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 751. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 109 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the law on the implementation of EU Regulation No. 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on the adoption and enforcement of public documents in hereditary matters and establishing a European Certificate of Inheritance in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue at the plenary session of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament. I see one hand in the air from one MP, the usual situation in the Croatian Parliament. I see another hand. So, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
