ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64252	And now I see a colleague of Mile Horvat reporting, no. Mr. Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDSS representative's club is seeking a 10-minute break to consult on the vote on certain items of the agenda, above all on the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64254	Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64255	The Croatian Labour Club also seeks a break before the vote to discuss the issue of voting of the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64256	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64257	Same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64258	Shuker? Same reason. Did we all pick up who was going to pick up? I'm setting a 10-minute break and then we're back to work. MEETING AT 12:00 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64259	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] I want us to continue our work, so I'd like the representative of the SDSS Club of Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64260	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament is not part of the social partnership and social bargaining mechanism in the Republic of Croatia, but the Croatian Parliament has an obligation to take care of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution, and one of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution is social justice and the mechanism of social bargaining and social bargaining is the best way to either come to social justice or how to preserve it. For this reason, for the debate on the Labour Act, which was conducted in the Croatian Parliament and made observations and criticisms that we could hear, the SDSS Club proposes to adopt the following conclusion: The Croatian Parliament, following the first reading on the draft labour law, calls on the Government and trade unions to reach consensus on issues of the proposed law, such as the matter of working time, labour models, agency employment and the status and character of the working councils, which have been seen in the parliamentary debate and which have led to delays in the negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the social partners. The SDSS Club will see this conclusion as a condition that it could support the adoption of this bill in its first reading, with the belief that it can improve social dialogue between social partners. Why are we saying that? We are not just saying this because of the circumstances we currently have in Croatia, we are talking about the general trend that exists, and I would if you let me tell a few facts about this general trend. Not so long ago, European Socialists organised the publication of data related to the state of inequality in European countries and countries in the world. At the beginning or in the first half of the 3rd month, he will organise a debate where he will call on world-leading economic experts, where he will call on leading experts from politics, or political sciences, and address the topic with relevant debate. Why? Because indicators that can be read based on their findings are not only worrying, but frightening. In the '70s. In the 20th century, social inequality is growing rapidly and progressively. In the '70s, '80s. In the 20th century, the difference between the salary of workers and the salary of members of the US's leading ten companies was between 20 and 30 times. And you know how much it increased from the '90s to 2010. It has increased to be between 200 and 400 times higher, so members of the management of leading companies earn. In Great Britain, that difference is 300 times. What are the reasons that lead to inequality, other than this? There is, of course, an inequality that leads to the lack of unions and a weakness of trade unions and insufficient activation and membership of union employees. We have seen that, especially in the private sector, there are no satisfactory union organisations. They exist only in the state sector, they exist only in the public sector and something in large, large enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. Indices showing that in high-level countries or the highest level of social equality such as Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Luxemburg, union organisation is the most successful and best. Also in countries that show the lowest degree of inequality union organisation is the weakest. It's the same thing when it comes to politics. All countries that have caved in to deregulation, which have omitted flexibility, all countries that have bowed down and policies that have kneeled under the neoliberal mantra on cutting, on saving, on firing and on the flexibility of work record the growth of inequality and the growth of unemployment. That's what we need to be worried about, and that should be a reason to help us reach agreement on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64261	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64262	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The labour law is a deep social contract and I hope it's clear to everyone. Every social contract affects not only social but also political stability in every country. We warned you not to open a discussion of the Labour Act without re-trying to agree with the unions. You weren't listening. In addition to the social instability that has been going on in Croatia for too long, this will convey destabilisation and political stability if you remain stubborn. We warned don't do it, there's time because there's not a single economically justified reason for such a labour law. I don't know if you heard a fellow Rados half an hour ago discussing this point before he said the Croatian government has increasingly fewer allies. If it's not an alarm that you still need to be told what else to warn you about, I don't accept that the Allies are guilty of getting fewer, but the government has put itself in a position of no more allies. Who's he trying to please? To those employers who made over 2 billion profits from Croatia last year, not investing in Croatia, not a single lip. The structure of employees in which the distribution of work week and time will be abused with this law is right with them. The structure that uses it now, and you will especially be doing it for the benefit of agency workers, it is they, just all those who have abused it so far, and now they are even more comfortable with those who have earned the billions earned in Croatia from Croatia. The collective contract and the models that remain in the Labour Act on collective agreements destroys the union movement in the private sector. If it's all the same to you, you're sending a message that you're not counting on collective agreements anymore. A colleague, Pupovac, asked a question the day before yesterday that no one in Croatia is answering. Where's our capital? Where did our capital end, and what happens to it? I repeat the finding that it is socially irresponsible capitalists with only one interest, which is profit, and that stability and social Croatia and political stability do not care. Croatian citizens were experiments trying to change the new health model when you reduced your contribution to health insurance. When he broke the health system today, I read in the paper that he was planning to increase the return to 15%. This law on trace work is such a new experimentation attempt. You can't push a rock, you can stick it in the ground as much as you want, sooner or later it'll come out again. You can't push a rock, don't experiment with it because it's already proven. And the experiment is 3% of the deficit of the state budget, because those who have tried this experiment have today claimed that economic, social and social potential and only acceptable if GDP growth is 5%. And Croatia has a 1.2% GDP decline for the fourth quarter of last year, and in 2013 it is 1% compared to 2012. If you really want to go ahead and experiment with that rock you keep sticking into the ground, it'll be out soon. And therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest you postpone today's vote on the First Reading Law proposal to give the government a chance to restore social dialogue within the Economic and Social Council next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64263	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSU club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64264	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This proposed conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party has also helped us to remove some of the dilemmas and I can say that this is also a condition to support the law in the first reading and the Croatian party of pensioners. In fact, regardless of the quality of the debate here and the arguments pro counter us in Croatia, we believe that social dialogue has come out of the stage of the discussion with arguments and that it has entered an emotional phase that is not good. It is not good for the parties who are in conflict in emotional or emotional, to declare each other's performances a liar, and their goal is to build such a legislative infrastructure that leads in some way towards Croatia towards prosperity, not Croatia back. Social dialogue is a civilizational reach of Croatian society and we should all be concerned about the level of social dialogue, and it certainly is not, or will not, develop if each other through the media calls for them to sit at the negotiating table, and surely will if we institutionalise this social dialogue as we did before, where there are services, where there is correspondence between partners and who do concrete things and agree, in this case agree on the law of common positions and what is common good for workers, employers, authorities and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It can't be that the interest of one another is above the interest of another. There must be a balance of interest here and a deal must be reached between the social partners here. This, colleague Lesar said this is a deep social contract, no, gentlemen, this is the law. This is a law but this law is not expected to be passed by experts in the ministry but agreed by the social partners in a way that they think about what will happen and how the labour market will develop in the future in Croatia. Therefore, this conclusion of the Croatian Parliament expresses the desire for the partners to sit at the common table, to go from an emotional stage to the discussion of arguments, facts and planning of the future, so HSU, the club of representatives of HSU, will vote for this conclusion and thank a fellow SSDS for making it easier for us to have a dilemma and in some way give us the opportunity to support the law in the first reading, of course, on the condition that we accept this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64265	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64266	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So at the time it was announced that the decline in gross domestic product in the fourth quarter last year was 1.2% and the decline in gross domestic product was 1% for 2013. However, colleagues and colleagues fall for the government is not 1% point but 1.2% because the government has practically assured us that up to 31.12. that we will have economic growth 0.2%. So, when we have such a situation in terms of GDP, when we have 385 thousand unemployed, when we have estimates of both domestic experts and experts from international financial institutions outside the European Commission that the labour market will unfortunately stagnate in 2014, 2015 we in Croatia are abolishing, not us, but the government's social dialogue has practically disappeared. There is a Labour Act which is not accepted by those who should accept it and at least agree on it, which is trade unions, cups and governments, and if I repeat, the Government is here in double the role of one of the legislators, so as a bill promoter. However, let us not forget that the government is the largest employer in the Republic of Croatia, that it was very interested in what the Labour Act would look like. So we don't have social dialogue and what's worst about this Labour Act is not part of the package, part of the system reforms that should change these negative trends that we are talking about in Croatia. Because this Labour Act itself will not change anything in Croatia, because of it no new investor will come, it will not increase competitiveness and unfortunately will not reduce this number of 385 thousand unemployed but if this Labour Act were to result from any systematic reform that the state public administration as a result of removing obstacles to investors and a series of other reforms would probably make it easier for social partners to discuss certain provisions of this law. Why? So because these reforms would see something that is positive, which will simply eliminate a part of Croatian citizens from the stock market, lead to the growth of gross domestic product, lead to reduced social tensions that we have in the Republic of Croatia and lead to the growth of standards, and when you offer such arguments, no matter how much someone doesn't like some things, changes to the Labour Act because they might lose their own positions, the public will simply force them to vote for it. Why? Well, because then that law offers something that's for the greater good. Since such a proposal of the Labour Act is unfortunately neither but what is the biggest tragedy, when you look at the laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent over the past two months, then you will see that unfortunately for us in 2014 it has failed because in the first two months we did not have a single system law that would change this economic course, which would tell us, this law of the consequences of this law will be some significant investment or the consequences of this law will be the more significant change in the Croatian economy. That's why colleagues and colleagues when we talk about this Labour Act, then we need to look at it a little bit wider, and I'll talk about it later when there's a discussion about the addition of the agenda. Unfortunately, those who should offer reforms, those who should force us in a certain way to maybe think differently about this Labour Act, did not offer it to us. We have some technical laws, but I repeat, Croatia had a 1% drop in GDP last year. At this point, we have 358, 86 thousand unemployed, and this Labour Act is not going to change anything. Because of the lack of social dialogue, practically there is no social dialogue and because the Labour Act is not part of the systematic reforms in the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ Club cannot support this law in its first reading. And what we were saying when we debated the law, we suggest that the government try the second reading if it is possible... this dialogue with the unions, with the social partners and that this law be passed as part of the consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u64267	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72866	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We will discuss - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration, first reading, P.Z. No. 619 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. I ask, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yes, Your Honor's Minister of Management, Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72867	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration, it is proposed to re-establish the Office of State Administration in the Countys. Instead of 20 state administration offices in the counties, it is proposed to set up five state administration offices established in the area of several counties. The new model extends the local competence of the state administration's office to several counties, which will allow for more efficient distribution of jobs, i.e. even burdens in doing jobs in the wider area and thus faster solving of cases, which will ultimately affect the improvement of services to citizens and other parties. In order to achieve a level playing field for the Office of the State Administration, the proposal provides for the possibility that the Office of the State Administration may act in certain cases in the place of jurisdiction of the second State Administration Office if necessary in order to carry out operations effectively in a particular administrative area similar to that of the Court Act. The draft law also proposes that the establishment of a single administrative position of the State Administration's office in all administrative units of the State Administration's office, provides that at the unique administrative place of the Office of the State Administration of the Party, all requests may be made for the exercise of any right under the jurisdiction of the Office, obtaining information in the course of the case resolution, receipt of certificates, extracts and other documents, obtaining the prescribed forms, notices, advice and other assistance from the jurisdiction of the Office. The new office model allows for a stronger and more rational deconcentration of the state administration’s affairs, the unifying of administrative tasks in a single body of a much wider local authority under the sectoral principle of organisation and functioning will facilitate the coordination of operations and efficient offices. At the same time, the territorial expansion of the single administrative posts of the office will ensure easier and more direct provision of services to citizens. Although the main objective of the reorganisation is to improve, to provide administrative services, to establish a new model for the state administration's office, certain savings will also be achieved. The proposed law also addresses the issue of entry into force of the implementing rules and provides for the possibility that implementing rules may be exceptionally effective on the first day of publication in the NN, for particularly important reasons which must be clearly and accessible. In accordance with the decision and resolution of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the draft law distinguishes intervention measures from other implementing rules, regulates the arrangements and assumptions under which intervention measures are authorised and regulates the time of entry into force of them. Intervention measures within the meaning of this law propose to establish measures whose adoption and implementation are necessary for the immediate protection of freedom, the rights of other people, the legal order, public morality or the health of the population. For the purpose and purpose of which they serve, immediate protection, intervention measures shall take effect on the date of adoption and the intervention measures adopted will be published in the National Journal. The proposal for a law also proposes to regulate the way in which implementing rules are adopted in cases where several central authorities of the state administration need to cooperate to adopt certain implementing rules. The practice of joint adoption of implementing rules has already been introduced through a series of specific laws, with different normative solutions with previous opinions, with the agreement of the central authorities of the state administration to resolve the issue systematically, has been proposed to establish the possibility that in such cases a special law may authorise the heads of the central authorities of the State to jointly adopt a single implementing regulation or that the head of one central body of the state administration adopts an implementing regulation with the consent of another head, the central authority of the State administration. According to the current Implementing Regulation resolution, only the heads of the central authorities of the state administration may bring legal powers. It is estimated that such a solution is restrictive in relation to legal persons with public powers established for the performance of independent regulators’ activities and which, by nature, things as independent regulators should have at their disposal all legal instruments to regulate different relationships in their jurisdiction. It is therefore proposed that the implementing rules for the implementation of the law on the basis of explicit legal powers and within the limits of the powers conferred on legal persons with public powers whose special law establishes the status of independent regulators. The proposal for a law also provides for the possibility that the conduct of inspection tasks can be entrusted by a special law to a legal person who has public authority if the tasks of implementing the law relating to a specific area are fully entrusted to that legal person and the exercise of inspection supervision in that area, given the necessary expertise, could not be effectively carried out without additional costs in the body of the state administration. Such a possibility is not currently provided for by law, however, in practice the need for different regulation, the conduct of inspection tasks, in particular in cases where the implementation of laws relating to a specific area is fully entrusted to a legal person with public authority. In such cases, the central authorities of the state administration and do not have staff with adequate specialist knowledge of the conduct of inspection supervision, and it is necessary to provide for the possibility for legal persons with public authority to be entrusted and to carry out inspection tasks in such cases. It is a proposal, therefore, to amend the law in the first reading, and I call on MPs to discuss it and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72868	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72869	Thank you very much, Vice President. That's what you ministers presented quite quickly, I guess you got tired yesterday in this debate that lasted all day. So, of course, we support from the HDSSB club this all you said, but with one, or a little bit of a grudge, that's that this reduction in the number of public administration offices from 20 to 5 needs to be implemented, but we need to give them the exact names, because this is just the beginning of what we're all going to have to admit at some point, which is that the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, as it was 20 years ago, can no longer survive, and that we need to introduce regions or districts to call regions, however, one doesn't think that one of us wants to remove the counties for some political or other reason, should call the exact name of every unit of the state administration's office, and not count. Let them be called Slavonia and Baranja, Dalmatia, the city of Zagreb, southwestern Croatia, northwestern Croatia or already as it arises in a debate over all the apartments of political ones, but they should have their name in relation to the area of jurisdiction, not these numbers, because these numbers are as if you have come into a large hallway of various offices, so you don't know who the room belongs to. So we should call it true, we should not be afraid of the truth and the problems, we finally need to understand that the time when the Croatian state was created, that the counties and offices of state administrations and county administrations and a large number of municipalities and cities, that this is something that burdens Croatia, we just need to look at EU countries, for example. Denmark, as she did it, it was painful, there was a lot of rebellion, but in the end it all got effective, that's the goal, it should be the goal of every policy, so here, I want to sort of agree that we don't need to run away from the name of these state, the unit of state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72870	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72871	Thank you. Mr. Representative, I am pleased that you support the amendment proposal, and you are probably glad that I agree basically with what you said and if you look at the number 1 you recognize Dalmatia, in issue 2, 3, 4, 5 Slavonia, Baranja, central Croatia, northern Croatia and Istria, Croatia Primorje, Lika and Gorski Kotar. If that's how it's going to be in the second reading, I'd like it to be, and of course we're going to discuss and find the best solution for names. Here I have deliberately avoided talking about this issue because it has caused the public's greatest attention and I think we will find it relatively easy to find common language, so let's discuss it in substance, and then we'll look at this part outwardly, so we'll present what we're doing. Yes, in this first reading, we have decided on a neutral proposal, but we are certainly ready to consider these slightly more direct proposals, of course, along with the sentence that this can and does not have to be announced by a territorial reshuffle, so it does not have to be. Many state institutions have long been organised on this principle, which includes more counties and as you can see counties still exist, and what you said, so this proposal to round up the state administration's offices is being discussed at the Ministry of Administration and before I became a minister, so no one has been running from it, I think even somewhere since 2008, we've been talking about it, so here we are to discuss and see how we continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72872	The replica was also answered by the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, by reading this explanation of the amendments and the addition of this law, I really don't understand why... this, but a particularly interesting assessment of the source of the necessary means to implement the law and quote. You are saying that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the costs of implementing this law relating to the reshuffle of the Office of State Administration, means signboards, stamps, memoranda, will also be provided at the position of the Office of State Administration and County. This means that you have planned more funds for the 2014 budget than you need, that means that you have deceived this High House, which is not surprising for you as a Bračanin, known for saving that you have done it. However, according to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, you had to do something in the draft of this law, and you had to assess its fiscal impact. So, in this explanation of this law, you didn't specify the key thing because it's how many people work in these offices of the state administration that you want to reassess, what you're going to get with it, whether you're going to burn the money, and then if you're going to do it, then you should have said it in an assessment of the necessary means that it will take so much and so much less money and what jobs these new government offices will do because you haven't missed out here pointed out that doing inspection jobs can be entrusted with a special law to a legal person, meaning someone who's out of the state administration. So, there's a lot of data missing and this is unfortunately a quiet continuation of a policy that led us to a tragedy in the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72874	This replica certainly deserves an answer, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72875	I didn't get this last line, but there's probably going to be a chance that you'll be directly in somebody else's replica, so I'll answer you. So, as far as the asset assessment is concerned, it's true that the funds are secure and it's very simple, unless there's a change, it won't be necessary to place the records, but it's going to be left with these people who are working now, and then we're going to go the way it is now, and if the number of leading places is reduced, which is what it says, then part of the funds that the reduction is going to be able to put on to get rid of those panels and all that together. As for the number of employees, it has been significantly reduced in the past few years, so in the past 2 years about 200 people are smaller and this is seen by the allocations for employees in the offices of the state administration who are in the department of administration, but are not part of the Ministry of Administration, so fiscally responsible persons are head of the office, not the minister, in that part and it will certainly have a certain reduction in costs. The second cost reduction will be a natural outflow because unfortunately in the offices of the state administration work on average some older officials and the structure is such that a certain part of the people under the law will have to retire and then there will be some cuts but this has already reached the level of being replaced, that they should receive some people. As far as the second part of the inspection law is concerned, this law on the state administration system is not only about offices, because in offices it is 2700, 800 and in the state administration it is 60 thousand, therefore with public services it is another 200. Therefore, the State Administration System Act speaks of all, and these inspections are normally carried out by other state bodies not themselves. We, in a good part of these provisions of the law, regulate the existing state for which we have assessed that this is necessary by intervention in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72876	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72877	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with what I think is good in law. Introducing the possibility for citizens to obtain, seek information, obtain certificates, extracts or other documents, to take or take the prescribed forms, notices, advice and other assistance to receive or be able to obtain in one place not only within one office of the State Administration but in one office, regardless of whether it is the powers or competences of another State Administration office. This certainly goes in favour of the citizens because this bill and this establishment of the state administration's office goes in favour of citizens who, if well implemented, will not have to visit each service individually, demand, teach, take over or ask for what they need from the state, and these offices on the ground represent the state government, so what citizens need from them. How long will it take for these unique places to be formed and to start functioning not only within one office of the state administration but the five offices of the state administration to be provided, we will see. I think it would be good for a second reading to consider the possibility that this provision, which speaks of the possibility of giving such powers to the Office of State Administration to other legal persons with public authority, but it now writes if it is prescribed by a special law, is prescribed by this law. Why? If the State has given a legal person public authority by some law, it means that it has transferred some of its powers to that legal person. And now, if you would like, in special laws, that possibility and the jurisdiction of the state administration's office to service citizens on contact with those who have those powers, you should probably intervene in 15 or 20 laws. I think that this law should be the one that simply clearly and unequivocally regulates that all legal persons with public authority must be networked and connected to the offices of the state administration and that this is the place where citizens can make contact, right or resolve their obligation to the state and also to those legal persons to whom the state has transferred its public powers. I think there's enough reason for that to be regulated by this law. So this step, this newspaper, that kind of structure of the state administration's office really encourages us, goes to the citizens and what's important is that we treat each other in this way in all the restaurants. What I have doubts, and it is not well enough, is the proposal that the heads of the state administration's office be state officials. What are the reasons, the arguments that this situation has caused this proposal that the head of the state administration's office has the status of a state official? And I believe the minister will answer those dilemmas. And third vague, undefined but uncoordinated. The fact is that in the law of the administration of state administrations which are not given their names but numbers, but I already have a problem, a number or a name, however, that this law does not define the headquarters of these offices of the state administration. So the Parliament will pass the law that we have five offices of the state administration but will not decide where those seats are. For this I do not see any reason, and I do not believe that there is any reason for the Parliament to be devoid of such opportunities or to transfer its right to anyone, or to the government, to the Minister or the Ministry, and that is why it must be regulated by this law. If we go to this law to regulate the details of daily work and structural units then I believe that only the law and only the Croatian Parliament must be the one to determine the seats of these offices. Also, knowing and having certain experience with this, I think that within the establishment units of the state administration's office and their county services there must be one person as the extended hand of the head of the or the first man of the Office of State Administration, the head of the office, who will be on the ground day-to-day management of the office. I simply don't believe in the ability and the possibility that the head of Office number 3 will be on the ground every day in every part of his office without any of his captains there, let's call him that, someone who, along with his day-to-day jobs, performs the work of co-ordination, control, supervision, organization, work of individual units in the county. And now what's most important. It's interesting that this process of concentration of state authorities. In fact, Croatia has been in the process of deconcentration for a large part of the state administration and state affairs over the past 20 years. And it opened different bodies of state administration, justice, tax system, customs, pension, health insurance in a large number of cities, smaller, medium or larger and deconcentrated their services. There's now a process of concentration. A large part of the administrative units of the state service are abolished and is concentrated, and it is now quite certain, although the government and the ruling coalition do not want to publicly acknowledge it, it is going towards not only a new territorial structure of regionalisation completely clear introduction of five regions that will surely bring with them the abolition of the counties and we must not deceive people and lie that this is not the case. This is just one of the links in a series that drags both the issue of local and regional self-government to be resolved in a way that exists regions, municipalities and cities. Because if that's not the case then it's going to be about rigid deconcentration and decentralisation because regions and counties with municipalities and cities are not simply a meaningful and possible organisation. But why do I blame the government as a whole, but in view of this law, am I speaking to Minister Bauku? About every two weeks, one move comes to a new concentration. Today, let's say we discuss this concentration of state administration and see what it plans. At the same time, a fellow justice minister travels through Croatia and is a concentration of the judicial authority. The fact that we do not have a comprehensive, united joint debated concentration of the state government of course makes part of Croatia justifiably dissatisfaction with the existing units of local and regional self-government. So, according to one model, the concentration of municipal state attorneys, county, municipal courts, county courts with or without permanent service in those cities is being prepared, where so far there have been lawyers and courts. Well, then the police, or the police department. Behind that, customs and customs administration. So the tax administration will come to order as one of the important authorities of the state and the issue of their concentration or deconcentration is not only a matter of will and state how it will organise it but also the interest of citizens in which it is available, grantovnica, cadastres. Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Croatian Pension Insurance, Croatian Employment Service, Inspection Services, all part of the state government that citizens often or less often have to use and reach out to the state to achieve their right or resolve their obligation to the state. Such a segmented debate when each resort and individually comes before the Croatian Parliament makes it impossible for us to see the whole. Let's see a complete map of the government's concentration or deconcentration in all segments to understand and understand what we really want right now. Will all ministers in their structure stick to the principles that the headquarters of all offices must be in the main cities of the county, whether it will be the criterion of the largest cities, the second largest, by political agreement, by random choice. So that's a series of things that if we had a whole table we'd see more easily, we'd probably take away some fears, the dilemmas that were caused. And that is a recommendation from Mr. Minister and you, as well as the Government to slow down with the speed of this law for a second reading and to have all the resolutions come before the Parliament to see the whole. At that time, a more quality debate will probably be freed from some unwarranted fears, freed from too much emotion and local patriotism, and of course these criteria that will be set must be kept in mind that indeed the metropolis of Croatia at five centres will come up with a legitimate resistance from people in this country. It's just a deconcentration of metropolision and nothing else because if we base ourselves on just five points of resistance, five regional seats, it doesn't matter to the citizens whether it's red tape in Zagreb or in another city that's 100 or 200 km away from it. In the expectation that you will truly understand and accept that we will get the whole until the second reading and the removal of these dilemmas that I have set up, we will eventually decide on the vote in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72878	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First Reverend Davor Bozinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72879	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lesar, you've actually opened a fundamental debate here saying that this is about deconcentration, so moving state affairs to levels below the central government and you've seen it well, and the theory of it is actually going towards the centralization of regional models, and that's the essence of the story, especially when we compare it to what's been announced to be going into real decentralisation. So decentralisation with this doesn't matter, this is a process that's the opposite of decentralisation. Decentralisation can be administrative and this is about deconcentration but it must be fiscal and it must be democratic and therefore development models are created as the basis for Croatia's regional growth and growth, and ultimately our coordination with the regional models that exist in the European Union. Without it, this story actually makes no sense. The whole lacks because there is neither political will nor political courage to talk about the whole, not just the reform of the administration, but a whole series of reforms that must lead to Croatia's economic growth, and this should be the incentive to go towards reforms. I'm afraid this way with such ad hoc measures, we're actually just dealing with adjudicating reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72880	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72881	Yes, a respected colleague, so this time it is not a matter of deconcentration of the state government but of concentration and I must admit that it is quite cleverly prepared for all phases of debate because of course this model of forming a state government and its concentration on five regional units will later be just another argument that the issue of local and regional self-government will follow that same model. Because it's also normal that when you form a local and regional self-government in the most part, you follow and form a state government because otherwise you simply come into disharmony, discord and pointlessness. That is why I stressed that offering partial solutions hides the whole of the structure and organisation's intention and that offering to debate in the Assembly of the whole was an extremely high-quality step towards seeing in what direction Croatia goes not only in terms of the formation of the state government and its deconcentration because it is the predecessor of that regionalisation in terms of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72882	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72883	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, I feel that sometimes concentration is needed to avoid deconcentration. In some public administration offices, given their different size, the same is not the same office of state administration on the territory of 700,000 inhabitants or 50,000 inhabitants. Somewhere in the offices of the state administration, and I've had a chance to convince myself of that, and that's what I'm going to say in the debate, people really have nothing to do and it's true and it's true, and it's probably painful given the working legal relationship that someone loses their job, and that's true and painful, it should be admitted. In your discussion you said that this was the beginning of a territorial reform, i.e. the reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia I would say it may be, but at a small door it should be said once and for all and at a large door done because in Croatia we have 557 units of local, territorial self-government, administration, municipalities, cities, 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. Until we realize that this is no longer the way Croatia will go forward. These are solutions that are what they are in the first reading, and we need to contribute to the debate to be better, I think they're good. You're often in favour, and I support you here, for a referendum. This is precisely one of the questions where we should invite the citizens, the people of Croatia to a referendum, not about this particular law but about the territorial structure. If we're going to talk about it, and the IRS is already on the move, the pension system, the health system, HZZO, the courts, the state's attorney's office, and that's what the former government started. The only problem is in the leaders who lead certain institutions because it is normal for the Chief of Staff to protect the interests of his municipality, mayor of the city, mayor of the county, Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the State, and we must once and for all say that Croatia needs such reforms, that we all need to be together without demagogy and politicization to say that it has come... to do so, otherwise we will not be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72884	Replication response, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72885	When deciding on such things, then you can apply different criteria and have different approaches. Let's say one of the approaches can be the mere numbers on the head, on the leg, on the eye, on the hand, all sorts of things. I am the advocate that we are finally starting to apply a quality criteria in Croatia. I simply don't believe that all of Croatia's Offices of State Administration are equally good and equally bad, that there are better and weaker organized or almost unorganised these offices. That they're dealing with about 900 people, about 1200 items, that something's been waiting for 6,000 months somewhere, and in some office, it's being solved in two to three weeks. And every time you leave out the quality criteria, you punish them for applying dry figures. And that's where we lose the state administration's quality core because we've caught up with the criteria of mathematics, patterns and calculations, and dimming any quality. I just don't believe that we can't admit to ourselves what state administration offices are the best these 20 days. Rang them seven, five, eight, whatever. If I were a minister, I'd pick the best office and he said he'd be a headquarters and he'd be a father and a mother to everyone on the ground because they showed they knew. And those who don't know, they won't get it no matter what the numbers are. That and the judiciary are able to apply the criteria. And why in Croatia we have so many municipalities and cities. Citizens' resistance against metropolis. The whole of Croatia is angry at Zagreb, in every county citizens are angry at the headquarters, the town of the county headquarters. Within that city, the settlement that is the periphery is angry at the heart of that city because it has been acting, setting up, and always dragging everything towards the center, and by the question of deconcentration and even development, we will break this problem of metropolis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72886	New replica, dear Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72887	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lesar, in your discussion of the state administration's reform, you linked logically, and you compared it to territorial re-establishment, so you introduced concepts of concentration, deconcentration. And come on, logically, we can look at it so that this is the concentration process as you say. However, what I do not agree with you is that at least you interpreted that there are hidden political motives behind it, which is why it is naturally done towards the five regions in the Republic of Croatia as if the process of deconcentration was also not politically motivated. And what the minister has with his associates has a responsibility to run the ministry and of course it's being managed and that's the main difference between me, you. I think that right now mathematics, logic must be that criterion by which the structure will be put in place to make it effective. Of course, there are processes in society and the reform of this part of the administration goes in line with these processes. And I think we're gonna have a hard time stopping them. I will personally be unsatisfactory probably with, when determining the seat related to my county. But it's simple in life like that. We can't look, you said it yourself earlier in response to the replica that we can't look out of our narrow interests because simple changes are necessary. This isn't how it goes. I personally believe that every municipality in the Republic of Croatia, every city and county has completed its task over the past 20 years. But there is simply a time when we will have to think about other solutions and that time comes now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72888	The replica matches Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72889	Dear colleague, I don't believe I said political motives. Maybe you heard something wrong. It says the motives are savings and a better organisation of state administration. I accept that as a motive, but you all claim it's necessary. Who said it was necessary? Who is it when he proves to whom and says that all we do is necessary and that nothing else can happen exactly like that? Where it says so, give it to me. The state administration and the state can indeed and these are professional expressions of their services deconcentrated or concentrated. Here's the concentration process, and it'll probably bring some savings. Whether to maintain the current level of quality, be better quality and less quality. Is this the subject of discussion of our obligation or just saving? Yeah. In order to answer the question of the quality of the structure of the state government throughout the territory, then we need to see the whole, and we have a segmental. And in the end, we can pretend to be weeds next to healthy eyes, but this sends a clear message. A political decision has been made to reorganise Croatia into five regions. Point. You don't say it publicly, don't admit it, but I'll repeat it. Yes, this is an administrative political decision that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the state's complete formation process takes place in five regions and probably the citizens will not ask. But if the municipalities and the cities, their numbers stay as long as we have them more expensive, not a cheaper state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72890	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, you were reported by representatives Grubisic and Cain. They're gone. The club loses the right to debate this agenda item. On behalf of the HDSSB club will speak to the esteemed Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, Deputy Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. This has been a really interesting and busy political week in the Croatian Parliament. We started with a protest announcement, with the Labour Act, with the necessary reforms around the Labour Act, so we talked to someone in the middle of the week who he was sleeping with and why, whether he was sleeping with her. And today we are talking about the need to reform the state administration, so it's no wonder the citizens are distracted, completely confused about what this High House of Parliament is doing. I'd turn that a little bit differently, politically and reformally, we'll keep some jobs, we'll put them out of the way, and maybe we'll open up a new one. When we do this, we will have a quality Labour Act, we will have greater labour rights, and we will reduce the need for citizens on the streets to protest and to deprive for the state government, and after that it will no longer matter when everyone is satisfied and better living in Croatia who is believed and politicians who say what they think will no longer matter to anyone who sleeps with who they sleep with and why because this partner or partner, Croatia will be completely different. So we should have started a week with this, so we should have talked about the Labour Act and at the end of the week that, when we agree all this together, we should talk about who's a life partner or someone's partner. We've gone wrong, that's my suggestion. I support you, Mr. Minister, and what you have spoken, announced and what we have been talking about for months in Croatia, unfortunately political will, you have said neutrally and you have gone neutrally not because you personally have no political will, I personally appreciate your work and I think that you are a valuable and good minister, but because there are always fears in Croatia about when you suggest something who will get angry at home on the ground or who will not be angry with what political party they belong to, so our Croatia is going in the wrong direction. When the state was created, when it was defending the state, when it was the Homeland War, then it was honorable to form historically, based on the history of the county with those beautiful coat of arms of all our centers, the counties of today with a large number of municipalities, with a large number of dignitaries, with honorary municipalities because someone deserved it, and with political municipalities because someone was close to the authorities more or less, with a large number of cities, with cities that have some tradition in the depths of Croatian history, which is very nice, and then we started to reform the sex of the presidential system in parliamentary, and then we realized that parliament was not really the parliament that we should be because we don't manage the state at all, maybe we should return to a semi-president system or give power to the president who will have a firm hand because simply Croatia and Croats learned to the authors, to the rulers, and we have all of common deconcentates. We think it's all right, it's not. The parliament has no role to play, the real role of the government, the executive power, the prime minister, regardless of today, Mr Milanovic, and tomorrow someone else or someone else, it is anyway. What's important is that we've strayed, that politics is actually deconcentrated, and that citizens know very well what they want. And if we had a real referendum with some purpose, we'd spend 50 million kunas. The truth is, I think we'd save at least 50 billion in ten years, and that's the result of direct democracy. If you go out on the street today, either in Zagreb, or in Osijek, either in Rijeka or Split, Zadar, Sibenik, don't be offended now I can't list all the cities but I love Croatia as much as in Slavonia, both in Dalmatia and Istria, it doesn't matter. It's our country. They would all also say that if it didn't take so many state appliances, it doesn't take so many employees, it doesn't take so many administrations, we're sick when we get to the state offices, those waiting rooms, when the officials are nervous and they're nervous because they're deconcent, they don't know who can do what they can do anymore, whose authority, which is, which is, which is not, and I spent six months serving civil service in the office of the state administration in Osijek-Baranja County, and let no one get angry, then we worked on enrolment, those agricultural land registers, then there was work. And when I was leaving, I wanted to honor all my associates, so Mr. Head of State came and asked the gentleman who worked there for ten years when you were running out of military time, he thought it was a manual, not an employee. So there's a lot of confusion in that system. Let no one be offended, we respect everyone's will to work, to be valuable but we should finally say to Croatia with no fear of political will, reforms are needed and here is the HDSSB for the first time that we are a party whose mayor, Mr Vladimir Šišljagic, from Osijek-Baranja County, so the mayor who said that the current counties should be reconstructed. So, the mayor from our party. You know why? Because the county as such is not functioning enough to function or should because some such powers but most importantly there is no financial opportunity to invest the funds it has in investments, in new jobs because this county budget is quite specific, it cannot be rocked either to the left or to the right, and that is true. When we started constitutional changes, then there were questions about the need to introduce the region and we do not consider it just a political programme of the HDSB. It should be a political programme for all of us, if it's going to be five regions or the Office of State Administration as you suggested in this proposal, Mr. Minister, or it's going to be 7 or it's going to be 6 it's totally irrelevant now, it's important that there will be fewer of them than there are now. And unfortunately let no one be angry, mathematics is sometimes important because there is an assessment insufficient and there is an evaluation of the number excellent so one more time, 428 municipalities, 1427 cities, 20 counties and the city of Zagreb, the Republic of Croatia has 576 units of territorial administration, self-government. We are a country by population that could function with 50% less of what I have now read and citizens would live better in Croatia. And the problem of why someone gets angry and resents you is very simple. Politics is behind everything. If a HDZ mayor is a majority now, now he is, who says he will be tomorrow, it does not match that party because he will lose some original base where the local party leader is also a party leader and has the power to organise on all occasions his position was the mayor, mayor or mayor, the help of the parties in the elections, whether they local, state or European, no longer matter. There will be a lot of anger on us, there will be a lot of spit, there will be a lot of planting, but it is not important, it is important that we order the Republic of Croatia and citizens, there is a need for reform, there is a need for comprehensive change and we support you in what you have proposed, we also support the tax reform that has taken place in terms of tax administrations, judicial reform, reform of state attorneys and all that will reduce unnecessary administration, which will reduce system volatility, which will make the Republic of Croatia and its administration efficient, able, quality and ready to put into the wind in the challenges of the times in which we live, which is the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU, we realize that we have thrown billions and billions of kunas into the wind. No one gets angry, we'll just count how many official vehicles there are in the local administration, in cities, in the counties and municipalities, how many official phones we pay, how much unnecessary costs we pay, and how many million kunas in recent years. We won't insult anyone, and we don't invite anyone to investigate anyone, to set someone up, to want someone evil. No, we want good for our Croatia in a way that will be enough in the future. The comprehensive changes to which the Croatian Parliament should be involved, and we should also consider what we are doing, the Prime Minister, the Government as a whole, and the President of the Republic, the comprehensive constitutional changes in the first years of our membership in the EU, should show that we are a responsible state towards our people and that we are also a responsible country towards the EU. We need to change the governance system of Croatia, the system of units of territorial administration, the county system, we need to introduce regions, if someone is going to say that they are proposed by HDSSB, so don't be angry, let those regions be called the county, if some name of the county has grown to the heart, and history should be respected and worked alone on a course at the Faculty of Law called "The History of the Croatian State and Rights" and I know what I'm talking about, someone can be angry only for political reasons and low, and not for the real people, and it's... it's time to make and hit a hand about the table and stop talking backwards. That we are causing protests, that we are jeopardizing labour rights, so we are interested in who is sleeping with whom, and that we do not want to hit the table with our hand and tell Croatia that reforms are necessary, and we need to make our country more efficient. That's the truth. No one gets mad. By constitutional changes, we are Parliament that has lost its credibility with exactly what I am going to do, protest, work, who sleeps with then reform, the reverse should go. The Croatian Parliament, Parliament, we are a parliamentary country, if we cannot have an impact on what we are doing, if we cannot have influence on the government, and the prime minister has emerged from our government, or from our majority in the Parliament, then we are not needed. So we are a parliamentary country and Parliament must have power, not the power to be against the citizens, but the power to come out among the citizens and among the people that no one spits at us because we have a salary of 15 or 20 thousand kuna, but because we work for our citizens. I don't think anyone would mind how much someone is paying us and who's driving us, giving the Prime Minister a drive to Shkodu or Audi or Lamborghini, if the citizens are happy, if we've reduced the number of unemployed, if we have an efficient administration and if someone who comes to the Office of State doesn't stand for two hours and comes across a person who's nervous about seeing such order as if someone's there because they're glad, but because it has to be effective. Why do we need such a management? What will make the municipalities, let the municipalities, some of them that have no funds to function as volunteers, let that tradition of Croatian decentralisation in the sense of preserving those local values be and that's nice, but we had it through local communities before and through those municipalities because watch out, I'm from Bizovac, from the municipality, it's a municipality, 20 kilometers from Valpoov, there works 9 people. The municipality, Bizovačka heat, oil, works, but for every confirmation, for every single thing, you have to go to Valpovo, everything else is the same, it's just a lot, a lot more because it's such a system, so we set it up, and every time you get a little scratched on it, everybody's complaining because it's always about politics, it was politics on Wednesday when it was the Labour Act, it was politics and yesterday, it's politics today, but we do something to talk about politics a little differently than it was yesterday and yesterday, and it's responsibility for us. I suggest to you, Mr. Minister, that in this first reading, I would give my contribution to this, I will no longer be in math, you're a mathematician, you're well-proposed, I would only suggest that these office numbers, the five that you've named as full names. The HDSSB club proposes to be Slavonia Baranja, Dalmatia, the city of Zagreb, southwestern Croatia, northwestern Croatia. Is this the way to the introduction of future regions? I'm sure it is. Let the future regions be called counties, let it be 5 counties, let each county have fiscal, therefore independence, decentralised independence, let those working in their counties or regions and who pay taxes and work there, have their work, work fairly and responsibly, benefit from keeping that money from the unit where it was created, and let those rich regions in the future that are closer to the Adriatic or us closer to Slavonia help those who are hard to live in other parts of Croatia. Croatia is one country, complete and no one will divide it or divide it and no one is autonomial if it says that this system of 557 units of local administration and self-government is overworked, does not work and that it is unnecessary for Croatia, no one should be angry. After what we propose, then we should invite the citizens, the people to come to the referendum and that... the word together, are we right? If we're wrong, then we need to withdraw, then we need to say let's keep it as it is, but someone finally needs to make an analysis in the financial sense. How much did this system that works in Croatia cost us from independence to today and how much money was spent in this? Also, Mr. Minister, we need to run an analysis of how much this system... of the state administration from 20 to 5 offices is going to save money, specifically by numbers because there's mathematics that matters. And most importantly, let's give people who work there, that in some offices of the state administration people have something to do, and for those who have nothing to do, let's find another job and finally admit that reforms are so necessary and painful that a lot of people will be angry. Some government may lose the election because of this, but I am sure that in 10 years we will live in a country that is not burdened with the past, which is not burdened with protecting the interests of the Croatian people by political parties and duties. If on this basis we gain trust, then we will restore credibility to Croatian politics, the Croatian Parliament, the parliamentaryism of our country, then it will be executive, indeed executive and will answer to the Parliament, if we will be a parliamentary country or we will regain the power of the president to be... no matter who or who the president is, but that Croatia will have a person who will know what he is doing and who will protect the interests of the Croatian people. We are today invited to talk in the first step at a small door, Minister, about this. I believe that our country suffers from the cancer that we are currently treating with aspirin and we will not succeed if we are this scared, we act neutrally, and if we are offended by those who spit on us, who plant us and who lie that we are autonomists. No, we want good to our country, our people and one who cannot understand it has strayed and let them deal with partisan, Ustasha and Chetniks we will deal with Croatia in the EU and the better life of those who are today schooling and waiting for work in Croatia. That's our goal. We give you support for this law and in the first reading, and we will finally make amendments to what you have suggested about the names and names of the units of state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72892	Thank you. We've reported nine replicas, so with that one notice. The debate will now lead to 12:00 p.m. then we'll move on to the vote, when we're done with the vote, we'll continue on this agenda item until we've exhausted the list of speakers. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Davor Bozinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72893	Mr. Salapic mathematics is of course an important discipline, but I think it's wrong if we come down to mathematics because mathematics has followed these discussions for years and has not led us to some satisfactory solutions. We need to talk about principles. Europe realized decades ago that the economy cannot be stimulated from above, which is why centralisation is the reason. So we can talk about real reform of the state administration only when we start talking about real decentralisation, when we get closer not to services but rather to making decisions for citizens concerned. This means transferring political responsibility to local and regional self-government and giving them opportunities to take care of their own development. The region didn't make sense she didn't even know how many tens or thousands of people if she couldn't come up with a model of her development. I'm not saying growth, growth is just one dimension, social, economic dimension, institutional adjustment is the essence of decentralisation. Without that, we're not going anywhere. You said you needed analysis, but where are those analyses? We're faced with some ad hoc solutions, so the inspectorate is abolished, so this is abolished, it's transferred, and there's actually no comprehensive discussion of principles. The principles are those that pushed Europe forward, and that is exactly what it is to create conditions for development, and there is no development if things are centralized either on state, regional or on any other basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72894	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72895	Mr Bozinovic, you said it nicely, I really congratulate you, but were you not a representative of the Republic of Croatia in the EU in NATO bodies, whether you lived in the EU and worked for Croatia for a time. How does the EU rest, EU countries? Are the regions of Europe regions, some EU member states divided into regions? Is there an EU member state if you haven't heard me from the regional system of functioning? They do. I'm surprised you just said that. I'm in favour of decentralisation right now, but for fiscal decentralisation that by introducing regions or counties, some county called the region doesn't matter, it's important to make the system effective. And decentralisation is not only territorial by name but also in financial and tax terms that what should not go to the state register, remain in the local cash register or in the county or the region but that the system works. If we repeat ourselves, repetition is the mother of wisdom. We'll be smarter both of us. Something will happen to the party where you learn. And we have sent you to the EU as I recall you are one of the advocates of the European path of Croatian politics. If a system of regionalism works in the EU and the administration and administration are more efficient and local, then all we need to do is learn. I'll repeat, Denmark did it by 50% cut its local self-government units and succeeded. We don't need to be smarter. We just need to learn from those. Where did we go? We went from home to the EU. We have made our country the EU's member with the most difficult route from one of the last countries to join the Union, which is us, and you know it very well. And if we're just going to politically just lamentate it then it doesn't make sense then we'll know very well how it works where we think about why we're protecting this system from introducing regions. I know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72896	Now we'll hear the replica of our colleague Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, you say your club will support this law, because this law reduces the bulky state apparatus. So I'm asking you to, since the minister didn't say that to explain if you already support the law, where do you see that this law is going to reduce this massive state apparatus? For example, in the Office of State Administration one for Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Knin County, Zadar County and Dubrovnik-Neretva County so far were 4 offices now going to be 1 state office instead of 4 presidents will now be 1, but also in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Split-Dalmatia County, Zadar County remains the office of state administration which may now be called the establishment units whether to establish or something I do not know. At the head of those units, the president as he's been named so far, will be called a leader. He may have a slightly lower salary for that, I don't know, but that's why the head of the entire office is going to have something bigger because he's going to become a state official. I don't see where this law will cut down on that bulky machine. Will there be a smaller number of employees, will it cost less for Croatian citizens to arrange in terms of pay cuts in terms of efficiency, what is important to happen? Will there continue to be a state administration on Visa, will it continue to be in Vodice, Korcula, will it continue to be the same number of employees? If it's going to stay, because I don't see that it won't end, for example, in Komiža or somewhere else, manage the state administration that we're getting, except for what's now going to be called one state administration office number one. The government didn't have the courage to say that it would be called the Office of the Government of Dalmatia. So I really don't see what with this important in terms of the reduction of the depth apparatus as you called it, in terms of reorganisation, in terms of efficiency, the urgency of the state administration, in terms of financial savings, this law achieves that you would then be so supportive of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72898	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72899	Well, Mr. Bacic, where do you get the arguments to defend what's indefensible, now let's do it exactly like this. So yours would be a future region or your state administration's office... Dalmatia whether it will be called Dalmatia or, say, Dalmatia includes Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva County with 857 thousand 743 inhabitants in your area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was saying your replica was more directed to the minister because I wasn't talking about names. Whether it's the head of one or it's going to be called another, whether it's going to be the name of a job like this or what I'm talking about is functionality. Could you say responsibly as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and you were also Minister of Government that the system we now have of state administrations is functioning. If you say that it works, you have arguments to keep it that way, then let it stay. I think it doesn't work, it needs to be changed. Unfortunately, certain unnecessary jobs will be lost because they are unnecessary and some people there have nothing to do. And in some major units, say, don't make a fuss, be polite or don't answer any lines, don't make a fuss. Mr. Vice President, just be polite if you're gonna talk... If they won't shut up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72900	You go ahead. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72901	I'm begging you, I've been listening and I've been keeping my mouth shut, throwing it to somebody else, it's at the meetings of your current. So it's important to make the system functional and that should be the intention of every policy, and that's where we have to agree. If someone has the courage to go public today and say this works and it's good then the ministers go back to the government have better jobs, look for jobs, save the unemployed and talk about the hard life of the citizens. If we don't start with reform, if we forget this has nothing to do with politics alone, then we're wrong. So, these throws, the mix-ups, what do I care what they think about it, if you have arguments, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72902	Thank you. New replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, Representative Kosor, you've reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72903	Excuse me. Excuse me, colleague. Comrade Salapic, among others, mentioned that if a referendum was called on whether the state administration should be reduced to assume that most citizens would vote for it. And I agree probably that, people think, people who live as it is said in a jargon on a state manger have too much. But I remind you, and you were actually talking about what some constant of all policies and every policy, so everybody would like reforms but no one would reform themselves. Everyone would like reforms but no one would want to start reforms from him. Everyone would like to change, and I remind you, here at the last government, of the attempts, i.e. some steps in terms of the same merger of the court's seat in judicial reform, the hospital, Ergel, remember the merger of Ergel administrations in Đakov and Lipik as the storm caused, it was also about reducing those who are managing the fit, so those who are officials, i.e. getting higher salaries. So the fact and that I agree with you, we have a large number of municipalities, not only is there a large number of municipalities, cities, or counties, but they always and most often rely on the state budget. So, I've been faced often with demands from the municipalities, give us dear government to finish the road to a cemetery that's 500 meters long, to finish the morgue, one big historical city that couldn't pay off three aunts in kindergarten, so he couldn't pay his salary, so the government had to intervene. So what kind of city is that if he can't pay for three kindergarten raisers? So, you have to do I want to say clear criteria, historical and each other. Through these criteria, to push through municipalities, cities and counties and make a decision. But it's a political decision that needs courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72904	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72905	Dear Mrs. Kosor, it's a political decision and it needs courage. You've launched certain reforms in your term, and I'll mention some of them and then I'll compare that to why you're sitting in the back seat today. We remember, we worked together on this, and it's a reform of the judiciary, a system of courts, a system of state's attorneys, a law on criminal proceedings, criminal laws, and we even tried to reform local self-government, but we stopped because of the pressure of the people who were HDZ leaders back then on those units. When you started the fight against corruption, you all, some said that, don't be angry under quotes "you're not normal". When you raised issues of different relations in politics, when politics wanted to introduce humanity, when you decided who would sit here and represent the interests of the Croatian people then you were good and now they laugh at you when you talk, it's early Croatian politics, there's no humanity. In addition to political will, humanity is needed. I personally don't care who thinks anything about it but I don't need to be quiet. And those who dare to say and do things like that and know very well then better not to say anything. Because it is necessary to be honest and open to everyone, even if we no longer sit in the Croatian Parliament. Well, this isn't a holy home. The Holy Home is a family, a church that believes in it and more when we don't have a home there, we only need two meters. And he should be an honest, honest man and loyal to his country and his people. This is what we need to do, we need to break reforms, throw away what's wrong, and see how much money we've saved. Then no one would blame us for why we sit here, what we do here when we don't have a relationship with the real world. And as soon as you say something that needs to be lifted or changed right now, boo, everybody's smart right now and when you say where the arguments are for that they don't have it. But unfortunately, we have important chairs. Until it's forgotten, and until we get away from it, there's no prosperity there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72906	A new replica, the esteemed Sunhead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Salapić, I really ask you here, we may come to what we are constantly asking, and you are so lovingly supporting it, please give me a parameter that will convince us that this will mean savings and that it will be truly rationalization, that the proposed structure will actually bring a reduction of wages, we will have five new officials if I understand it well, we will have officials with new powers and in fact strengthen the role of the central state. I'll just remind you, we're already in the process of joining the courts' headquarters, police administrations, etc. and we had no valid argument for such processes nor was the specificity of the county respected. From your speech to me it is quite obvious that my Međimurje County will be abolished and that is very good for you, for me it is very bad and do not give me political criteria because unfortunately, in my county, HDZ is not in power for now. Therefore, that argument does not stand for you, and even though I am not here, I call on all MPs not to agree in this way to centralize the state. In addition, what my colleague Bozinović tried to tell you, and that is that at this point almost 90% of all finances related to the state in Croatia are in the hands of the centre. So such an example is not known to the European Union countries, it is simply not true. There's no argument for that. And finally, in what way do you think that this system of five counties as you finally called them or the region, what this is all about, is also going to mean fiscal decentralisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72908	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72909	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, we'll change the Constitution, change the laws, conduct a referendum, and we won't lift your Međimurje County. It would belong to our proposal in SZ Croatia where Međimurska, Varazdinska, Krapinsko-Zagorska, Zagrebačka, Koprivničko-Krizevačka, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County would be. They won't get lost, and that... The resident 976 491, no one will lift your county, it will be a part if it is on our proposal and it can be different, part of the Croatian, regional or Croatian counties. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] As for your debate where you said we were introducing five new officials, right, we're introducing five new ones, but we have 20 exes. We're cancelling 20, and we're introducing 5, there's already savings. ... The savings will be if you just say where of the smallest things, we won't have that number of official cars for 20 presidents anymore, there won't be cell phone costs, there won't be any costs of big salaries from 15 to 20 thousand kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's already savings, small savings but significant. And when we go into real reform with political will, I would not want to offend the citizens of your county, I love and appreciate your Međimurje County, I think we should have the courage and wisdom to tell the Croatian people and citizens that the time has come to finally implement the real structural reforms, not to drill into our backs and say we need a new one, we need a new one, we have a vision, we want to come to power, we want to win, blah blah blah, and there's nothing from that. Finally, it is necessary to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, either to give more power to the president or to return to the semi-presidential system or to give dignity and dignity to the Croatian Parliament in a way that parliament functions as parliament, with the state being a parliamentary state, and that powers be really in the hands of those who pass the laws. So don't be afraid, we'll pass a law that your Međimurje County will preserve, we'll change the Constitution that will make the state functional, and all that you said was my evil intention towards your county with great responsibility and honesty I reject because it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72910	Now we'll hear the replica of counterpart Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72911	Dear counterpart Salapic, two key words you said about me in your presentation were analysis and you mentioned one country, which is the state of Denmark, that they were doing reform in a way that reforms in Croatia would not have done anything. You said they cut the local self-government units in half. They've been preparing this for seven years, Denmark has been reforming local self-government for seven years. We haven't made a single bill as much as it costs, which is what we're going to get. We pushed our hand into a haystack, pulled one straw out and said, "Here's a rescue." It's a straw of salvation. I fully agree with you that local self-government needs to be rationalized, and I agree with the regions, but I would like some calculations, I would like to see. We're too small a country for nearly 600 units of local self-government, you count how many cities 428, municipalities, cities, 127 etc. We are a poor country for 600 units of local self-government and are now passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration, which should also be reformed, the State Administration. Did anything happen to any reform in the state of Croatia in two and a few years as far as Kukuriku coalition? It didn't happen. First of all, you should ask yourself, what you have set up, who will pay for all this, as Arsen Dedic says in his song. We steal the future from our children, our grandchildren because we're wasting what we don't have, and no one thought of it, although there was a promise that we would rationalize that it would no longer be spent. It's being spent so much, unfortunately this isn't going to bring much savings either, you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72912	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72913	I agree with you, colleague Vuksic, that this probably won't bring much savings. They will be small because this is a small procedure, and the minister explained why, due to a neutral proposal. And the neutral proposal is you know why, we understand it best because we are here in parliament, which is that the ruling Kukuriku coalition has partners, parties that are coalition partners, when you look at you go into reform, you always see who is where, in which area, from which party it comes. So first we should forget the party principle when it comes to Croatia's interests. You see how he caused the indignity. And when you say something and you say it honestly, then you think that they laugh at you, they say you're a fool, that you're a monkey, blah, blah, blah, blah, what this story is, and in fact you need to be honest. Let anyone get angry, and I'm sure you agree with me that this system that we have doesn't work, that it shouldn't be a neutral proposal, but should be clear. We're focused, we should be focused on a clear proposal. The Republic of Croatia needs reforms, we respect Croatian history and tradition. Let historically some units play their part in Croatia. We'll give them funds from either the state budget or the local budget that needs to be preserved. The national identity of every country, every nation, every national minority in Croatia should be preserved. Croatia should be preserved as such, the Croatian state of all citizens, Croats, Serbs and all national minorities. We are an EU member state and it is only my appeal as a representative in the Assembly that we live better. I don't want anything bad to any foreigner, not one in Croatia unless there's a good program. And in order for a good program to have a real head and tail, it has to have honest and honest people. If that doesn't work, then it doesn't work, then we're still neutral, then we're still distracted. Let whoever gets mad, we just need to be honest. Here we would find ourselves on a common path to saving the interest of Croatia's future. Unfortunately, it all comes down to human, low passion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72914	Follow the replica of the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72915	Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you have actually been going with the the thesis that we have a bulky system of local administration and self-government and that we need to reduce it to five regions, and you have advocated as a major argument the financial criterion, that this system is too expensive. What's my objection is that it's just not good to take a financial criterion, because if we go logically, then why the five regions. We can also eliminate those five regions, and then there'll be fewer officials and fewer cars and fewer cell phones. The problem is something else that's already been said. We don't have the principles on which we have to reorganize the state administration and we don't have the criteria to do it. On the other hand, there is one very in my opinion uncritical or dangerous use of the term. All this is about politics, because politics doesn't want to change that. Behind that stands the people who want to participate in politics, wants to decide for themselves about the development of their municipality, their city, their village. Therefore, we here need to combine the criteria to say we can introduce this financial criterion, so say those who do not have the means, which have the means, can also have their own local administration and self-government. And those who can't finance their own commissioners, the mayors or whatever they call themselves, they'll be volunteers, but don't take away their right to decide on the development of their local environments. So let us take one example of another that is resolved in Germany. They were when they determined the centers they said one city could be the administrative center, another city in the triangle of education and science. And the third is the church center. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thus, there are different criteria and principles. We don't discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72916	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72917	Thank you very much, Reverend Tudjman. You're primarily a reasonable man and I just like your debate. The arguments for this are as follows: the analysis needs to be done and that is where we all agree. Once we've analyzed the situation as we now have, we'll come to some conclusions. I have put emphasis on the financial aspect of the debate, because it is always said that money from units, counties or cities is left in the central state register. I thought of the emphasis that those funds are being made in the area of the county or the future regions if they stay in Croatia for investment, for investing in new jobs, the economy in the region or the region where one of us lives. I'm sure your late father, President Tudjman, would do very well at a crucial moment for Croatia, too, to understand whether this is a good thing that we have now or not. At least we'd do an analysis and a reasonable human conversation. I think we all need to agree in one thing that if you're in good intentions and you want good, then you need to hear all the arguments. Finally, no one guarantees that politics or any political party represented in the Croatian Parliament is quite right about everything he proposes. That's why there's democracy, parliamentaryism. Finally, on this important and sensitive issue should come up for a referendum and directly ask the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what they think about it. I said, we'll spend 50 million kuna, and maybe in 10 years we'll save 50 billion kuna, maybe not. But we need to be honest and do an analysis of whether the system we have is working, whether the efficient and operational state administration we have today, whether reducing the state offices from 20 to 5 will be more effective and better if no one is angry, no city, no city in Croatia, resident of any city. We just need to admit we are going to reform to make Croatia better. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72918	Now he will present his replica with a respected representative, Ante Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Salapic, I absolutely support you and I agree that you have your own position on the regions and that you want to regionalise Croatia and that you are very much representing it. And it's absolutely your right. However, arguments should be respected. Because look, it's not a problem for Croatia whether it's going to be in 3, 5, 7 or 12 regions. The problem is power. Our counties, if they had powers now, would have worked. Let's not underestimate those 20 mayors that they're the lame ones. They know what to do, they're professional people. But they don't have any powers, they don't have financial decentralisation. I couldn't agree with you when you say, you should now, I think you should cut 50% of the municipalities now, and now you said in your replica, so you need to run an analysis. Well, then don't go out with one like that. It should be 50% of the municipalities now. We need to run an analysis of what you said and your mayor that I respect. You say our mayor came forward first and said he needs regionalization but he also doesn't have any analysis, the only analysis he has, has a county community and she's done an analysis, ordered and received from an economic institute and that analysis is the only one I know right now. I don't know if the government has any analysis now, and it's not good when you say Mr. Salapic, it's time to punch your hand on the table and solve that thing, let's not worry about that, it's some time or some situation that shouldn't be repeated here in the Croatian Parliament and say that we need to deal with problems with the table hand. The problems need to be solved that some institutions and professions and knowledge that we have 20 years provide a subport to help, to make quality analyses, this is what you are talking about, and not to knock on the table and underestimate people down there because when someone from Osijek or Split comes to Zagreb, then he knows what to do and while in Split he does not know it. So people know that what to do, what to do, decentralisation the system and we see and that's the best way to solve the problem, not with any hands on the table and no threatening situations of anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72920	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72921	Dear Representative Sanader, your hand on the table is just a picturesque message that you need to be determined, in fact over most people who would slap their hands on the table, so this way, you have to be determined, have political will. So the arguments spoken in the Croatian Parliament should have their own counterargument in the time and space where we live. Just run an analysis in your county of income per capita, per employee of how much money it is. I agree with you that we need to run an analysis. I mentioned in the debate in Denmark, I said perhaps 50% of local self-government units should be abolished in Croatia and perhaps not. I said we should do an analysis. You were the mayor of Mr. Sanader and you well know how the current structure of the county works. Can you confirm, responsibly say that what is focused on the county budget is enough for investments and for development, there is not enough space, should be given more. We're just going through our program, through a party in Slavonia and Baranja, not to have the concentration in the city of Osijek, let it be the city of Požega, let it be Virovitica, let it be the Vukovar, let it be the Vinkovci, let it be Nashica, let it be Djakovo, Belisce, it doesn't matter, it's important that the system works and that's the intention, let no one be offended. What I was saying, I believe those who need understanding understand, which is the people, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If we do something that's good, we think it's good, we have an analysis based on something, then we'll go outside to the citizens and ask them to confirm our intention for Croatia, is that good, do you support it. I'm sure 90% and more would support it because what we have today doesn't work. If we are a young member of the EU, we don't need much philosophy here, we learn from some countries that have longer experience in such a function that it is good, that more money is being held back, that less tax burden, greater fiscal decentralisation where people live better, then we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72922	Followed by the replica of the esteemed Danesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Salapic, when I listened to your exposure and also by reading this material in a certain way, you elaborated it very nicely. I tried to imagine after the adoption and this law how it would work specifically in our county of Baranja to say so, right? And it's been hard for me, even though I support it absolutely, and certain findings are particularly likable to me in that explanation where it says so. The new state administration office model will allow for a stronger and more rational deconcentration of the state administration's affairs. I think it's okay for our citizens. However, there is one sentence in the further explanation, the bill also proposes the establishment of a single administrative post, the state administration's office in all the state administration's establishment units. This is something new to me, a unique administrative place, and I'm a little afraid because, as a rule, if the legal regulation brings something new, let the new jobs rarely be sought by new people. But if it's going to be filled out by those 20, etc. What you've elaborated then it's quite fine and I think the point is, the point is that the problem is that the machine is being reduced, that it's cheaper because as long as we're in our offices from the municipality to the Parliament to say so in the office where there's work for two employees we're keeping five at all costs, I mean with that fact until we've cleared up both in large state systems and in the state administration, I don't think there's a word about progress, and I'm particularly interested in how it's going to work in the area of our county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72924	Time's up. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72925	Dear Representative Shoja, you are the head of the Municipality of the Princes of Vinograd and you know very well how it works, you are a valuable chief and you have done a lot for your municipality, a lot of you do, I know it. But you've detected it well in this bill, but this is the first reading, so we're going to fix the final one with the best solutions. It's important and that's where we agreed, that's what I understood. Reform is necessary, you know what it's like to have a person who's busy and has nothing to do, it's a greater psychological burden, there's nothing worse for a man when he doesn't do anything, there's no vision of his life and the future. So people working at the local administration should first of all be given a job to have something to do, that is, to make this reform in the state. There will be 20 former heads of state administration's office with various rights that they had and that's not demeaning nor the President God save, let alone the mayor of some current God save, it's just a message that we should go to reform. A new competition should be called for these five places and it is necessary to select the highest quality people, whether they will be party members or not, it is no longer important. It is essential that, in one hand, these heads of state administrations are managers under allegations that even future leaders of the region that will introduce Croatia, hopefully or the county are also managers, not only politicians and capable people, and then when we go into politics, Mr. Soja, it is not important that the coalition has received power, it is important that this coalition, whether it is a large party or a small one, gives the most quality of people, and that it is not a floscule, but that it is experts who handle the area in which they are placed. I wouldn't dare be a health minister, I don't know anything about it, Minister of Culture, I don't know so much about it, but I can talk about justice, I can talk about administration, and I can talk about the need to reform the state administration, in this case, tomorrow we'll talk about regions, the day after tomorrow about municipalities, and then the cities and the best will understand us, the people will be more satisfied and Croatia will be a better state, that is the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72926	The last replica, the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Salapić, I have well followed your presentation and writing down all of what you have said, about decentralisation, decentralisation, a large number of municipalities and counties, there would be no time to explain some things that I think you are wrong about, but from economical, especially for demographic reasons when you look at these municipalities in the Republic, from... let's say up to Vukovar, each of them has its own reason for being. However, you spoke of fiscal decentralisation, but to do so should talk about functional decentralisation and only then fiscal decentralisation. Is it necessary, in your opinion, that the offices of the state administration do not operate the county? They can do it, after all, and I am telling you, and also here to present Minister Bauku, we have this example in the city of Zagreb. Why could this example of the city of Zagreb not apply to all of Croatia? Why not? You now have local self-government and county units in one place in Zagreb, so it can be done in other counties. Why don't we just go with that model? What's the state's interest in keeping it, say, in state administration offices? And I'm sure the vast majority of citizens don't even know what jobs are being done in the offices of the state administration. And in the end, you will see that this division of regions will also cause major disputes in local self-government and county units and with the reason that Professor Tudjman spoke to you, and if you respect the European Charter in local self-government and the principle of subsidiarity, it has its logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72928	And this replica is answered by the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72929	Mr Babic, it will not be extinguished... decentralisation, however, we are just pushing for it and I see that you have not, or perhaps not had the opportunity, and one of the parts of the programme that we have exposed when discussing constitutional changes related to... and the introduction of regions into the Constitution was, among other things, the first to implement fiscal decentralisation towards units of local and regional self-government and to ensure at least 30% of tax revenues to future regions, while taking over certain powers and obligations, transform state offices by county by taking over all their responsibilities by regional regional regional self-government. That's exactly what you were talking about. So transform state offices by county by taking over all their responsibilities by regional regional self-government, etc., etc. I don't want to read. That's exactly the point. If I said fiscal decentralisation, I support and functional, we're on our way. So most importantly, Mr Babic, and all we need to talk about here is whether we are going to make Croatia a better country for our citizens' lives. It does not matter which party it is, it is important that politics is honest with its citizens. Imagine me coming home, I'm going to Bizovac, I'm going home or I'm going to Osijek, it won't be nice for my chief to say this, but he'll understand because he's a reasonable man that it's necessary, necessary. The one who is in Valpo, and in Belišt, and in Petrinja, and Nasice, and in Djakov, will understand it, if it will be better. Let this one or the next 5 or 7 leaders of the region or the future county that will be the right hand to the prime minister and the Prime Minister or the State, and those 5 heads are smarter than 1, let them have 50 thousand kuna a month, and make it effective, let the people benefit from it. No one's gonna be mad. Let them be managers, not politicians. We created a state poisoned by politics and we belong here, we well know how it works,...you, there I was, how the system works. It's not an insult to anyone, we just need to change the way we think, it's gonna be okay. Let's be honest with the people, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72930	Thank you. The word has now been made by the Minister of Administration, the Honorable Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the world has started with this government, nor will it end with it. What was good in previous periods should be mentioned, so when we talked about the analyses, on page 3 of the arguments, that is, on page 3 of this law, the final report of the functional review in the 5 offices of the state administration conducted by the Institute of International Relations during 2008 in the framework of the Public Administration Reform Project, states the possibility and variants of the future development of the state administration's office and is listed as one of the variants of strengthening the state administration's office in the county. According to the report, the current situation marks a number of irregularities in doing business, now part of these transactions are done through the Office of State Administration, part through very numerous regional units of different central bodies, part through legal entities with the public authority of local and regional self-government units. Where a large part of the transactions, as well as in other parts, are carried out by either first-degree general government or local self-government and administration units in their own division, they shall be carried out within the scope of the regional units of the various state administrations. Itd., etc. So the analysis was carried out and this is definitely the first step. What Mr. Babic said, and probably someone else will say, is a matter of business being done. So, are any of these, can some of the jobs that are now being done by the state authorities be transferred to the county or to cities or municipalities? That's a good question and it's decentralisation. What, what? ... Well, yes, but it's always a matter of authority which is part of the local self-government, which is part of the state administration. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what Mr. Babic just said. What has caused and is always causing special attention is the issue of territorial reconstruction. I believe that the issue of territorial reconstruction is not, in no party there is a unique position, so there are people in all parties who would retain the current county structure and those who would introduce regions as larger counties, so with a smaller number of units of local, regional self-government. As far as municipalities and cities are concerned, I don't think we should reveal hot water. We have a system with 550 municipalities and cities that has been since '93 and we have a system with 100 and some municipalities that were until 1993. To be precise about the island of Brac can function as one municipality or as eight municipalities, as three municipalities cannot function. My colleague Bacic will probably agree with Korčula, so if we put Lumbarda and Korčula together, they would not be satisfied with each other, if they combined Blato and Smokvica would not be satisfied with each other, they would have a smaller number of municipalities that would function worse. So it's not just a reduction in the number of units of local self-government, it's a new system. If 100 municipalities were to be abolished, they would come to a system that was '93 between 1993 and 2006, 2007, which formed 100 new municipalities in 2008. So this story is always good to talk about. As far as neutrality or seats are concerned, which are also mentioned, so I said the next sentence. I don't mind the state administration's headquarters being in the largest cities and applying that principle to all offices. And secondly, I don't mind, and that's what Agent Tudjman said, that in one region or county or territorial area as one institution is proposed, one institution has its headquarters in one city, the other in another. Of course, the largest number of institutions would have headquarters in the largest city, and one part of the institutions would not. And I don't think the biggest city would lose anything because it would still be the biggest one, and in order for these other cities, the other centers to get one kind of recognition that they're centers and I don't see the reason why there's exactly that there's too much passion and that's why I've made that statement. As far as territorial reconstruction is concerned, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has put out of force an amendment to the law by which the settlement Prekrišivičko was transferred from one municipality to another or from one city to another because no citizens were questioned. These things should certainly be asked to the citizens. I'm going to use an expression that was more popular yesterday, and it's coming out so when someone asks me what I think about it, I said that as a citizen, if it were a referendum to get the four southern counties to join in one whatever it was called that I would vote for, and of course I respect if most of them were against or if in some area the vast majority were against it and we're going to argue again in 20 years, but then it's a good point to end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72932	The debate is now continuing through replicas. The first one came from the esteemed Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72933	Thank you. Well, here's whether it's good or not, I don't know about the others, but I'll say for us minorities it's not good. I know that the minister, as the mathematician has already said, I don't know if he was counting, but let's say that if I were to compare here, I only calculated some things, say, the office of the state administration number 1 that would be run by the Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Knin County, Zadar, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska so the total number of members of all national minorities would, for example, be 11.5% for the Sibenik-Knin County or for Zadar 6.5% if this were accounted for by the Office of State Administration No. 1 it would be that the total number of members of national minorities would be 4.5%. Therefore, the number of proportional representations or employment would be reduced. That's the question, you'll certainly think about it this is the first reading, so you probably haven't thought about it before, but up to a reduced number of members of the national minorities. And this is a question not only for the Club of National Minorities, because let's say we can speak for the Istrian County, which then drowns in Primorje-goranska, Ličko-Senjska and there is a growing number based on 558 thousand 585 of the total population of 72 thousand members of national minorities, which is 13% and more members of national minorities, let's say, in Istria County. It's a big problem for us, and the question is if this or not is arranged differently, but given that other reforms have started, I think this will have to be resolved by a comprehensive procedure. Otherwise, it will even question the support of such laws and reforms from members of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72934	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72935	So I think this is a lesson from the 7th grade school. If, and it's approximately like this, 2% of 100 is equal to 1% of 200, which means if the base is larger and the same percentage is smaller in the proportional part as the base is larger and the percentage is smaller. Which means when you said instead of 40 employees of national minorities in one office 6 employees in the second, 7 in the third and 2 in the fourth should be 55 in one large. 55 equals 40+7+6+2 so it doesn't make any difference either mathematically or logically. It does not decrease the number, so the percentage decreases if the base increases. That's six, maybe it's not sixth grade, so there's no worry about it. However, I think the possibility is increasing because it expands the area from which minority members can compete in a large office. But here's what if I get it right, the rest we can do with paper, pencil and calculator then try again a little bit more detail. We'll also think about getting rid of that dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72936	It was nice to hear a math lesson. Now we'll see how handsome it will be to hear the replica of the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72937	Dear Ministers, I know about the analysis of the Institute of International Relations, but it referred to the integrity of the modelling offer. And it ruled out the possibility of manipulations that happen in Croatia these days when a segmental model is tried. The judiciary, the County Court of Varazdin, the permanent service of Chakovec, three judges, condition for permanent service. One now leaves for retirement and says your fellow minister, because you no longer have three judges, we lift the permanent service of the County Court in Čakovec. He won't hire a new judge. And by accepting a permanent service model, the Međimurians agreed to such a reconstruction and were later played, they are played. Your colleague, the Labour Minister, has introduced five regional office of labour inspection. The only county that doesn't have an inspector's service on its territory is Međimurje. Manipulation and fraud were made because a different promise was made. These are the reasons for insisting on the integrity of the model. I agree with you that everything doesn't have to be in the largest city or city of county headquarters, but what I expect from you ministers, please give a resolution agreement on what part to quote you, which part not. And then, which part of the state's administration in the biggest city, the headquarters, which they don't. It's the government's mission not just you as a minister. And finally, the messages to all those who have declared here today that they will make and implement constitutional changes and reorganise Croatia into five regions. Do it if you have enough votes, no one in this assembly can count on our votes in that model.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72938	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72939	Yeah, so I mostly agree with what you said if it was a condition to support it to be a permanent service and then change it, it's not good, it shouldn't happen, I don't know exactly detail and I believe there's some reason, the possibility of what's agreed and carried out. As regards the formation of state institutions, therefore it has not started since 2012, courts, for example administrative courts were set up long ago by regional principle, commercial courts also, there was a debate in the Assembly, for example, over the abolition of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik, and even representatives of the HDZ from Dubrovnik voted in favour of the amendment that it did not end as such, so it did not pass. It was a matter of abolishing or joining courts, and there were also a lot of debates from a patriotic point of view. The fact is that the State Inspectorate that you mentioned was also organised in its regional facilities, so it included several counties. Now that's the case with the tax administration, that's the case with some bodies of other institutions that include more counties. What's different from the state administration's office is that they're independent bodies and they're nobody's outposts and that's exactly why it's the law they're covering and that's why the debate is in the House. Therefore, Parliament is the place to discuss this because besides this party he is representative by territorial composition and I believe that we will hear the best arguments why we do something, why not. So far, the debate is running as I expected, so I believe that until the second reading and the basis of the debate, we will find the best solutions that will cause the least dissatisfaction when I can't formulate with which everyone will be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72940	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72941	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this debate shows both understanding and misunderstanding, and even in the context of who wants to turn out constructive in all of this. I think your approach here is open and I'm telling you it's not good. First, he's too mathematical and secondly he's not really comprehensive. You can't go into ad hoc reform. This was also about Europe's region. Europe's region rests not on the number of inhabitants but on the region's development concept. How many will depend on their capacity to become European, if you want to be globally competitive. The solution to that is decentralisation. There's no other solution. No one made it up. All the analysis, you're talking about one analysis. All of the Minister's analyses indicate that we need to go into decentralisation and that means administrative, fiscal, functional and all of this at once because one without the other doesn't make sense. This administrative decentralisation or deconcentration doesn't make sense without these others. Denmark had one model, a public debate was held after the analysis. Austria has a completely different meaning that Europe, the European Union, does not have a universal model but we need to talk about it. And we here, there's a lot of politics, politicizing, and we're not really dealing with the essence. Because then it wouldn't happen to you to go to the repolitanization of the state administration with these solutions because you're raising another level of political appointments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72942	Thank you. Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72943	Thank you. So this is a mathematical approach that I don't consider critical, I think it's positive. As far as comprehensiveness is concerned, and I have pointed out several times that the reforms in this direction did not begin in 2011 and 2012 respectively. So as far as comprehensiveness is concerned, I pointed out several times that the reforms in this direction did not begin in 2012 with the coming of the Kukuriku coalition to power, they began before, so also during the HDZ government. They were also not comprehensive, Mr Salapic spoke of it, but they included part by part of the system that needed to be adapted amongst others and because of the European Union's demands, and certainly this will not be the last step in this. What I said at the beginning, does this mean territorial reconstruction, maybe yes, and maybe not. However, this is another story about territorial reconstruction because administrative courts, commercial courts, Pensions Institute, State Inspectorate, the Health Institute are organized during this or that period so that their facilities cover more counties and the counties remain. Which is logical, if it includes more counties then it's more so it's normal that the rest will these 5 areas that we have marked as the territorial jurisdiction of the office plus 6 City of Zagreb because the City of Zagreb is for some reason isolated from this system, so whether it will be those 6 I think won't be exactly like this. If there's ever one, I think there's going to be more than six and less than 21 now, but that debate needs to be opened. I don't mind, and I've said it several times, and I'm going to mention some statements by HDZ members about it by the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72944	Follow the replica of the respected Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72945	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Minister, I prefer that we do not need a universal model, we need to see more universal models as resolved in the Member States of the European Union, choose Croatia from all of these best and most functional. We need a functional model, not a universal model. When I mentioned Denmark, Denmark did so, which was an emphasis on reforms, the necessity of reform and the necessity of real political will. So let's say that you agree with me that we should discuss and discuss in the Croatian Parliament after this Law on the System of State Administration and fiscal decentralisation, transforming state administration offices in the future and putting some functions in county, regional or as they are already called in the Croatian administration, but it is important to make the system functional. When I was talking about regions or future counties, it was just about defocusing power in one center, in real decentralisation. If Zagreb is the richest and Slavonia is poor and Dalmatia, other parts of Croatia, Dubrovnik, Istria, Međimurje, Bjelovar, then we have done nothing. So do you agree that we need to talk about the Regional Harmony Fund where we could help the rich ones in terms of investment? For example, in Slavonia we have tourist potentials, it is not only Dalmatia, we have tourism and that ethnic tourism that is not used enough in Croatia. Why wouldn't Zagreb or the future region help that part of Croatia succeed? Tourists will come, foreigners, members, citizens of the European Union will come and spend their money in Croatia. Let's make the country functional. I stand for a functional model, not a universal one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72946	Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72947	I don't know if you've consciously or unconsciously quoted the Kukuriku coalition programme on functional, fiscal and administrative decentralisation. So what you said is the programme with which the Kukuriku coalition went to the polls, is in the government's programme and not agreeing to talk but to encourage and I will encourage further discussion. That's what I said about the pay phone. Should some of the powers that are now state-owned, let's say, be given to districts-region, as they are already called, or perhaps even to municipalities and cities. What I can think of in the coastal part of Croatia is that at least the beaches with the county should be managed by municipalities and cities. It comes to me right away and there's probably another part that's... As far as the state administration offices themselves are concerned, I would probably be resented by officials if I were to silence the fact that these institutions, institutions with the lowest average salary in the entire state administration, and also that it is relatively difficult to get people to work in the offices of the state administration because several meters, tens of meters or hundreds of meters of them are officers of regional self-government units who generally have a slightly higher salary for a similar job. Thus, this transfer of competence would also bring additional savings. Therefore, not to discuss it, I think it is necessary to discuss it, and that is why we talk and encourage the conversation further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72948	Next is Branko Vuksic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72949	Dear Minister, you said it wasn't a solution to abolishing the municipalities, the solution is in the new system. That was your line. I fully agree with you. No one can say now 50% of the municipalities will be abolished, and then we solved the problem if we haven't established a new system, but even if we haven't done a detailed analysis before. What we get with 250 municipalities, which we get with 50, which the municipalities stay, which the municipalities don't stay. Another sentence of yours has been said, citizens should be asked. I think it's one of the greatest delusions and flossules, we should offer citizens solutions and they will choose a solution, not in terms of asking citizens. And what those solutions mean is the different models they bring to the citizens because you're aware, more aware than we are, that soon there won't be any pay. After all, he struggles day by day to maintain the system, but nothing seems to improve the system, just as you said to establish a new system, to make it as efficient and as cheap as possible, not ignoring the specificities of certain parts of Croatia, counties, cities etc., quite certainly. It's hard to reconcile everything together. It's hard, you used to talk about local patriotism. It is difficult for some municipalities that it is impossible to be more inefficient in Brač if you connect 3 municipalities or it will be more effective if only one of them is. Therefore, if we go now, not the other government but the government behind will be able to conduct this after all the analysis. It is a very complex process and very painful which needs a lot of analysis and a lot of education of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they themselves will not be able to choose if they are not offered what to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72950	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72951	I agree with 90% of what you said, and in fact, this 10% is a sentence if we go now. It's fair to say that the former government went into it, they went into analysis. So we've also seen certain suggestions. So it's nothing to talk about since yesterday or the day before yesterday. I'm actually going to read a statement on 16 April 2010. The vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vladimir Seks, in Split on 16 November, I will quote. Vladimir Seks spoke about the new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, and confirmed that instead of the county, the region should be introduced, and that change says as well as the optimal reorganisation of public services cannot be implemented without intervention in the Constitution. He also referred to the importance of the analysis of the index of urban development, municipalities and counties, and concluded that all state bodies and all political parties must cooperate, be solidarity and show unity in this demanding task which we have previously entered into the European Union. Although we have already joined the EU, it was not a condition for EU accession. But what I'm saying is that analysis is constantly done, that they exist. We get on them in one piece and we refer and we want this job done. What to say and to be honest is that there are objective and subjective difficulties in implementing it. The objective difficulties depend on whether or not we can do it. No state has done so without a political consensus, that is to say, and subjective difficulties are, do we want to do so. And as I said in all parties there are those who want to do it and there are those who don't want to do it. The only question is whether those who want to spend their lives in all parties will fight for their ideas or if they will fight it in such a way that they do not object and that in the narrow interest of the party. But it's an eternal question in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72952	Followed by a replica of the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I think we agree that this is not a key reform move in the reorganisation of the state administration and that we agree that there is no reform of the state administration without reform of local self-government. It is not possible to change and re-establish the state administration without having no effect on the work of local self-government as it has been depreciated or grouped. Therefore, it is hard for us to talk about individual government moves like this and consider it some reform moves, reform steps. For me, these amendments to the law are also about amending the law in the state administration system, and when it comes to reforming or reorganisation of tax administrations, customs administrations, pension fund, health fund, it comes down to cosmetics. As a rule, it comes down to the replacement of records, the replacement of memos, the replacement of stamps and these significant changes in competences, the detour of the business of these new design units, there is neither in this law nor in this of yours. I would be interested in feedback as to how much more efficient and cheaper the Tax Administration or Customs Administration is when instead of 21 Customs Administration participates in not knowing about 20 or Tax Administrations etc. And then this proposal of yours to subscribe instead of 20 to the Five Offices of State Administration. So that feedback whether we were more efficient, more efficient, cheaper interests me. Thus, it is not possible to reform the state administration with ad hoc moves without seeing the entire structure of Croatia, both when it comes to the state administration and when it comes to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72954	Time. The answer to the replica of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72955	I also agree most of what you said. So much greater reform will be a reform of local self-government. Until this happens, we can fix what we have now, and what is based on the analyses that were made before. It's not exactly true that this is just a switchboard, although the most discussion is about it. For example, in the case of a single administrative post, which is one of the amendments to this law, that is, in Article 59f. and 59 years. This is a continuation of what has already been regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act, and we are now putting this into the system of state administration and putting these administrative places in the right places. So that's another step of something that was done before. As for the organisation of the business, it will be easier to organise a job because of a huge difference in the size of individual offices and in their capacities. And so far, for certain specific areas, larger offices have helped smaller ones. Now they won't need help because they'll all be in the same office. And in another replica, I think you asked Mr. Salapic for a reduction in number, etc. So because of its personnel structure something on average of the senior staff in the last two years, the number of officials in the state administration's offices has fallen by about 8%, not because of the reform, so it means that the costs have been reducing themselves and there is still room for reduction but at some point it will no longer be possible. But this will allow us to have less joint services, less these general, less logistics, and it will bring more savings and this goes to its natural time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72956	Now we'll hear the replica of our esteemed colleague, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it's a good point to mention that nothing began with this government coming in 2008 and the criteria that the government had been doing on this particular trail, and I think, of course, it should continue. Now, as much as there will be political will and wisdom, I agree with you. If there's something we should try to reach an agreement on, then that's exactly what this is. Because I remember that's why I'm saying that politics mostly always ultimately decides, so it also decided, in 96th, 97th, almost real battles of political here in Parliament to separate some parts of society, join others, etc. I agree with my colleague Salapic that this should be fully open and honest. We are not always ready for this because surely we all know that there are even cities that have gotten these statuses and that, in fact, by little criteria, they meet what I am city should be and how it should work. So I think that the most important thing is to continue to do these criteria, I repeat through criteria that are historical and fiscal and each other when we get to some kind of consensus, first of all everything that is today in the status of the municipalities, for example, or the status of the city, and see who has been in the past five or ten years, in which way, with all the incomes that he had to make when we talk about incomes, is how he leans on the state, as much as anyone has asked for, for example. the intervention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assist the funds if no different from the budget reserve. And I think that we could easily get to one choice, these can stay, these can't because I agree with you, make a decision that we will, for example. The number of municipalities to reduce to a table or cities to 50 or 20 or counties at this point, let's say to 5 or 7, nothing in particular would apply, change in that sense or lead to the goal that we all believe we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72958	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72959	Thank you. So, at one point in this debate with purely professional and organisational issues, we're going to come to purely political issues and it's just a question of how much each of us, is going to be called to the sirens from some, and I'm going to, I think it's now said populist but maybe the local patriotic reasons are starting to advocate something that I don't even believe in, but here I think it's nicer for his voters to hear. And I will repeat in all parties therefore there are people who believe that this territorial structure should be changed and those who consider it not to be bad and also in HDZ. I read Mr. Shex's statement in 2010 that I know something within party relations wouldn't want it to turn out now that the change in party leadership has changed my mind, so I'm going to read another opinion. So the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government of the HDZ Mrs. Josipa Rimac, interview on the evening list 9.9.2012. Question, what are your ambitions? I see myself in Knin, and if it's going to be the third mayoral term, it's early to speak. In the meantime, she won so well. If you weren't the mayor, what would you like to do? I would be most fortunate to be the head of a city department and to be able to solve specific problems like today and help people. I absolutely don't see myself as a mayor or a mayor. They're like employees of the FINA, they're just transferring money. You'd like to cancel the county? Yeah. I would create regions because the counties are the biggest consumers. It's a finished quote. So here, when we hear that this proposal for a region is a continuation of the great Serbian policy of the Sanu memo, then we have to ask ourselves, who is in this joint venture I'm all involved in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72960	Thank you, too. The last replica of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72961	Thank you very much, President. Well, Mr. Minister, through the justification of the reforms you mentioned, and I think that your position is clear, so don't mind if the seats aren't in the largest cities. You also mentioned local patriotism which is of course natural especially for us who come from the county headquarters. Namely, the tendency, the trend so far, was not good, and that was that the seats of all public functions were somewhere in the largest cities. Namely, it would be good if every city in particular was given a city center of the county to some regional centre as far as public functions are concerned. In this way, it might actually prevent competence between the cities of the county headquarters and perhaps it is a key issue when we talk about regionalism, so there would be no opposite of that of Split, i.e. all the opposite of Split, it concerns Dubrovnik and Zadar and Sibenik, for example. when we speak in that region of Dalmatia. In fact, when we look at the chain, it's as strong as its weakest link. That's why we should be working on the fact that cities aren't rivals. Here's a suggestion that maybe even if the county seats do, they get some kind of seats, regional seats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72962	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72963	Thank you. Since I am not from Split, either Dubrovnik or Sibenik or Zadar, I don't care where the seat is and as far as the area is concerned, it is very clear, where you see Hajduk's graphite there is Dalmatia, so there are no problems about it. What I'm saying is, as some have been glad that yesterday's debate was tolerated or that I should be more precise and much more tolerant than some expected, I'm so glad that this debate is also devoid of local and patriotic and other issues, and I believe that it will remain that way until the end of this debate. So, it's good that this is open, honest and neutral, it's my expression, we're talking about and because this proposal in the first reading is like this. So Office of State Administration 1, Office of State Administration 2, 3, 4, 5 and Zagreb as special. Will this at some point turn into specific names for which we all recognize or remain neutral? That's one question. Will the law indicate the seats? I think you should do another reading. So, I think you should, you know, decide the parliament, not the government. Although it doesn't say anywhere in the law where the ministry's headquarters are, and that's settled in the internal order, the minister is theoretically deciding, but it doesn't matter. So it's good to discuss it this way, and I believe that the procedure referred to a different proposal, a different formulated proposal to be welcomed on the knife at least from some parts of Croatia, and this is how these reactions were a little more neutral, and in this sense I can see that at this point we've hit, and then we'll have to make a decision once, but if we're already making a fight about it, we'd better fight at the end than all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72964	Thank you. Until a moment of voting, we still have time to hear the position of the CNS and the esteemed colleague Joza Rados. I am asking you colleagues and colleagues to listen in silence and concentrate on this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72965	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's after intense thinking I reluctantly agree with the Minister that the world doesn't begin with this government or end with it. But I'm gonna use that to say that some jobs should be started, and some jobs should be done. What we're talking about today, the content, so the agenda points should be the end of one job, the beginning of one job, relatively small changes in the administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia on the trail and in line with all that we've had to do in recent months and what is actually still done as is the new structure of the tax administration, social care, health care, inspection, courts, etc. It's all actually jobs that aren't big and we're not big today, but of course they're not small and in these jobs it's not really a crucial savings, even if there is one and it's not irrelevant and it's sometimes talked about here, it's important to achieve the functionality of these state services that should be in the function of the citizens, and of course every kuna that is being saved, and in this time it's certainly welcome. We have opened a debate on a job that is very important, which is strategic, which is the new regional division of the Republic of Croatia and the possible decentralisation of a country that has no direct connection with this business. It can be brought into a relationship, indirectly, can be brought into a political relationship, but really, contentally, functionally, these two jobs actually have nothing to do with it. And of course I don't want to express myself negatively about the debate that is being held here on a topic that is not the subject of this bill, which is decentralisation, regional division, and I don't think that crawling decentralisation is a bad thing. It's really bad when it's bad, if it's good, it's not bad to go and crawl, we're all of us, most of us are actually successful in the final score starting to crawl, so it's not bad that even decentralisation can't go any other way crawling. Although this is not the beginning of decentralisation, I hope that this is the opening of the topic, opening and building our readiness to face this great topic of Croatian policy, but it is not yet clear from afar and the opening of this topic, the state administration and its deconcentration, absolutely no guarantee that we are headed towards the path of decentralisation. I want to confess to Mr. Minister because this debate is going on like this, but Friday is probably part of the reason. As I would like to add to it the recognition for a relatively good course of yesterday's debate in which many important issues and tensions exist in Croatian society have again faced, this is largely because it, not only with its own style, but also with a good preparation of one and other topics, has actually made one normal debate possible. As far as the concrete content of this law is concerned, this law adopts, I hope, a greater and better functionality of providing services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is the purpose of every administration and every change and every reform is the purpose of better providing services, because there will also be a reduction of management functions, which is about 30 informal officials less, which is not small. Here there was a heated debate about only two or only one new official, but this is still about a reduction of about 30 executives and more if joint services will also be at the level of new state offices, then it is 45 some leading places, which is not in itself a little bit. But it's much more important than any of these reforms, perhaps by excluding health care that better work should be done, better work, better supervision, better education, better management of this process, and this concentration at regional level makes it possible, and at the state level, it's a deconcentration and the greatest form of central government influence when you have a lot of small units that don't have enough power, and that central government has the greatest role to play. Here de facto strengthening the power of the state offices even if it is central government, the government in a narrow sense loses its power and influence in some way and it is a small shift in this regard of deconcentration. I also welcome what is said here about the possibility of deploying objects within the new state administration offices which will then enable the even burden of individual offices and what is ultimately again most important, which is faster to resolve cases for citizens, but of course the allocation of cases as well as in the case of reform or new formation of courts' territorial division of courts should always be very careful with the fact that the determination and deployment of cases is not at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course functionality is important, speed is important but we must not, we must be very careful when we talk about not bringing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in terms of what the state needs to give them a worse situation in which it is today. There are several actually very topics of this law that do not concern basic changes, which is to enable joint adoption of implementing rules which is always a problem in Croatia. Each coordination is problematic in this country and this is a question that, of course, this law will not solve if it paves the way for it as well as some other minor changes to this law. Thus, this law is so important that it certainly needs to be supported. He probably won't bring any revolutionary changes. But now I'm going to go back to that question because the question is open, so I'm going to say something about it. Decentralisation and regional division of the Republic of Croatia is a strategic goal of the state and few will oppose the view that the regional administration in the Republic of Croatia is self-government that it is fragmented. And it's no longer a constitutional provision, but at the time of the adoption of the Law on the Construction of Countys, the Constitution said that they are the expression of historical, geographical, economic and traffic reasons and objectives, they are definitely not. They are an obstacle to the development of the economy, to formulating a common regional economic policy, that is definitely it. And today they are in some way in a troubled relationship as far as the Constitution is concerned, because the Constitution no longer speaks of it, but it says that division into units not only regional but local self-government must be such as to enable their effectiveness. The question is, is that the case? In addition, decentralisation at local level is mentioned very casually, the number of units of local self-government that is somewhere in the European processes, which is part of the Croatian tradition of the last 100 years and which is an expression of the confirmation of the principle of subsidiarity as an important principle of the participation of citizens and the influence of citizens on those issues on which their life depends, and in our case, it is said that there are 100 too many, that there are 300 too many, and then as an argument for reducing and eliminating them are cited financial reasons which are just funny. If you're going to cancel 100 with a million kuna budget, you've saved only formally 100 million kunas, but those jobs are going to be done by someone else. So all these questions are talked about on a flat-rate basis. And the only way we can solve the issue of regional structure and decentralisation at local level, of course and regionally before that, is to face the problem completely clearly and not to start this business from the point of view of small, small daily political interests, so we give concessions to this, we give concessions to that and that is why we are in this situation. Let's remember how we shared the status of cities here, how we shared the status of municipalities, the criteria were very illegible, non-transparent, all of it was buying some kind of petty purchase of political points, middle points or parties, and we won't be able to do that big job if we behave like that. The government of the Republic of Croatia not only this, but every government of the Republic of Croatia has fewer and fewer allies. Everyone is in a developed democratic society in some of their positions. They have some interests, some of them are not even called to responsibility because they have the right to irresponsibility, and if there is no understanding of the problem and the willingness to solve this issue jointly to any government or future government, it will certainly be harder to resolve this issue. And these may be governmental demands and governments under such circumstances, actually working without anyone's support, will be difficult and difficult to achieve. And I, Mr. Minister and Mr. Vice President, will now conclude this debate by pleading that the debate on the regional division of the Republic of Croatia and on real centralisation, there is no fiscal centralisation or functional decentralisation, there is only decentralisation it involves all that these issues are discussed with full responsibility and full respect because it is a very complicated but equally very important job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72966	Thank you. We have several replicas reported to this exhibit, but we'll hear them after the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72967	We return to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration in First Reading. Now it's the Honorable Representative's turn. And there's a replica? [[No, no. There's a replica.]] There's a replica left. Who's in favor of the replica? Davor Bozinović, replica. He's gone. He's losing his right. Martina Dalic, replica. She's gone, she's losing her right. Sima Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72968	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I was asked to replicate my colleagues, Radosha, because he mentioned when it comes to the seat of judicial authorities, municipal, county courts, the lawyers should be very careful. Of course it did, because it's about Brod-Posavia County. I will use that word used in my transfer and sometimes Mladen Delić and told people whether it is possible in the last 7, 8 years from Brod-Posavina County they moved the way of Osijek, I am sorry that there is no colleague here at Slavonski Brod headquarters in Osijek, Croatian Water Osijek, Croatian Railway to Vinkovce, customs to Osijek, HEP to Osijek, T-Com to Osijek, removal of mail in the fields I don't know how much, commercial court in Osijek, HTV correspondence shut down and in Slavonski Brod in Slavonski Brod and in Novi Gradiška, see Sanitary inspection, Veterinary inspection, one moved to Vinkovce, one in Požeg, and the Slavonski Brod has 182 km of borders with the Federation of BIH, with the Republic of Serbia, Zagrebačka bank, PBZ in Zagreb, Osijek, the Agency for the City of Agriculture, etc. And now, in the end without any argument, the Municipal Court of Slavonski Brod should move with its headquarters in the town of Požeg and the Office of State Administration do not yet know, decentralisation that but not to the harm and always to the detriment of the citizens of Brod-Posavina County. We must, that's what those who understand raise their voice against it, raise their voices but only by arguments. These were not arguments mainly when it came to judicial authorities, the municipal court and the municipal attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72969	Thank you, too. Answer me, Comrade Radosh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72970	The fact that we have before us and with regard to the state administration and in particular with regard to other issues and the biggest question will actually be the issue of regional division and decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia is a very large issue, I am pleased that you have raised the question of the environment from which you come and the voters you have been responsible and who have chosen you. In his presentation, the minister said that if the head office of one institution is at the centre of this group of counties where the state administration office will be, then it is certainly possible to deploy some other state administration bodies in other counties in order to satisfy the functionality of governance but also to satisfy both interests, wishes and sentiments of citizens of today's county headquarters, including some other major cities in the Republic of Croatia. I am certainly an open representative for the debate you have opened but of course we will be able to discuss specific issues when they are proposed and I hope to be reasoned here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72971	Thank you. And the last replica of Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Radoš, you say you will support this law, among other things, because this structure of the government body will contribute to better, better quality work. I would be interested in what part of these amendments and the addition of the laws you find that citizens who have so far been able to do jobs and whose demands could have been settled in a given space, given that in this structure such facilities do not change anything, for example, I do not know what citizens would now, for example, in Ploče or in Metković when we talk about my county or in Korčula, who will continue to make their demands for work from the domain of the state administration in Korčula, in Metković or in Ploče. I don't see what this law means to them, I have to say, it's important to change, which is why we could claim to get better jobs. I think that as far as citizens who have so far made their demands to the state authorities in this case in front of the body, the state administration's office could carry out in their offices that almost identically these same jobs will now be unable to change anything significant. This is why it seems to me that this law, the application of the law, does not solve significantly or contributes to a better quality of services in the domain of the state administration's office in the area they have so far covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72973	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72974	My colleague Bačić and I, like you, express my expectations and hope that the availability of services will remain at the same level as before. You ask what, therefore, with the preservation of availability will be gains for citizens based on this law. This is primarily the possibility of a better organisation of a larger system, education and, by defining, delegating objects to those positions where, where there is less work, there will be a more efficient and faster solution of the cases that citizens address in the offices of the state administration and the organisation of work can certainly be more quality, which will therefore enable the cases to be resolved faster. Another dimension which has not been sufficiently talked about here is the possibility that requests to other authorities of the state administration, therefore not closely within the meaning of the Office of State Administration, so all other bodies of public authority and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are being submitted to requests and received information on those issues which the citizens are interested in. This has not been the case so far, so it is certainly one shift and it is certainly a good intensification of this law, of course it is for us to follow in practice the implementation of this law and see if these intensities have been achieved in the way that the legislator, or the legislator, planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72975	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. Ivan Schuker on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a Friday afternoon in front of a room this crowded, we're discussing a subject that should be very tangling to those who chose us. But what I said in my replica this morning, and I'm going to start this debate on behalf of the club, so that we could even discuss this law, this law lacks some key data, and that is, it's seen from the daily debates on how much the civil servants really apply this law. This is a key problem because you in Croatia have, unfortunately, a established rule of changing public, state services, etc. Why am I talking about the number of civil servants? So for the simple reason that out of 65, 66 thousand civil servants as many as there are, the most wastes on the MUP and on the Morh, they have their structure regulated by their regulations and how many ministers prescribe them. Also the largest part of the Ministry of Finance, it's the Tax Administration and Customs Administration, it's somewhere around 8,000 employees, now 100 up, 100 down, it doesn't matter, it's regulated by special laws on the establishment of a tax and customs administration that... the minister is passed by high, actually by law, and later regulations are in the structure and then we finally have this judicial part that's again regulated by some special laws. And colleagues and colleagues, when we reject these 65,000 together, we take away one part of the inspections that we have passed under these amended laws on the abolition of the State Inspectorate, in fact the Law on the formation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the body, so we have transferred, abolished the State Inspectorate and transferred to certain ministries, and then I get the impression that this law applies practically to 2,000 and a few other people, 3,000 people. And what, therefore, is crucial in this area to be covered by these civil servants? If the garter and, in fact, the granite in the service, actually under the Ministry of Justice, remains a cadastre with some intensities to join tomorrow's cadastre and grantovnica. And why am I saying that? Well, that's because it's just a gurgler's throat in the Republic of Croatia right now. The next administrative body is the one that issues building permits and because we have passed state powers on by law to 30 major cities. So we rule them out from this, which is next to the grantovnica, to say the bottleneck that bothers the citizens, especially in some cities, here people have been waiting for building permits for a few years and then we come to a very narrow area that regulates this law. Or if that's not the case then it's the law of general character, so he generally determines something, but with that he hasn't defined what because if he's the roof law based on which he's going to reorganize his five or six regions, and we've seen not all the ministries do that, then that's how it should have been written here. But since it's not written here, this law, according to my free estimates, refers to 2500, 2600 or 3000 people, primarily the parent and the management part, maybe some other service, and that's the end. Now, should those services that are still at the level at which they are, be governed by this law? Is there a need for these strong reforms? And should five of some, actually six offices be established and something reorganized based on it? In my view, it would be far more logical if at the state level the State Administration Office had been established and that organisational forms had started to satisfy Croatian citizens. And when we answer those questions, then we can just talk about decentralisation of certain functions, and now it's for decentralisation of certain functions... that's what we're going to put into decentralisation. As long as we don't set things up like that, we're unfortunately doing this ad hoc. And I don't know if it's the happiest set, I say when I see this part, whether this territorial division is the happiest set. Why? So I'll just touch one little segment, and we can talk about some more, and that's this part around the city of Zagreb. So, the towns of Zaprešić, Samobor, Velika Gorica were always administratively, communally, here... it was once called municipal, not administrative structure, were bound to the city of Zagreb, Ivanić City which was now in Zagreb County was administratively bound to Kutin, Jaska was always tied to Karlovac and therefore you pushed it all into one pile, and in the other direction, and take just that your parent books are tied to Zagreb rather than, as I know of Karlovac, Sisak or something else. And the other thing, what the minister said, I really want to know if the biggest cities are going to be the center of these offices? But let's leave it. What unfortunately we're all still on, which is the depoliticalization of the administration. At the moment we head these offices put people who will be state officials, we definitely gave up depolitisation and it's obviously not good. So many years over the past 10 years have been spent on depolitisation of the state administration and on professionalisation. Why? So for the simple reason only people who are professional who can do their job provide quality service to citizens. Those who have come here on some kind of political or such line are not good enough to provide a quality service. It's a fact, and we don't have to run from it to a colleague and colleagues. That's why I was saying in the beginning that we need to define which area this law applies to, if it applies only to this area then we have no reason to at least in this segment not to start with this story of depoliticalism and professionalization. Why? Well, because basically in this part, there's no political interest in sending someone into some kind of... and maybe this could just be a test rabbit to say that this state administration can really be depoliticized and professionalized. And now that we're talking about this state administration and today we've heard a lot of things here, but we who've had that happiness to go through our professional education and career through different levels of local and state self-government then we can't forget what our main objection was in '97, '98, '99 when this state-run section of administration that we're talking about today was supposed to have been in the mayor's jurisdiction. So the mayor was on the one hand a civil servant, the official of whatever you want on the other hand was the elected head of the local self-government unit and it was one terrible objection by the assistant lady to remember it very well from the European Commission and it was separated. And then it's fair to admit it here today. Why? So let's not make the same mistake again then, basically, the state administration is going down. Why? Because in the former municipalities, and the current cities, we remained practically part of the state administration that was decapitated had no real boss, couldn't fight for position, and the other thing was totally underpaid in relation to its colleagues and neighbors from the neighbouring office is local self-government at this point of time of these same people having salaries of at least 50, 60%. That's a fact. When you look at how much a parent who needs to have a higher or higher professional equipment has a salary of how much his colleague has in local self-government, you'll see that it's a difference of several thousand kunas. So that's what needs to be solved because if we don't solve it then this law doesn't make any sense. Although I think looking at it this way, given who it relates to, I don't see the point of its passing is to have such a law to organise new offices to abolish certain things, look, Croatia is not equally traffic-related and Croatia is not equally developed. What is in Zagreb and the surrounding area without a problem is 50km in some other environments the problem is to cross 10 or 15km because regardless of all the information and all the people will not be able to reach the service. We don't know that the home office whether he worked once a week or once in a month somewhere in the small middle is very important to older people. But all this happening in Croatia with some rationalization criteria is not good. And what I'd like to say is if someone submits a request, they'll get everything in the same place. That's why we introduced the OIB, that's why. In view of the fact that any request lodged in the Republic of Croatia on the central register, all data shall be withdrawn from the central register to the one who needs to issue a solution. It was the intention of the OIB. That someone later changed it and turned the OIB into what it is today is not good. And one of the biggest opponents of data exchange is those who didn't want to sign the data exchange protocol was the Ministry of Administration, I don't know for what reason. But if you have a central register in which you have all the data then any request to file for your pension, for social assistance, for anything, file it to the competent institution. The competent institution under the signed protocol will withdraw all certificates it needs from the central register and you will only come for a solution whether it is positive or negative. But that's why the state administration needs to be informed. And what's crucial to all of this here is what's said basic and the main prerequisite is informationality. However, another question is raised, and this is where the party will submit a request for a document. So not everyone is described as being able to work on a computer, many of our fellow citizens can still only apply to say physically to write some kind of paper and hand it over and it has to be regulated. And now, colleagues and colleagues, we have listed here 5 and plus Zagreb 6 offices, how will the network of these offices be expanded? Well it's the key to everything is that office he's gonna be somewhere. Whether it will be for those 5 or 6 Slavonian counties located in Osijek, whether for these Dalmatian counties it will be in Split Jura, Frani, Stipi they do not care. It is important to him how the office is located where he will apply for a certain service. And that's the key to everything. It's a basic moto of efficiency. If we haven't done that, we can do this any way we want, and we didn't do it right. And I couldn't read it out of this. The fact that it is said here that it will be regulated by certain regulations, etc. It doesn't please me as a parliamentary representative. It's not satisfying. Because if someone asks me a question where I can go tomorrow to get a housekeeper or something like that, I don't know how to say it, I'm paraphrasing. So I'm sorry there's no minister here. We didn't once, and while he was a representative, and I was a minister and later when he had the opposite discussion of this particular subject and discussed that there should be some state administration office where this would all be united together. But look, colleagues and colleagues, when changes are not being systematically done, then what happened to us now happens, so on the one hand, we're saying that we need to round things up and set things up, and on the other hand we say because of the interests of certain ministers that they have certain processes under control, we're terminating the State Inspectorate. And then we say this country has 42 inspections. However, the State Inspectorate was established with an exact intention to bring together eight economic inspections, not this one or that one, but eight and nine economic inspections and nothing more. So, we've dug this up by the ministries, and at the same time with some other laws, we're proposing a conflicting concept of the formation of the State Administration and that's what's not good. So, if we want to establish and what is at the service of citizens, then certain services must work for citizens and those services that will be controlled by these citizens, the structure must be very similar or identical. Very similar. But I am saying, with one basic goal, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have this service available. That's the whole point of this whole story. If we didn't do it, we didn't do anything. And we can throw ourselves here in Denmark like this, in France it's like this. However, some village in Vukovar-Srijem, or in Banovina, or in Baranja or Dalmatia, Zagora, and we can even say in the interior of Istria and we all like to talk about how Istria is developed, but the interior of Istria is not so developed. If that citizen can't get that favor, colleagues and colleagues we haven't accomplished our mission. And that's where this law has to go. He unfortunately doesn't go, he deals with five offices and deals with what I'm up against at the bottom of my soul, which is that we transfer public powers to private companies. Croatia is simply not mature for this. For all to come for a while, just one more sentence please, Mr. Vice President, Croatia is not mature at this time. And I repeat, all of us who have been lucky to pass certain levels of local and state self-government are aware of those facts. This law is about Croatian citizens, not us. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72977	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with everything you've said. I don't doubt, either, that this law is a logistical support for Croatia's further regionalisation. And it aims in a certain way to weaken the county as a unit of regional, regional self-government, so that later in the second phase, the regionalisation of Croatia is easier. But at this point, we have five different forms of local self-government organization in the Republic of Croatia, or regional self-government. So on the one hand, the city of Zagreb has a special position, so we have counties, then we have big cities, so we have cities and municipalities. In addition, local self-government, yes, and the city of Vukovar as well, because of special status. Now, it seems to me that by this law and the amendments to the laws and other amendments to the laws that we have re-designed customs, tax administration, etc., etc., we are creating another level of local self-government. And these are just these five seats, the headquarters of these offices of the state administration that are not the city of Zagreb, they do not have the position of the city of Zagreb but they are stronger, they have in a certain way a stronger position than the great cities is. It is clear that the large cities will continue to have those powers prescribed by law only in a certain way, the organisation of state administrations in these large cities will be in a certain way less, less power or less power than these five, these seats, which will be prescribed by the Government under this Regulation for the offices of the state administration. Therefore, it even seems to me that in the part where the Law on Regional Development of Croatia is going towards strengthening these individual cities. In this way, it is going in the opposite direction because certain cities are being strengthened and we are getting now it seems to me that two categories of large cities in Croatia are those that are ordinary cities and those who are the headquarters of these new state bodies either the tax administration, whether the customs administration, or any office of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72979	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, what I am asked is a fundamental question after these discussions today whether Croatia is ready for regionalisation. That's the key question. Because of all diversity and when we see that in the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area it is practically concentrated 65, 70 it doesn't matter if 5% plus up, minus the economy, then questions are asked whether Croatia is ready for regionalisation. Will this regionalisation lead to devastating divisions in the Republic of Croatia? And to the conflict precisely because of this great divergence? It's not a problem of regionalization when we all live in pretty much the same conditions, so that's the least of the problems. Then people do their jobs, they have jobs, they live by a certain standard, if professional career takes it to another part of Croatia, they will go like this everywhere, but unfortunately the map is only in one direction and that is the city of Zagreb. Perhaps some part of Split but hard and here, practically economically watching, do we want what is happening to us to us? And this is exactly what leads us to it. And we can't when we take income capacity and that's the key thing about these things, Croatian citizens in certain counties, then we'll see all the dangers of this all together. And when we take the seasonal character of individual jobs in certain regions that are predicted, that is why it is proposed continental and so to say the Adriatic region, precisely because there are certain similarities and problems where the city of Zagreb is highlighted as some kind of lighthouse that shines, however, the problems of northern Croatia with its wood and textile industry are the same problems that tend but in some other way peasants in Slavonia. Therefore, Croatia should view and share in such a way, and this is unfortunately something that can be dangerous and which, unfortunately, can lead us to violent conflicts that we do not need.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72981	Next line, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72982	Thank you. Here's a esteemed colleague of mine you were talking about depolitizing the state administration's office. And in principle, that principle sounds pretty good. We have, however, implemented this principle of depolitisation legally consistent with the regulation, let's say that mayors and mayors of their county and city offices choose therefore in a public competition as formally without the influence of politics. However, we are very aware that a very small number or almost none of these or mayors, mayors, chooses not their leaders completely unknown people who have received an objective public competition and I have no intention... of any political option. It's what they do, basically the top people of those units from any of the options, and I have to tell them honestly, I don't blame it at all. Because, for example, ...independent mayor Milan Bandic in the City of Zagreb, it is unthinkable for me, for example, that he would design and implement a political platform for the entire city on his own, so with only three people he manages a whole system of 15, 18 thousand people. It seems to me that it would be more politically correct and politically less hypocritical if we hadn't prescribed such a provision in that Law on local or regional, regional self-government. That's right here, we always have some objections to depolitisation when we're in opposition. I'm afraid any party would not or any political option in power would not resist if, however, for such important segments that depend on the functioning of the state administration were placed precisely by people who, as a result, got completely unknown in some public competition. That's why I thought, I suggested, and for that it should be a consensus perhaps of all policy options that as in the United States, for example. have a plan..., a book of colors... where the American president when he comes to the office has the right about I think 7.5-8 thousand people set up according to his intent and exactly the prescribed places. I think it would be good for Croatia if we adopted that principle, and then...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72983	Time, fellow Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72984	No matter what political options, and so we stick to that principle, and that would be far better than the present...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72985	Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72986	... The cop in his back you told the biggest truth. [[You don't understand.]] The biggest problem in Croatia is that some rule and perception that the state service is infatuation, a good life and nothing to do has been applied. Now, you see, when we turn that perception around, so when we say that whoever works in the state service, and who's going to meet the needs of the citizens who pay him must be highly professional and professional, then we won't discuss these things anymore, no matter what we're from two different political options. Unfortunately, however, we continue to push the story that in the state administration there are unemployed and incompetent people. An unemployed and incompetent man cannot provide a quality service. When we set the level of services that a Croatian citizen must receive, be sure not one mayor, not one mayor, not one mayor, and no minister will be put in a position to appoint a man who does not know how to work. Why? Because if someone is professional, he professionally does his job, professionally warns his boss of certain problems that may arise, so if this one doesn't do it, he's not responsible for it. So I'm talking about that kind of work. We'll probably need it as a society to grow up a lot, but you can't say that tax administration, customs don't have to be depolitized, sea. Its place of politics is gone, there are professional people working there, and they have to do professional people working under the laws that we bring here. Politics, we don't have so many millions of people educated that everyone knows how to do that job. Let's stop that illusion. So we think that a parent should be some kind of lame, motherly person and certainly must be an expert person. The queens and everything that runs together may not have happened to us, the discrepancies between the home offices and the MUP who worked and kept different records, so when we introduced the OIB, we found what, 200 and so many thousands of Croats that practically do not exist. Tens of thousands of Croats under the age of 16 registered in the home office have not been registered in the MUP because they did not ask for any official document. So, buddy, I'm talking about these things that you don't know about and don't talk about. So professionalism offers quality, let's let politics go, politics is run here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72987	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Ivan Posavec Krivec. Excuse me, my colleague, on behalf of the motionary, the Deputy Minister has come forward. Here you go, Mr. Puchuljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72988	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm going to try to say something in these five minutes about what's on my heart, which I've been working on for 30 years, and I think we've hit in this final part of the debate very, very well. I would agree to your suggestions to a good degree, with your thoughts. Of course, it does not seem to me what has been the debate all this time, that here it should have been and that the political component of this debate, the territorial structure and the reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia was important. It's a good thing that part here opened up. I don't think we can run away from that part, face our opinions, but it seems to me that this is just about once. This change, the intervention in the law had its own genealogy, and the genealogy was created around 2008 when the Croatian Government ordered the project and received a project almost similar to the reconstruction of the state administration's office in the way of Croatian science and international science as it is today. The county of the office also includes the weakening of the office, but also the recycling of a large number of offices that cannot have administrative capacity in the Križevci as they have in Zagreb and Split, and that is the point and this solution. This solution will be best in that part and I agree with Agent Shucker in that part that it probably needed much better to elaborate in that part to make the network look, but the network seems relatively simple. You are leaving it on the ground transformed, reinforced single administrative places that we have introduced by the General Administrative Procedure Act, and now we are working on it here, and these are the home offices strengthened and there are requirements from the office, but not from this office but from other offices, and in time also from state bodies and legal entities with public authority. You're setting up a sectoral, functional approach, which is now not done, and that means that the local authority for Dalmatia is unless you have an expert, and I assure you that of these it's been affected that there are about 2800 employees with relatively weak structure, 60 and some medium professional equipment you can't solve the heavy property-legal, complex property-legal jobs equally in a small place, also in a central university centre. And that's why it seems to me that and then you take over the items or you sectorally solve them, but the citizen gets his service on the ground. No one will eliminate one who is reasonable but will spread the network across the Republic of Croatia. And this right here, of course, when systematic or 25-year interventions, are almost 20 and some years unconstitutional. You can't build a system. This is just a small mosaic that is likely to move on the logic of things and on one sense, which is that in the end this deconcentration which is not only what my colleague Bozinović says the concentration, but the deconcentration of the affairs of the state administration which one France is doing is extremely long and extremely careful and in this is the top master of Croatian patriot and Croatian Mark... which says don't give up so easily, strengthen the state, then shift your functions to the next level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now in that part of the deconcentration follows, it must go towards decentralisation and this means strengthening local self-government and strengthening the region. I'll add one more thing in the final word. But it seems to me that here we are the only thing that matters here is the administrative availability of administrative services to citizens and that is high-quality, fast and efficient. That's what this law is about, these amendments to this law. We haven't touched these other parts at all. It is also important, because it shows that life goes on, that even legal persons with public authority, independent regulators live among us, determine very strongly our destiny and we do not give them or we simply give them some authority. Here we're trying to say no, it's a system, systematically we have to do it. This is a small intervention, but every intervention in the System Law is part of a systematic intervention. So it seems to me that in that part of me, that part of the optics and focus should be shifted from policy to citizen and towards administrative functions. And these are first-degree and this is the only serious law established first-degree bodies. There's the administration, the state administration is running at first degree and almost nowhere else. Because in the final, I think you should say what's behind this law, which is practically the move of the Ministry's district offices in the good part and the concentration in the offices of all the first-degree offices of the State Administration dispensed, networked, but then with a higher quality. Do not underestimate and overestimate what it is, that someone sitting in the town of Split sitting in the county, sitting in the city of Split, Not in the same place as the county office, the Office of State Administration with significantly less complex jobs, significantly better paid and therefore stimulated or not stimulated to do its job. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] The first-degree State Administration’s business in property and in-house transactions is extremely complex. That is, in the finale I would say something else especially in this part of the depolitical process that I can agree on to a good degree. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72989	Thank you. There'll be a chance of a replica. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72990	Thank you very much. Mr. Piculjan, we personally talked about these things many times. However, there is something that simply when we do this kind of thing we must not hide. We have something that's what it is now and we have two things that are unattractive to everyone. One is motherhood and that part and the other is property-legal relations where everyone runs like a devil from a incense. Why? Because they never know who they're going to have to take a piece of land and blame it on this or that. However, we cannot say that this law that regulates 2800 people should make such radical changes at this time or try to make some changes and then produce something else precisely because of the diversity of Croatia. Because as much as you're talking, you simply can't go with the number of people to what office they're going to have to deal with, because that job and the work of the administration requires a lot of economic, like this or something, not how many people there are. Therefore, this package that, this law went to the Law on the State Inspectorate, the Law establishing tax, customs administration, the Law on the establishment of these police stations or whatever it is called, and even what Minister Milenic is now walking around the formation of courts and that the whole story is rounded up in one package as a reform move by the state administration. Because it's the state administration no matter what they regulate their own story, then we could say it's systematic, that's it. Then when you tell someone you're removing his municipal court, now that you're removing his name from the county office or some tax returns, then when you move what I know, there's something else you can't explain to that man that you're raising the quality of his administration. So we can break and talk as much as we want, but that's why the state administration is one synchronised apparatus and only as a synchronised apparatus can act effectively, otherwise it can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72991	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy. You're responding from the scene. It's just a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72992	Excuse me. It's just what seems to me that we here don't really have a lot of misunderstanding. It seems to me that this project to reorganise the Office of State Administration is one of the more powerful projects, regardless of the small requirement that the Croatian administration has made since 2008 onwards in 2005. I don't want to talk about a complete project of state administration reform because this isn't, this is where the words of the state administration reform are spoken. This is modernisation, this is an improvement in one system, and this will be quite certain jobs that are uniquely carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia by state bodies, which are areas in the area of the economy, such as the issue of permits for craft jobs, the establishment of prescribed minimum conditions, jobs in the field of social activity, Croatian defenders, sports activities, property-legislative activities, the establishment of rights, the authorisation of property, the establishment of property rights for property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, the affairs of general government, the resolution of personal states, the state-of-the-arts, the registers of voters, other registers, the supervision of local property, the supervision of local self-government, the supervision of local self-government, not only, must be carried out in a uniform and quality that is uniform and quality that you can only, if you have good footage of the situation, we have, we have a good state of the state of the situation, and the four states in which are not only one-of the law and the one-of-of-of-of-of-the-law law, which is the one-law-law-law-law, which is the one-law-law-law-law-law-of-of-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law, which is-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-of-law-law-of-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-of-of-law-law-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-law-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-of-law-of-law-of-of-of-law-of-of-of-of-of- [[/Intruder Batinić: Your time is up, Deputy. We have three more replicas, so it's going to be...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72993	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Piculjan, first of all, one remark that concerns us here. It's sad that no matter what we agree with what we're talking about now or not, there are letters and numbers nine of us here and we're talking about one topic that really concerns people in all places, in all cities, some of us are very interested in it, what they're suggesting or not, and it's for concern, it's a small excess of opposition to the rulings, but there's still a total of nine of us, and it's actually sad, I have to say. However, what I was going to say and what was very good to be launched in this discussion if, in this chamber composition of the Assembly, the fact that the importance of professionalisation of the administration is highlighted, I think of the state administration as a whole, I think it is one of the huge problems of the Croatian state, and unfortunately not at the local level or at the state level, it is not far enough attention but that it is going in the opposite direction, we were aware that, let's say in 2012, it was almost entirely spent on changing the full set, bringing to its people in a country that is a small country, where human resources are very modest, where there is no possibility of finding more quality people for all positions, especially if they have to meet the capacities and needs and demands of certain members of the coalition so-and small parties in the coalition, in the government, etc., etc. It seems to me that one of the key things that Croatia must be able to do is to professionalise the state administration because it really has nothing to do with global policy whether an official in an office, in one small place is in one or the other party, when we achieve what we do, I think we have already come a long way into solving the crisis in which Croatia is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72995	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72996	The answer here is simple. I agree, it is an absolute topic that deserves certainly one broad discussion of Croatian experts, scientific public and political public, and that is a process that I think is unquestioned and only possible for European Croatia, that is, and that is what we are doing and that we are constantly imposing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72997	Thank you. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Piculjan, I may not be able to quote you correctly but you said somewhere on the trail that it is difficult to expect some small exposures from the state administration, the state administration's office can, in property-legal relations, solve quality work at the level of some university work, etc., etc. It seems to me that this law actually weakens the position and that is how the law foresees it, weakens the position of the precisely present-day insults of the state administration that were in the county centers and because they are now losing that position by this law which had until the amendments to this law and have become in a certain way some new structural unit lower-ranked compared to the state administration office which will now be, for example, in Split, and in Osijek I do not know where it will be. I believe that in those seats of which many and the university cities of which you yourself have spoken, there are sufficient capacity to deal with in complex property legal matters when they already have, when they are seats and municipal and not to say, numerous of them are the headquarters of county courts, therefore, if we can find personnel to solve such complex processes, judicial processes which are settled before the county courts I suppose have enough capacity and in civil servants to solve through property legal matters that are within the jurisdiction of the state administration's office. And on the other hand, it seems unacceptable to me, such a solution that goes towards the fact that the head of the state administration was also the head of the state administration's office of such a large area, that he became a state official. I think we need to break up with such a practice that the directors of state administrations that have become, become assistants, and that the heads of state administrations like this become state officials. They should not be the prey of election winners, after parliamentary elections and I believe that these persons should be highly professionalised, quality professionals who lead the largest in the ministry's presidencies and in the state administration's offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u72999	Thank you. Here you are, Deputy Minister, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the first part of the reshuffle speech, this sectoral, functional, perhaps I have not explained it precisely enough, but it is quite certain that if we take only the region and you are interested in it, Dalmatia, and it is certain that Zadar and can perform and perform all the functions that it has so far performed as the Office of State Administration, but some when you just move to another part of Croatia, they simply cannot, all the offices have shown themselves equally capacitated to perform all the functions, part of these functions will be performed elsewhere where we have the capacity to do so. That would be this answer. And as far as professionalization is concerned, I just have to say that this solution that today, the solution to be state officials, will also be taken into consideration what you said and in the second reading will be reviewed and the second reading will give you an answer to whether we will go to such a solution or to a changed solution, which means to professionalise this body. In any case, if what I think is necessary is that if this solution remains, we have talked about it, and we have had alternative solutions, and that's what we've talked about, and it's that when officials write down the conditions under which they can, which they have to meet if they run these bodies that are primarily high-ranking bodies, that's what we call them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73001	Thank you. And Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73002	Dear Deputy, although I was talking about it today, but you were repeating yourself again about decentralization, or decentralisation, it may be good to repeat here at the end of the day that there is no possible fiscal decentralisation before functional decentralisation or what your colleague Bozinovic was saying, it would be good to do so in one package and we also talked about the example of the city of Zagreb, we should think about that possibility, but we also said that many people in the Republic actually don't know the affairs of the state administration office. It's fortunate that public administration offices are located in county headquarters buildings so people don't feel that way because they think it's all done in one building, if it wasn't for that we might already have some resistance to some of the citizens. Then you said that this was not a reform but was actually a modernization and then you listed certain jobs, crafts, their activities, registers, Croatian defenders, social affairs, voters' registers, construction and so on and you said that it was possible to transfer it to the county and I also agree with it and you mentioned it perhaps abroad, here I will tell you only... in Germany you issue traffic permits, driving licences, crafts betray you municipalities, why couldn't the municipalities do it? So certain things and certain jobs can be transferred to local self-government and regional units and be extremely effective. Moreover, the proposal for this law states in the clarification itself that it provides for the possibility that the conduct of inspection tasks can be divided by a special law by a legal person who has public authority if the conduct of laws relating to a specific area. Well, according to that logic, perhaps then the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be entrusted to a legal person with public authority. Here, just so much to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73003	Thank you. Deputy do you want to answer? No, thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues, no more co-workers, and then I'm just saying hello to my colleagues. Today, this debate probably took a little longer than everyone expected together, but certainly because this is a good one because this is an important issue for both the Republic of Croatia and the state administration, especially at the local level, which I think we heard from all the debates today and we'll agree on. We at the SDP Club believe that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration, which is currently in front of us today in the first reading, is one of the steps in just one of the reforms that is important to happen, which is important for the Republic of Croatia, which, as well as geographically, is very specific, transforming the state administration into an efficient and modern administration. Moreover, this is something that is written in the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Administration for the period 2014 to 2016, which was brought by Minister Bauk, 10 May 2013, where certain visions, missions and objectives were set, so for all of us, it may be important to stress that it is this document that sets up a modern and user-oriented public administration, that the mission of the Ministry of Administration is a permanent improvement of the system of public administration in order to ensure and protect public interest, legal action and provision of services in the exercise of the rights of citizens and economic operators of the Republic of Croatia. And also these objectives are to improve the system of public administration, build a user-oriented administration, improve expertise, quality in providing administrative services and a number of other quality public services through the use of different tools and systems in the work of public administration. So on these basic starting points, on these foundations, we in the SDP believe that for one Croatia with only 4 million inhabitants with a territory stretching from the south, from the sea to the east, there to the border very broad, for which we often hear in various analyses that acts as a small body with a large head, certainly referring to the city of Zagreb and the concentration, not only to the human potential but also to the economic potential in the centre of Croatia, for one need of equal access to the whole country, uniform conditions for all residents in the Republic, whether they come from the most remote islands or whether they live in the suburbs of the metropolis. And just in this bill of law, we see the beginning of such a reform. We see one step towards an effective administration that is functional and is turning towards its citizens. This is what we see from these five offices of the state administration that are now formed on quite different principles and they are not following the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, they are not relying on administrative and functional borders of the county as a unit of regional, or regional self-government, but they are coming across them, they are uniting them and creating unity amongst something that perhaps no one has ever seen as a whole, and what must start to work as a whole in order to just get to this quality organisational and functionally united state administration in the Republic. We'll all agree that there's a system, it's been functioning for many years, it's been changing, but we'll also agree that this system has its weaknesses. And just for the sake of perceived weaknesses, and here the deputy spoke about it, weaknesses were seen not at the political level but at the professional level right there in 2008 this proposal came out. Of course, it is a suggestion that he is in the first reading and that I hope that on behalf of the proposing you will hear, or that today you have heard, everything that we believe should be further promoted until the second reading or reconsidered. But we certainly welcome in the SDP that perhaps for the first time the state administration system of state administration looked at itself in a way that puts the functionality and accessibility of citizens first. This would mean, in our opinion, that by looking at the number of inhabitants per territorial, or I'm going to say it freely in the geographical sequence, they've tried to piece together these very elements that you represent by this law. We're not going to deal with what these wholes are going to be called today. They are simply formed here through regular numbers and I agree with what Minister Bauk pointed out today, for the start of the debate may be the best start because we are all in the soul of local patriots and we are all going to ask the question that the historical or territorial name will be first for some maybe tomorrow future whole. So in this way we may have essentially turned to seeing that it's important that these are now balanced by the number of inhabitants as a whole, that these are the wholes that involve the possibility that no rationality in the use of human resources is reduced to a minimum, that in the first step, that's how we see human resources being put into place. Because all of you colleagues here today have been talking about making quality people, people who are educated for their work and people who have been in the system for a long time, who have passed state expert exams and who are very professionally committed to their work. However, not all of them in all situations and in all environments are able to contribute equally or be in a maximum position to make their knowledge and competences available, so I will also say this reform step. Therefore, this unification of human resources in the first row will lead us to a more efficient state administration and its system especially at that local level. This local level is important and there we certainly support the introduction of a single administrative place that will be a major step because in one place directly accessible to citizens, regardless of whether they come from small units of local self-government from some municipality or city, if we understand well in a place where today may exist outposts of the home office, where the mother or mother is with the queens or where it is the place to issue the housekeeper or the basic documents that are important to our citizens, you can now do so almost in the place of your residence regardless of the place of residence or residence whether you are born in another part of the Republic. This would mean that there is no more travel here, and even if there is a need for Korčula for those who were born in Korčula, and today they live in Zagreb, it will already be resolved through the system simply, functionally and equally quickly. Of course, this must not be the ultimate goal, I think the ultimate goal must be for all of us, and we at the SDP club support e-Croatia or Croatia without paper or that in the end all of these documents can be solved thanks to the information connection, availability and support of the system from the house in the way it is simplest, fastest and most rational. Looking further here, there are still some issues that are open today that we may not need to be much longer, but it should be stressed that our citizens are often in awe at all what we are talking about here today and they are asking themselves the question of what these are really matters dealing with the offices of the state administration, or whether it will be new, or whether it will happen here as often in the media, to notice the erasure of the county, their change through some new models of the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, or the loss of powers of the county and the mayors elected in the direct elections. So I think it is important that the media may explain to our citizens in the future that public administration offices do administrative and other very professional jobs in administrative areas, especially as you mentioned shortly before the deputy economy, social activities, general government, property and legal affairs, in fact that they enter almost daily lives in all these segments and that they are very important for the functioning of the economy in particular social activities. Maybe no one even knows that maybe early child enrollment in primary school is within the jurisdiction of the state administration's office. And what we've all caught ourselves for the most part in this debate is how many of these offices will be, where they will be their seats, what will happen to existing personnel, professional staff, employees employed in them and how everything will continue to be solved. Well, actually, it's all clearly defined by the act that's in front of us. It is quite clear that there are no dilemmas here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation will regulate the regulation that will regulate the internal structure of these offices, that almost all the places where we are taught today are going to go to the state administration's office, today these are the offices of state administrations in the counties, and so each of the counties has its specificities today, but ultimately there will be rationalisation. And now that the question of rationalisation is raised, then somewhere it is a sum of about 5 million kuna savings, correct me if I have the wrong information that would be achieved solely on the basis of a reduction in the number of management staff or a reduction in the number of heads of state administration in the counties from the current 20+20 deputies to 5+5 deputies. Now, in today's debate, we hear different thoughts about whether the head of the state administration's office should be an official in the future. Is it a matter of politics or is it a matter of profession? Why is it doubtful that an official can't be a man of the profession? Why is it doubtful that current officials or current leaders could not be officials tomorrow. The official in this case can take one major advantage, can take precedence right in a segment where the ministry has set goals in its strategic plan. And one of these goals is certainly the one that was outlined in 2008. It says that all objectives, i.e. reforms, i.e. the internal structure and success of the state administration's office, will happen only if all their conclusions, all assumptions and all that is shown consistently through the law are implemented. In the SDP club, we believe that ensuring consistency of the implementation of everything the law provides lies precisely in the responsibility of those who pass the law, in responsibility that they can influence people who will be the leaders, not only to give them the opportunity to contribute to the reform through their professional contributions, but to realize that their work is as measurable as any public official or official in the Republic of Croatia should be. And if we're going to deal with these principles that actually depolitisation isn't contrary to expertise, to personnel, then I'm sure we'll come together to track down consensus. And this is reform. And the other day we participated here and attended a debate that surprised many, a debate that called for consensus, which called for questions in the Republic of Croatia that are not left or right but issues that are issues of the future of this country. And as the minister said, the reform began before. This procedure that we have today's bill of law started in 2008 and I am sure it will not end in the next year because this strategic plan by 2016 has been drawn up most but not all so that it will continue in the term of the next Government. And it would be good for an effective public administration that we are working together to be at a consensus today and to strive for a second reading to be resolved and the question of the centre, to maybe solve the issue, all these issues that are open today and then by consensus to pass that law. The SDP club will support the bill in its first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73005	Thank you. We're moving on to the replicas of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73006	I'm a colleague of Ivan's. I'd be happy to have these laws consensually, however, I'll remind you of two consensuss that have completely reversed. One is the Law on Premarital settlement, and then after 6 days, 45 articles changed and the law went in a completely different direction. The second is the Law on Waters and its Article 199(3), which has led us to the situation in which he has brought us. And that's why I'm afraid of this article 58th says the Office of State Administration 3 is forming the area of Zagreb County, Karlovac County, Krapina-Zagorska and Sisak-Moslavina, it... will be the center. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's the biggest city, then I'm happy then the centre will be in Velika Gorica. But I'm sure Sisak and Karloac will fight with their hands and feet to be their headquarters. And the Krapina won't be far behind either. In the end, it is logical and likely that fellow Members of the congregation will think in that way. However, since we don't have a network under that office, then we can't talk about it at all, every debate is purely political and then we can say that we are not discussing here in the interests of our citizens but are discussing in the interest of getting their eyes dirty and showing them how we are fighting for their interests. That's not how I want to discuss it. I repeat this law is very important but it's too general. Depolitisation and professionalism is something that simply needs state administration in the Republic of Croatia, it simply needs for a million and one reason. Because the services of these administrations are used by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia of different political options, different religions, different skin colors, different all possible differences we have. And therefore, one who provides them with this service must be guided to provide a quality service to a Croatian citizen and nothing else. And that's why it's for depoliticization and for professionalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73007	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Posavec the guilty, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73008	Thank you, Vice President. You see, fellow Shuker, you are not today City Councilor of the City of Velika Gorica, nor am I here today the municipal council of the Municipality of Križ, nor are we members of the Zagreb County Assembly today, we are MPs here today. And our interest above all should be the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It should be the interest of all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, and we can't go as far as we want and as much as it was in our subconscious to see the local patriotist best solution for our environment. I am sure that you and I both know very well that it is the Zagreb County, and here the assistant lady is not a representative example on which we can look at the state administration because we are a specific county that does not even have a seat in its area, but that is defined by law and that is how we respect it. The fact is, we need to find the best solutions. The best solution leads us to unification. I've calculated here by the state administration's offices, which would mean that the unit, so number 1 has an average population density of 66.2 inhabitants per km2 for example. that number 4 has 47 population density, that number 5 has 82, while the City of Zagreb has 1232 inhabitants per km2. And it is clear that on such concepts not only about the surface and the number of inhabitants but by putting them into a relationship we cannot have the same results and we cannot have the same quality and not even the speed of carrying out all those administrative procedures that must lie on state administration bodies. So it is irrelevant for every resident whether his seat will be in Velika Gorica or whether he will be in Karlovac or be in Sisak. It is important to him that he can solve his problem in the nearest place and, as we read this law, we experience it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73009	Thank you. Dubravko Bilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73010	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of Ivana's actually said the essence of my replica. I also agree that any entry into the reform system, no matter how big or small it is, it is always reformal and what this amendment of the law is exactly a mini reform on the way to actually aligning the offices of the state administration, or the functioning of the state administration with the times in which we are going, which is digital time. My colleague Ivana also mentioned this e-Government which is very, very important and it is not only a paper-free conversation but also about the paper administration, but in a unique management post and that is the key thing. And then we'll get rid of politics and talk about whether my city is the center of the state administration or region's office than the headquarters of the state administration's office will be a place where I, as a citizen, will be able to exercise my right, or my need to do some work in the jurisdiction of the state administration's office. Is it Zagreb, is it Varazdin in the case of the Varazdin County, for me as a citizen of Ludbrega it is in any case Ludbreg and this unique administrative place using the OIB system, using the eGovernment system will allow me to feel like I am a citizen of my small place living in a big place because I will solve my big problem right on the doorstep.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73011	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Guilty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73012	Is a colleague, yes, we agree. The fact is that this is a small step, but this is a step that has already recognized all those steps that have been taken so far and that tries to bring them together on fundamental assumptions that are an effective and rational state administration, consciousness and establish an optimal model. The optimal model of course does not always offer that everyone in it is satisfied, there are always those who think they've lost something, unlike those who see an advantage on the other hand or some possibility of getting a seat or other function that can happen on their microterror. But if we rise from that level a little bit, then we'll see that it doesn't really matter. It is important that all of those structures within the state administration are functionally and functionally united at local level, that they be connected and that they give better quality, to make use of the human potential that we all recognize as valuable and quality and that in this direction we offer new, better solutions, direct solutions for our citizens and that they ultimately feel it quickly and quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73013	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues of John, I would agree with many of the things that you have presented in your presentation, some would not, and especially not with two things. First of all, I believe that it is not wise enough to mark government administrations with regular numbers in the first reading of the law. I would be more inclined if the government had been braver and came to this House with a proposal of the headquarters of these offices of the state administration because this is the impression that either the Government does not want the Council of the Republic of Croatia to decide on this, so by its own regulation it will prescribe it on the one hand or on the other hand among the ruling MPs and the ruling parties not yet decided which city will be the headquarters of a single state administration office. And the second part that I disagree with you concerns the fact that you do not hold a disputed provision under which the head of the state administration's office will be state officials. I believe that complex, extremely complex transactions in the state administration must be professionalised, and when it comes to operations within central state bodies, so in the ministries and when it comes to the offices of the state administration, especially now these offices of the state administration that will cover a significantly larger area. So I believe that these jobs need to be professionalized, that it is necessary to allow civil servants to be, as the crown of their careers in professional administrative terms, exactly the position of the director of some administration or perhaps the head of the state administration's office in these offices of the state administration. In this way we would certainly make it more efficient, more up-to-date, more professional, both work in the ministries and in the offices of the state administration. I believe that this decision, which includes three levels of top ministry duties, is not good, therefore, that the politician and the minister and the deputy, and then the ministerial assistants. I think it was better to keep that double level of professional, or political responsibilities in central state bodies and this place as head of the administration. also completely depolitize. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73015	The answer to the replica of my colleague, the guilty one, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73016	... The names of the area and the centres I think this debate would go quite in the other direction, so that this debate would go in that direction, in the direction of competence between one, the other or the third city. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] In this direction that he had just opened up and fellow Shucker when he first started here today, I don't think anyone from that point on has mentioned any cities that could as current county seats become tomorrow's headquarters. So we'd turn the debate in another direction not in that fundamental direction. And I don't think we understand each other at all in this second part when we're talking about officials and when we're talking about officials. Even here, in the final terms of the law itself, it is said that current officials can become officials and, at the end of the term of office, there is a law that determines that. I'm also an officer, an official at the State Department. And what you're talking about is really one example in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is professional and career diplomats. So what would this mean? That someone professionally involved in this business and came to the level of a high-quality official why he couldn't become a senior official tomorrow. After the term of office for which someone took responsibility and gave him the same responsibility to the head man he is returning and still professionally doing his job. I see it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73017	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club, Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73018	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, gentlemen representatives of the Ministry of Administration, colleagues and fellow enthusiasts. I'll say first that I think this topic should have been on the agenda in another term. We're now with this thing pretty out of the picture, and management is a complex thing, the science of management is a complex thing. The administration is an organism of the state. So, that thing was supposed to be discussed in another term and then you'd hear maybe a lot more arguments than a couple of us are going to say right now. Management is among other things the most important thing, which is that it is the service of citizens. And that is the basic premise of the entire administration that it must serve in favour and in the interest of the citizens. I fully understand the promoters and their desire to modernise this system of ours and support them in that. Namely, all the analyses say that we are as a country below the European average, the EU average by indicators to measure some quality of public administration, which is efficiency, transparency, speed of decision-making in public administration, and that these are the criteria by which some measure is assessed by the administrative capacity of the state. And we are at that assessment below the EU average. Of course, then we question citizens' trust, the trust of entrepreneurs. Of course, that also leads to that issue of some kind of entrepreneurial initiative, entrepreneurship, etc. etc. It is rare to mention a large state apparatus that in the past 20 years has about 240 employees of civil servants and tenants, often and unjustly pointing to the finger as if they were workers such as, or unemployed, like those of the novel "In Registration". Of course, who's been doing a little bit of management knows that's not the case. So we understand the need for this thing to be modernised and I repeatly support it, but we're going to say some suggestions. In the end, we stayed here on Friday to say some sighting in the first reading, hoping that we would remove certain disagreements over the concept of reorganization of the administration. Here it is said that, for us, the key things of article 55 are going to be, and there was talk about it. So he's talking about forming a state office. Instead of 20, we have five, so the number of government offices is that I don't repeat them now. But the key question for me is what they're numbered by numbers, and they're not defined by the name. And I don't even agree with a colleague who used to say it would cause some debate. All right, if it were to cause some debates and connotations, then why don't we talk about it? My guess is it was done on a basis like that, the distribution was made on the basis of so-called. The NUC region, statistical regions that have some parameters, which is about 800,000 inhabitants, is a standard for the NUC region. And I see that's about as geographically divided as it is. I don't mind, but I should have said that then. And I think it was necessary to define the names of the headquarters or to locate the headquarters of the Office of State Administration completely open, completely brave. At that time, citizens' trust would be greater, then all disagreements would be removed and there would be more confidence in this concept that we propose. I don't see why that should have been left at level 1, 2, 3, so then I from Osijek have to think about whether or not to quote whether it's going to be in Vukovar tomorrow or maybe it's going to be in Slavonski Brod. There's no need for that because we're going into a very serious procedure and it needs to be done that way. Another thing that I would talk about, so I would warn and possibly that in my reading of this text, and I may not be quite right, I allow myself to say, but I warn of some things that there are fears that will happen in practice. This is Article 59f. The key thing is a unique administrative place that is the solution to all problems how citizens will benefit from this new system of state administration, whether this system will be, will have the main premise to be rational and cheaper, and will lose the basic function of benefiting citizens, in the service of citizens, or will we put it as an imperative to be a service that will use predominance in relation to citizens so let it cost a little bit more but let it not suffer citizens and fully agree with fellow Shucker who had previously spoken. It's the basic thing to see a network under the office, how it's going to form a network under the office because for me in this case, these unique administrative places are actually a social category. We can, with this poor organization of that thing, complicate and additionally burden the users with the means. So if we have dispersed areas, if we have one character, if we have the Gračac area and now it's equal distance from Zadar and Gospić, where will these people go? Will they all be able to use their present role, so use services in Grazac or will they have to go to Split in some future centre of that state office, who will pay those costs to those people. I'm talking about an ordinary little man who needs to go to the economy office now looking for some kind of paper, he must have done it by now in his little place, from now on he has to go downtown, whether I'm wrong maybe, if I'm wrong, you're correcting me, maybe I'm wrong, but I'd like to alarm the thing in time for it not to be, that's why we didn't say it. So it all depends on the future structure of that network under Article 57f, which is the solution to all problems for us. So let's say we have a question about housing and restoration, whether this new thing is going to improve, whether it's going to be more efficient, whether things are going to build up or if things aren't piling up. So in good faith, I accept motive and say in Article 55. By this regional now, it will increase local jurisdiction. It's a good logic for me, so the local jurisdiction of these offices will increase, then they'll be able to redistribute, so they can be redistributed both by objects and by officers within that office in a wider space, if I understand correctly, and that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing and you've defined it well. It's probably going to be less bottlenecks, then there's going to be less silence of the administration, then it's going to be able to unload one and deploy the other, and probably from that and the effect will be, the effect of the individuals is going to be differently set, maybe there's going to be pay different definitions, so that's a series of practical things that I think is well solved. However, from this text I do not see, or I have no idea that this network will be set up so that users, that our citizens of ordinary people in relatively undeveloped environments where the bus goes in the morning and in the evening that these, that they will not be burdened with this new organization. And the third thing that we're particularly interested in is my colleague earlier in the replica of the minister tried to detect the problem, so the minister gave him a very awkward answer, referring him to some statistics, math at the seventh grade level, but then from then on. So, what were we gonna say? We point to the fact that there are current practices, there are obligations and legal and international acts to be respected in, to be taken into account in the employment structure of the participation of members of national minorities in the general population of that state institution, if we have now spread the state office to three or four counties and have reached the number of 8 hundred thousand as bases it will be the basis for then employment, for tracking statistics. I'm not talking about current employees like the minister said five plus five so all together is no. I don't speak in principle, so with this way if we don't define something more concrete here in the Law itself, we don't define this thing more concretely with this law, the structure of the participation of national minorities in employees in state institutions will be significantly corrupted. That's probably what will happen when we do the reorganization of the courts, and that's what's going to happen when we do the reorganization of the MUP, and that's what's going to happen when we do other services as a cadastre because obviously the intensity to do it together according to this regional principle. So, I have nothing against this principle of thinking and organisation, but I warn that this could happen in the future and then what we keep saying when we talk about the consumption of certain rights of national minorities and from constitutional law and from some other acts we call for participation, the percentage of participation in mass employment. So this is definitely going to spoil this structure to the harm of members of national minorities, and I ask you, I ask you to take care of it and I think that if we sort of correct these things in this text ourselves so that we in the second reading don't have a problem with accepting these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73019	Thank you. The word came from Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73020	Here, just thank you. Final or what? [[Intruder Batinić: I ask for a pay phone.]] Okay, just a second. [[Upadica Batinić: No, no, it's not final because it's about the debate.]] Here, just two things. First of all, with the honourable representative of Mr Horvat, it will certainly be in the final word that we will address this dilemma in relation to the seats and names in the second reading if there is one. And as for the very network he warns about as important, not just for members of national minorities, above all for citizens, I think it's actually one, if it doesn't seem to me the greatest benefit of this law. The network is indicated in the explanation and it exists, the network is a network of networks of parent offices, perhaps not well indicated that there will be a transformation in the offices of outposts in a way that will strengthen some, parent offices related to performing other administrative functions, but this will happen. There may be some unreality about the outposts somewhere, it's almost certain that the irrationalities associated with some exposures will be resolved in a way that really turns them into a unique administrative place. That network will be built all over the Republic and it will only be upgraded to what we have now. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think it would be worth this warning in the end that the Constitutional Law is the one that practically guarantees and guarantees the rights of members of national minorities to represent the authorities of the central and first-degree state administration, we're not going below that level, that's for sure. You will have in the following, in the final connection of this law and that answer which will be as the Constitutional Law requires. What is more, it seems good to me to say about Mrs Ivan Posavec Krivec and what is also one gain of this law or the gain of the whole process that takes place in modernising or mini-reforming the administration, which is this electronic administration. Today, from January 1st, we have connected queens and we have the possibility to use registers and records in all home offices by September 01st, and already, in part, since January 01st, we have guaranteed cash benefits that are being transferred to the state administration's office and that will be one, indeed, one, important, 120 thousand cases will be dealt with on the way, in this way, now solve 15 thousand. That's important. What's important, which is not visible, which is perceptions and that's the distinguished representative Posavec Krivec said, which is that the public doesn't recognize the office's affairs, but believe me, a little mini research has shown that the public doesn't recognize, that citizens only recognize one management unit or self-government unit, which is the municipality. When you have on one wall a board of state administration offices, dislocated departmental treasures, municipalities, cities and counties, when little research, very little, not in a representative number of copies has shown that anyone leaving for help, professional assistance goes to only one place, goes to the municipality. On this we must, what we will do, what this law has in it, is that it is very precise, not only on the web pages but also in the offices and outposts it says which jobs, in particular which jobs that citizens can understand and very well and very easily, not in a complicated language, which offices can enable them to do. Well, I guess that's enough for now, for a reply to a replica of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73021	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I have already expressed my position during several replicas and that this Law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration and the laws already adopted in this House in the first reading, which relate to the structure, both tax administrations, customs administrations, etc. to go towards creating such logistics and opportunities for the introduction of regions into the Republic of Croatia. On that trail, I must say, I see this law too. Often when in this House, as well as in Croatia, politicians want to justify the introduction of regions and the reduction of regional and regional units, European policies are linked by mentioning Europe's region as one major political thought in Europe, which should then be accepted in Croatia in a way that reduces the number of units of regional self-government. I must say that today in Europe after 2004, after the Constitutional Treaty for Europe was adopted, that European policy has in a certain way stepped down towards the idea of the Europe region and that the dominant idea today in Europe's European policy of the countries, so where the European Commission, the European authorities no longer see a political partner in European regions, is primarily seen in national countries. So it seems to me that, in a certain way, this idea has a little bit in Europe stemmed from the time after Mastrichito when Europe's region was full of mouths and when it was through European development funds, regional funds have been channelled towards regional units in national countries. But if it is even in Croatia, the prevailing view of the need to approach the regionalisation of Croatia, then it seems to me that this regionalisation and the jobs that could be done at the level of these regions, so in this sense and the jobs that this law provides, it seems to me that it must be the result of certain studies, analysis, indicators that speak to all of us who may not even support the new regionalism in Croatia that this solution is better than the existing solution. I have to say that I have not seen such an analysis so far that it would systematically talk about some need to dock the county and set up regions that would reduce the number of regional units. And I am particularly not a supporter to discuss a partial approach in a way that we solve one segment of the state administration, in a way that so far is done in the centres of the county, in a certain way we are already focusing on the headquarters of these future regions, and I am not particularly a supporter of an approach in which separation is observed by the new structure of the state administration, without valorising or accessing certain changes and strengthening of the unit of local self-government. Even in this report, in which the ministry is called or the government that has worked, it seems to me that the Institute of International Relations is talking about the unwarranted fragmentation of the system of state administration, etc. but it is also talked about the practice which is in many developed European countries that units of local self-government then take over certain tasks that according to this report should be left by local self-government units, not further concentrated in perhaps larger centres of future regions, etc. So it seems to me that we Parliamentarians, as well as the entire Croatian public, should be convinced that we can be convinced of the justification of this kind of approach, then this job that the government does should be more demanding and complex in a way that goes in some kind of strategy for this development of state and local self-government in Croatia that would be discussed and perhaps adopted without consensus but we would know which direction the state administration is going in and in which direction local self-government is going. This seems to me to be the right approach, because in this way we are witnessing that in the Croatian Parliament often the Government comes with certain measures calling them strategic reforms, public administration reforms, economic reforms so that after a certain time a month, two, six or a year we come back and find that what we thought was good for a particular segment of public administration that it was no longer good. Here we are witnessing that at the beginning of the term of office the government began with a single reform in the health system by reducing the contribution to health insurance from 15% to 13%, which led to a collapse in the Croatian health system. Here I am reading today, and we are hearing these days that the government is likely to propose to the Parliament a return of the rate of contribution to 15%, that I am not saying that we have also changed the VAT rate in tourism without the quality of the study, and that we have re-returned it, that I am not saying that we started off with pre-departure deals in one way during the time that law was in force changing government regulations. Now the question arises whether this was a good approach and whether this is how we made it possible for corruption to be affected, etc. Desiring that perhaps now fundamental decisions in the law should be left to the Croatian judiciary again. What am I saying? I mean, without quality background analysis, study, strategy, I don't know how these solutions that are ad hoc aren't good. I may not be a supporter of this law, I don't have any information at my disposal, but this is the kind of approach in which a county headquarters loses certain attributes that it has so far without even entering into a debate about the fate of such counties is not good. Because it already automatically indicates that we do not have a clear approach in this territorial structure of the units of local self-government is already our goal, we have set a goal, and now in a certain way we are going without valid arguments that might be absolutely accepted in a debate. In this law, I accept, Mr. Deputy, and I support the formation of a single administrative place that will enable in one place in the Republic of Croatia wherever it is possible to make public administration services available and that is good and I believe that it may need to be better developed and strengthened in this way. Whether it's a mother's office or somewhere else I think it should be supported anyway. As far as I'm concerned, raising the head of staff to the level of the state official isn't a good solution for me, I've talked about it many times. During the HDZ government, you know this very well, in a certain way by the European Commission, that two levels of government officials should be set up at the level of the central state authorities. These were then ministers and state secretaries, and the leaders of the most complex systems and organisational units in the central state bodies should be professionalised in a way that abolished the position and place of assistant ministers and made it possible through the public tender system to enable civil servants who qualify to take the highest place in the state administration as the crown of their careers and can be made available to them on the basis of his progress in education, etc. Here by coming to the power of the Kukuriku coalition, another level has been introduced that is the assistant minister as a political official, as a place that is clearly linked to the results of the elections and to which people are named without the necessity to have all those qualifications that they would have had to do, therefore, for civil servants who would come to the head of the administration. So it seems to me that neither is the place that should require the duty of a political official, so I also hold that neither the head of the State Administration's office is the regular number of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, which should be subject to the party's schedule and arrangement. These should be primarily civil servants who, indeed, have done their work during their work experience really deserve and have gained that position so that they can be, that they can come to that place. So here I do not support such a provision. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73023	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73024	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, what is the situation in Croatia now, we have 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. All ministries have begun to push some of their reforms into some five regions and we have statistical regions based on which they should withdraw money from the EU funds. Now, an essential question is raised if we go to some new end of Croatia whether all parameters of demographic, economic, traffic, etc. are then used, and therefore try to make some kind of excess, it is discussed, and when an agreement is reached or not reached, someone makes such a political decision and then the basis of such a decision is to work on the administrative structure of the state. However, what I said in the debate and in the name of the club is in no way logical for me to say Zaprešić, Samobor or Velika Gorica are constantly leaning on Zagreb, they are now pushing them into some other administrative unit which is also administratively impossible to agree on. Well, I remember there in '91. the years when the community of the municipalities of Zagreb was abolished and when it was attached to the city of Zagreb today some papers from the grantovnica and catastra have not returned to Velika Gorica but rather somewhere in the air. Thus, one elemental thing is being set up, and someone has promised someone something in constitutional change to adopt constitutional changes. And then, on that basis, some legal proposals began to be made. And then someone didn't realize at the moment that these legislative proposals should be examined, because none of these constitutional changes are available and Croatia is falling into another administrative reform which unfortunately will cost us dearly. Same story as the tax reform. If we had not touched anything, if taxes had remained at 30th of the first year of 2011, we would have a deficit of 6.7 billion kuna and Croatia would not have broken its head because of the excessive deficit. But when you go not critically to do something then you can do the consequences that are inconceivable and these consequences regarding taxes are inconspicuous for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73025	My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, when I mentioned earlier the measures of the Croatian Government, which also in this House, were widely announced among them, it was clear that the ruling had entered the Parliament and with the amendments to the Constitution, constitutional changes which the constitutional changes had planned in Croatia, another regional unit, the region and thus made possible through the Constitution for the regionalisation of Croatia. We discussed these constitutional changes before here, and it seems to me almost three months ago, and that's what I care about, where, what the fate of these constitutional changes is, I don't know anyone. Thus, so much about seriousness, seriousness in approach when Croatia wanted to regionalise, which in a certain way clearly indicates that it was primarily for reasons to get enough hands to be implemented in Croatia constitutional changes. And for this reason clearly that, first of all, you said so, so am I many times, and besides many MPs say if Croatia really intends to regionalise itself, if it really intends to reduce the number of units of regional self-government, if it is indeed intended to reduce the number of units of local self-government of any city or municipality in Croatia, this is not a way, this is not an approach as it approaches it. It is necessary, before this, to establish both financial and economic and historical and all other parameters, the justification of such access and only then to go with the amendments to the State Administration System Act. So these are the advances that are necessary in a normal debate, in a normal one-stop-shop approach, of its territorial and political structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73027	Thank you. Next up for debate Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73028	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the motionors, the distinguished colleagues who are still here, I will try to be as brief as possible, but I say I need to say some things about this, so here we are, and we're up until these very late hours, if we could call these hours, Friday late, yes. I would say firstly that it brings significant rationalisation and increases the operationality of the system in this area in which it introduces changes, therefore, of course, it introduces the system of state administration and the way they work. So I now think that thanks to these changes will be able to hire a clerk who has not, for example, had enough of the work and could not be engaged all the time, now will be able to take over the jobs from, which so far could not be done from other counties. A similar model was already applicable in the judicial system, and I think it showed good results on the example of land-booking things where it is, for example. from land offices in Sibenik could take over office, land-book office in Rijeka and vice versa. And I hope you show up here too... I have no reason to believe he won't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certainly important to move to a better place, to introduce an institute of a single administrative place where citizens can now submit all the requirements that are being addressed at the state administration rate but also to get as far as I understand the document, to receive forms, advice and other assistance. Here, I have to say it's really a very simple and logical solution but a solution that still brings a certain kind of solution, so I would say a mini revolution into our administration system. I'm saying this because the solutions that have been so far have not made it possible for citizens to communicate effectively with the administration, and that was rather a rule rather than an exception, and I think we are now going in the opposite direction which should certainly be welcomed and encouraged to move on in steps and in other rationalizations and improvements. These commendations also relate to the solution that the number of these offices of the state administration comes down from 20 to 5. We listen to legitimate criticism, therefore, that the system of state administration, but not only should the state be simplified and brought first orderly into a smaller number of structural units, making the whole system and the state administration, but also these other systems of administration more flexible, less massive and efficient. This is certainly a step in that direction and I hope it shows a trend that will continue. The introduction of this unique administrative post will certainly contribute to the better service of the administrative apparatus to citizens, and in this similar model, well, it is probably a matter of inter-resorship cooperation, should be established by the other central authorities of the state administration, in particular I think the Ministry of Interior and can, for example, replace the identity card with a new one after the old one expires in any branch. It's been a real problem so far, I don't think there's any reason not to make it possible. But when we introduce this unique administrative place and allow it to be pointed out again for public reasons anywhere in Croatia, we can now get any document that we need, for example. of home offices for which a prerequisite is necessary for this information connection and networking of databases. I don't think it takes much, that's my impression as some layman in the field of information, I don't think it takes much further to allow all requests, applications and submissions to be submitted electronically and processed in the same way, and that the exchange of documents and communication with parties is done in that way if the parties so wish or can. Not long ago, the Law on Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Correction was in the parliamentary procedure. It was technical amendments to these laws, but I think it was a good opportunity to remind ourselves that the Law on Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Correction had been in place for 10 years but unfortunately they had not come across a wider application, in particular they did not come across a wider application here in the field of administration. If we pull the parallel, e-banking has gone into wide use before that period and today with a few mouse clicks we can easily transfer millions if we have them. We can electronically buy and get at home almost everything, from a needle to a locomotive, but we can't yet, unfortunately, by electronic means, request and get a home address, say, an extract from the birth certificate, we can't get a building permit in electronic form yet. The private sector, we must conclude, has long adapted its solutions that are faster, more efficient and better. That means it's possible. Why, for example. Not every citizen would if he wanted to, I'm speaking like that now, I'm saying I'm not an expert in electronic communication, but I'm thinking if, for example, In the bank we get that token, if I can manage without a problem with my account, I don't see why such a principle would not be introduced into the system of administration, state administration and local or regional self-government. More or less when we read those definitions of electronic signature sound very complicated, essentially that token is this simple electronic signature that allows us to have our means on the account. For example, why not enter into an account, sign that token to obtain a copy of the birth certificate and to make an alteration of the identity or communication otherwise with the offices of the state administration or other administrative bodies. We know that in these times, every such cost is considered suspicious, but I think that every investment in this area is profitable and can be... tangible savings and benefits that are greater than investments. I now need to point out one more thing here, partly related to the formation of these 5 offices of the state administration, such as the Office of State Administration 3 of which are the facilities for the Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina, Krapina-Zagorska and Karlova County, which is what has already been discussed before in the debate, the link between the City of Zagreb and the Zagreb County. A series of solutions on the structure of the state administration and the structure of local and regional self-government contributed to the artificial division of Zagreb County and the City of Zagreb. This space is an extremely naturally connected area with a lot of common needs and problems and it is clear, for example. For a long time, Selo or Velika Gorica have much more in common with Zagreb than with Karlovac or Krapina. And with this solution, these places are somehow connected more with Karlovac or Krapina. Of course, in these given circumstances, this is entirely logically the only possible solution, but I think that in future the necessary reflections on the different and efficient division of Croatia into units of regional self-government and better administrative integration of the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County will need to think very much. These areas were always necessarily addressed to each other, connected with unbreakable relationships and are in the interest of these areas to establish a stronger connection between these areas as a unique space of life, but primarily a unique economic area. I believe that this current way of administrative division has not contributed to the better economic development of the entire Zagreb region. The area used to breathe in both demographic and economic terms as a whole, and it was perhaps the industrial engine, the most highly developed industrial area of the entire former state. Okay, that's a story that will probably have to wait, unfortunately, as well as the necessary processes for greater integration at regional level at the level of all of Croatia, and it crosses the frameworks of this law. But I'm saying, I had a need to point that out as my opinion in the direction of regionalisation towards which it should be headed. As far as this Law is concerned, I would like to point out once again that these changes in the system of state administration are welcome. They represent how I said the mini revolution in adapting the work of the Office of State Administration to citizens in improving the flexibility, efficiency of the work of state offices. But I believe that these rationalizations should not be stopped, but should be looked further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73029	Thank you, too. And final address, Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73030	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to thank you gentlemen for your fruitful debate. I am extremely sorry that few people remain truly on this important subject. It seems to me that the topic is extremely important for Croatian citizens as well as for those of us who have been dealing with this profession and this area for many years from now. What seemed important to me to say for the sake of the Croatian public, this House of Higher House repeats that the Law on the System of State Administration, the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on State Service and the Local Service as it is, we can, or local servants, are in fact the backbone of a system and that any intervention in them is in fact a strong intervention no matter how small, demanding intervention it is. Here is the intervention that I would like to call modernization and evolution, rather than strong words, in fact, opens a series of issues that are legitimate and very welcome in the Croatian public, which have been discussed, which have already been repeated by representatives for several hours and related to possible regionalisation or regionalisation of the Croatian state. Of course, that debate will take place next time if it is decided, if this is the country's need. This Law did not have that reach, or at least so it seems to me that he did not, was not directed at it. It was targeted and focused on small repair, improvement of administrative business and administrative functioning of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, I would add a word that I particularly like and which, I think, is very important in the Republic of Croatia, which is that it is not about discontinuity, but about the continuity of interventions in the administrative system. Whether they are always systematic and reformative about it we can really discuss, today there have been enough talk, but the continuity that began among other things and remember one Law on General Administrative Procedure. We've been here a long time, this House has given him a lot of attention a few years ago, and we've achieved an envious degree of consensus thinking, actually considering it as a professional tool for a citizen's improvement officer. In addition, the analysis and the international relations institute commissioned in 2008, she pointed out, is one indication of how to go, how we should go and how we think this is a natural continuation at the moment, but she also pointed out what Agent Bačić said that and I think that it was, that some other MPs were talking about it, and that is that it is only one phase on the way. And it should be seen as a phase on the way to the promotion of the Croatian state administration and gradually not only deconcentration of administrative affairs but also their decentralisation in a way or similar way as it was done in entrusting business to the city of Zagreb. I think that's the future we'll see soon enough. This is one stage in all of this. What this analysis showed was, in fact, that the underestimation of first-degree bodies, the bodies that solve in the first degree, which are closest to the citizens, where the state is closest to the citizens, and therefore somewhere the spiritual movence of this whole process was let's not let it go to intervene even if someone like this was called partial, but in any case, by one measure, by one tool. Similarly, such intervention has been done and in the judicial system, in one large project, administrative courts have been reorganized by very similar logic as we do today with the Offices of the State Administration, it was done in 2010 with similar or the same local jurisdiction. What is good to point out, repeat, to remove the debate from always running to the seats, not to flee to the seats and centres. What I think should be particularly highlighted is the principle, the principle of functioning, functionality, the principle of functionality, the sectoral approach is dominant in this approach and it actually says not the centers or centres are important here. Here it is important to connect business by administrative logic and deal with these metrics either in Dubrovnik, Zadar or Lastovo, solving cases in a quality way but at the same time dislocatedness, i.e. the availability to citizens that they can bear their submissions in their place which is indeed the right centre for it. His only... The main center or municipality of Lopar, which belongs to the main headquarters, is that municipality, in fact, that place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That eventually if possible a unique administrative place. What was the purpose of everything then was to realize that we at that level are not strong enough, we are not administratively strong, we are not capacitated and that we need to strengthen the capacities and connect these professional capacities of the state administration, officers who are so hard to keep in the system in such a way. And that is why it is necessary to keep them and concentrate on doing those jobs in its area in the entire extended local jurisdiction. That's how we win. Those who are weak, the offices that are weaker in this work get or get practical, I think nobody here loses, stronger inaccessibility I said through this danger that I think MP Horvat was saying that the network will not develop, we have a network now. It's just an archaic network in exposures that they wanted to be or were or were trying to be replicas of the state administration's office with all their functions or parent offices have reduced functions. A unique administrative place has exactly the opposite logic of how it is imagined. You can concentrate quality and develop a network system in a deconcentrated administration that's kind of a prerequisite for decentralisation of functions on regional and local self-government. What has not been seen and we have not debated enough but it is certain that the implications of this proposal are coming out of it and in such a way that when we force a first-degree decision to do so and force and second-degreely, we strengthen the role of ministries as central bodies, of course as central bodies and most of those in extremely complex almost court proceedings in second-degree resolution in the ministry. Here we are discharging in this part of the ministry and indirectly reducing and administrative disputes, harmonising the practice of the office in resolving administrative matters and thus achieving another effect which is both debate and show where the answers are expected by the Croatian Parliament between the two readings, and it is expected that the minister and stressed that the seats of these offices will be defined in the second reading. Now we've followed the logic of the so far order to make it a regulation. The debate here has shown that it is necessary to do so by law and will be done by law. What I think Commissioner Bacic was talking about was the danger that the county headquarters, that the regional offices, under the quotes of regional offices, would not so call them to be taken over by former county headquarters, I do not think these dangers due to this sectoral approach and functional approach will be. The question of the title is fully understood and we fully respect this debate that went in the direction that the names are too neutral and that they should be reassessed and that they should be defined more courageously, in fact they should be defined. As for the lack that may have been done in part, the lack of this proposal that the network had to be more powerful, we will do it very well, show between the two data readings and... the network how it will look eventually when this law is implemented. And the question of minority rights doesn't need to be doubted that below the level we reach, we certainly can't and we can't go. This is an important issue that has been opened, and I agree with everyone here as a civil servant for 20 years, 15 years at least to state officials, and I agree that an extremely important debate is always about depolitisation and professionalisation of the system. It must be without sweetness, without planting, simply this solution that was offered and which was alternative in the draft proposals of this law will be reviewed between the two readings and the arguments presented before this House of Commons. Which would bring somewhere near the end, which would bring a continuation and how this process should go after the law. The interventions should be done, we have talked here two times about the interrelationship and entrusted affairs of the city of Zagreb, one extremely complex issue and will intervene in the work of the Law on the City of Zagreb and more about the supervision of the conduct of the affairs of the state administration by the city of Zagreb, entrusted to him. What follows, and what is really very important, is a review of the regional ingenuities and the very existence of the regional units, one part of the ministries and the takeover of power, the real power of the offices, that part of the business and part of the functions take over and manage the state administration. You see, that's, I think, a logical sequence. And in this way, even so, this process I was talking about, and I will not be talking about it any longer, which is almost a prerequisite for the good functioning and development of this network, or for the lives of this network, is a percentage but the faster the information of the system. What is a question and the final one that is being separated, here at least it seems to me that the legislator's intrinsicity was to arrange for the promoter to regulate administrative functions, not in the question of the territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, all the solutions go to this, here at last only to the process of modernization, about one small but important part of it, not more or less. I thank you all for your patience and for your discussion. I'll see you at the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73031	Thank you too, Deputy. I thank both my associates and my associate. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We continue with a session Wednesday with a proposal for a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, First Reading, P.Z. No. 612. Have a nice weekend!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73032	Now we're going to move to decision-making on the final points of the agenda, discussed here in the Parliament. First is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration, first reading, PZ No. 619, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement about the proposed law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 5 abstentions have been reached. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. the proposer of the decision is the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, those shall be the provisions of Article 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The chairman of the board, Honored Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73034	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to paragraph 2. At its 62nd session held on 26 February 2014 following the debate, the Commission decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the next Decision appointing members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. The members of the Committee for Fiscal Policy are named Master Vesna Kasun, representative of the State Audit Office, Dr Daniel Nestic, representative of the Zagreb Economic Institute, Dr Vjekoslav Bratic, representative of the Institute of Public Finance, Dr Ante Žigman, representative of the Croatian National Bank, professor Dr Saša Drezgić of the Faculty of Economics and Dr Natasa Zunic-Kovačević from the ranks of representatives of the Faculty of Law. In the light of the proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, it is clear that the commission consists of presidents and 6 members of the commission, that members of the commission should be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Finance, the state budget for a period of five years and after the term of office may be re-appointed. Members of the commission were elected by secret, public vote and unanimously confirmed because the Faculty of Economics of the University of Zagreb, Osijek, Split in Rijeka proposed their candidates and have the right to one, and the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka have proposed three candidates and have the right to one. The Committee on Budgets and Finance has therefore unanimously proposed these candidates, so I suggest you support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73035	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was taken unanimously by 107 votes in the text as proposed by the applicant. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the National Attorney's Board of Representatives. The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Justice. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading shall apply to the adoption of the Decision. These are the provisions of Articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal, which is the chairman of the committee? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There are no interested, there are. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73037	Thank you very much, Mr. President, members of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council for the 2010 amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are very important places. In Article 125, it reads: "The state's attorney council has 11 members and is composed of 7 deputy state attorneys, two university professors of legal science and two parliamentary representatives of which one of the ranks of opposition.". It says here in the Justice Committee's decision, I don't doubt the committee's good intentions or doubt the proposed candidate, the next thing I know, the place of opposition. It is not only the Croatian Democratic Community but also the HDSSB and laborists and others. He writes: "The Committee launched a procedure for running for a member of the National Attorney's Council at the 31st session of the Committee held on 19 June 2013. A year.". I do not remember a respected colleague and colleagues, do not mind if something has been said to misread it but for important places such as members of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council should be consulted with members of the opposition because the opposition in the Croatian Parliament represents both HDSSB and Labourists and the Croatian Democratic Community. And I am also saying this on the basis of my own experience because I was a member of the State Judicial Council, and I accepted leaving the former party my shift from that council, and I made an oath before the Croatian Parliament, and afterwards, in consultations with the members of the State Judicial Council, it was said that this place belongs to the opposition under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But I didn't object, and I gave it the right then to have a party with the highest number of MPs, and that doesn't say it in the Constitution, I left for personal reasons, and now that things like this are important for the future, we're asking for these important things to be discussed with the opposition. And Mr. President, we disagree that today's vote is due to the need to consult with all parties of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73038	We have replicas. The first replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73039	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Salapic, two weeks ago, there was a debate here exclusively about principles, about nothing else. You who then replicated to me on behalf of the HDZ Club have violated those principles. And it's not correct though I agree with what you said that we understand each other because if the place belongs to the opposition then the opposition... I'll make a deal with him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm talking about principles, humanity has survived on principles and on some kind of arrangement. But we can't interpret politics and behave in this High House as it pleases us at what point. So it's about principle. And I said at the time that I was very embarrassed to argue on the human side, but we just have to stick to the principle. And if you were against that principle then, look at this debate then you have no right out of respect for fellow Milicevic to be a different attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73040	Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73041	Dear Representative Shuker, if you have now mentioned the principle of the appointment of Mrs Kosor to the Committee on Foreign Policy I was not there at the time, I was in Osijek, to remind you. Next, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is not the principle but the basic document and the largest legal act in the country. This Regulation shall enter into force on The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia writes The State Attorney's Council has 11 members and consists of 7 deputy state attorneys, 2 university professors of legal science and 2 parliamentary representatives and one from the ranks of opposition. It's not a principle, it's a fundamental legal document of this country. If the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council are to be referred to as a principle, I'm against it. And to remind you of the other side when you mentioned that you were living on principle, I didn't object to the principle of human beings when you replaced me from the State Judiciary Council because I left the party for human reasons, personal and human. And then I didn't object, and I had the right to be a member of the State Judiciary Council for another two years because I acted with honor in my duty, taking an oath before the Croatian Parliament. I did not object, nor did I ask for it, and the principle is the Constitution, and the Constitution is not the principle but the highest legal act, and if we act as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, then we will respect the Constitution. I stress, I have nothing against Representative Milicevic, I don't know the man, I don't know his qualities and I wish him all the best in life, but this is the Constitution, this is our right, and I, as president of the HDSSB Club, object and ask that this point be removed from the debate because the State's Attorney's Council is not some alternate station but an independent body, one of the very important in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73042	Dear colleague, we have received a legal and legitimate proposal from the working body, the competent working body of the Croatian Parliament and I from this position have nothing to add. I don't participate in consultations, nor do I have the right to participate. We can't do this anymore, I'm sorry. We'll get to the bottom of this. Is there anyone else to discuss? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. There are no others to discuss. I would like to ask the vote to make a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of votes, 98 for, 3 votes against and 5 abstentions, in the text proposed by the applicant. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the HRT Supervisory Board. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The motion for a decision has been made. Does the proposal's representative, the respected representative Branko Vuksic, want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73044	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Just to clarify, it is the principles that, when we talked about the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT, we reached agreement of clubs in the Croatian Parliament and agreed on principles and we stuck to these principles. So, at the previous meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, a decision was taken by majority vote, with one vote abstention, that Mr Mate Radeljic should be the fourth member elected by the Croatian Parliament, member of the Supervisory Board. And I repeat again, all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament agreed on the principles of choosing the Programme Council and choosing the Supervisory Board and the Committee adhered to those principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73045	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. A HDSSB club and respected representative Krešimir Bubalo signed up for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73046	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. In fact, counterpart Vuksic said that every vote when we talk about this Supervisory Board is a matter of principle. Yeah, especially when it comes to a person. It must be moral, must be responsible, and must be such a résumé to fit all parameters and needs of that demanding place. But we at the HDSSB think it's not a matter of principle here, it's a matter of trade, it's a matter of transferring the HDZ-SDP coalition from the city of Osijek to the HRT Supervisory Board, and I believe in these constituencies tomorrow. In fact, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm going to say a few important things that we think are very important before your decision is made. I believe that HDZ and the SDP have sat down on this and agreed on this, but we in the HDZ are not going to support it, and now I'm going to tell you what the reasons are. Namely, anyone who knows Mata Radeljić, and you have a chance to read and read daily.hr from Thursday 30 January, a pidanteria from the biography of the most powerful man in eastern Zagreb, who is actually a powerful spin doctor who will connect Karamark and Milanović. Mate Radeljić, whom Ossetani is called Matan by character from Vrdoljav and Raos's "Foreign and Sons" after 15 years of serving Glavas, Sanader, Vrkić, returns to Zagreb where he will take care of all HDZ campaigns, European and presidential. In addition, as a member of the Supervisory Board, he will control HRT for both Karamark and Milanovic chiefs. In this text, Mato Radeljic, who is the main character of the text, ideological commissioner for all time and all political options, is mentioned. Namely, when journalists describe him, he is a person with fascinating talent for distorting facts, falsifying events, assembly and construction. I'll leave you to read that text, and I'll read you exactly the letter I got from HRT employees. We address you with genuine hope that you will read this letter and take our reflections into consideration. Very quickly, in accordance with the agenda, you will vote on the election of the fifth member of the HRT Supervisory Board. If you can trust the reports of certain media, which are generally accurate information, you parliamentary representatives will select the former Croatian journalist Matu Radeljić. Namely, the Parliamentary Committee for Information, Information and Media published a conversation with three candidates for member of the HRT Supervisory Board, and I am referring to Radeljic as a safe choice. That former journalist is the reason why I am writing this letter to you, hoping that you will read it carefully and consider it carefully before you raise your hand on this agenda item. You're our only hope right now, and we want to believe you'll listen to us and protect the national TV house. Mate Radelić is primarily without exaggeration and exaggeration of persons of dangerous intent. It's about a man who doesn't follow any methods to achieve his goals. In the best way, the workers of all the media in which he worked and so did we at HRT because, in the same pattern, he managed to fight with each other over a short period of time, which took months after his departure until normal human relations were established. Its unscrupulousness, hypocrisy and insidiousness is probably best spoken of by the fact that Mate Radeljić was fired after he received a letter literally written on the port even entering the premises of the Osijek HTV studio in 2000. There are documents in that TV study about this. From the period Radeljić's bossing in HTV studio Osijek also connects affairs about setting up the apartment through free advertising of certain companies. Namely, Radeljić bought an apartment in Osijek that was to be arranged, and for the next few months in various informative shows, reports from Osijek companies that for the benefit of Radeljić pointed out things to edit the apartment on the street of the Croatian Republic. Radeljic changed several bosses during his journalistic and PR career, but with all of them he kept the same principle of work. First a servant's relationship, then a run to the second camp and a chase at a recent employer. Radeljić served Franji Tudjman, Ivo Sanader, Jadranka Kosor, Branimir Glavas, Anti Djapic, and his last employer, the controversial Osijek entrepreneur Željko Biloš, owner of local Osijek television. Along with the latest Radeljić's boss, affairs about tax evasion at his company Old, but also the leak of information and information for service reasons, which is why he was recently arrested. Radeljic was recently the director of the mentioned Osijek TV, which was the subject of an investigation into the trial of Ivo Sanader in the Fimi-Media case due to the purchase of equipment through black funds. Although Radeljic is currently the head of the Office of Mayors of Ivica Vrkic, it is not a secret that he is preparing to go to Zagreb where he would run HDZ's pre-election campaign for Europarliamentary, presidential and parliamentary elections, and the election at the HRT Supervisory Board will be a bouncy tool for carrying out these campaigns. It is known how Radeljić is one day seen at the site of the editor-in-chief or director of HRT. That, according to our deep conviction, would be the final failure of the public service. We hope that you will take seriously our allegations that you can very easily check by talking to any journalist who has worked with Mato Radeljić at any time. You are our last hope at this time that we will be able to protect HRT from the entry of people whose main way of working is to plant, argue and bring discord between those disrupted relations within the HRT. Croatian Broadcasters. Namely, I want to remind you of the material in front of you. One of the pages is the work booklet Mate Radeljić where he worked at HDZ from 1.11.2004 to 3.2.2005, a man who changed more parties than HDZ, DC, HDZ, HDZ, Djapic, etc. I don't know if he's in HDZ or SDP right now, but he's probably in HDZ. Therefore, he has changed a lot of these parties, but in this material that we have received, which was delivered on 31.12.2013, Mate Radeljić complements the tender documentation and says: "Respected, I am delivering an updated résumé in connection with the selection of members of the HRT Supervisory Board carried out on 16 December 2013 with the tender documentation that I sent on 27 December 2013." So 3 days after Mato Radeljic remembered that he didn't write that he worked at HDZ, and by chance we have a work book where he was seen working at HDZ. Well, I'm curious now whether he works at HDZ, and he needs to get paid in the SDP or what's the reason that we have Mat Radelic on the agenda today. There are a lot of these questions that we're asking ourselves today and what are the reasons why we don't have the names and other candidates listed in the material for this very important place on HRT. After the resignation of Ms Vesna Kusin was submitted on 14 June 2013, only the December 2013 contest was opened, but when we look at this very name that is proposed better that the Supervisory Board should not receive that member, because we are aware of what results HRT will have at the end of this year and especially next year. But we witnessed after discussions and unpaid taxes on HRT during HDZ rule almost 120 million kuna and results at the end of last business year. It's probably in order to make HRT even more scattered, to make HRT even worse, for HRT to really not be a public service, what is needed. Therefore, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I urge you once again to reconsider your conscience, but also read these texts that I was talking about about Mata Radeljić. The HDSSB won't support this. Here is not just a matter of principle, here is a question of morality and how a person should come to the Croatian Supervisory Board for which we should raise our hands in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73047	Thank you, Your Honor. Before we go to replicas, I would like to say for your sake and the Croatian public what you read the esteemed representative letter to us unknown letter bearer, you stood behind those words, do you understand, so no one else because we know nothing about the letter, we didn't get it, you gave it to the Croatian public and it is your responsibility. And now we're going to the replicas, the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73048	Dear colleague, you have succeeded in bringing HDZ and SDP together in your presentation. The only thing that kills you this time is that you don't have the last word. It means nothing to you, not even practically unanimous decision by the board, but you are not telling the truth that the contest was called within 12 months because the tenders were previously cancelled. You forget that the candidates were invited to present themselves for a conversation, they had the right to talk about it. And you don't say anything about the duties of a candidate who will be elected to the Supervisory Board. Before that, you should consult the HRT Act, see what is being assessed about the proposed candidate, and then say whether someone fulfils the conditions or does not meet the requirements. The main motive for you is that you have old personal accounts related to the proposed candidate and you completely forget that those bodies that have been selected in this House by such consensus as the President of the Committee, which is the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, have better reports and give better results than those that have not been selected. I also remind you that the HDSSB was involved in inter-party agreements when the selection of individual candidates was organised and it was highly respected what the representatives said. This way to push it, in this way for a payphone as a partial political interest, not to mention neither the duties nor the laws but to talk about something personal, personal life, and from a personal cancer and a personal view, says that you do not care about HRT, but that you only respect HRT when you have the opportunity to judge it. You've been eliminating this choice for weeks, not allowing... on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73049	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73050	Thank you very much. You asked a nice question about the HDZ and SDP Coalition, so it's not just in Osijek, we have an example to see in Dubrovnik and some other areas, it's probably a pilot project for what follows after the next parliamentary elections. But just listening to you and reading the law, Article 22 where the rules are defined and what that applies and what kind of person it must be to really be elected to the HRT Supervisory Board for this reason HDSSB and I, on behalf of the club, have just talked about that it is not a matter of principle but of skill, ability, and above all the morality of a person elected to a particular supervisory board. But the other day we were discussing the HRT report, 120 million kuna of unpaid taxes, just from the time you were Minister and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73051	The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bubalo, I am very surprised by the level or the low level of your debate. I believe you have not heard or disobeyed, so I will repeat to you what the President of the Committee has said, that the proposed candidate has met all the conditions that have been issued by a public invitation. I regret that you are not referred to the authority of the HRT Supervisory Board or that members of the HRT Supervisory Board actually have to work. In a very ugly way, you've allowed yourself to deform a person who may not even know our colleagues or most of them, and they've all agreed on such a decision together, as you've heard. If you knew any of this, then you were guilty of not acting in other situations sooner than when it comes to a political stage this kind of thing so as to politicize it in your own favor and promote only you known interests and desires. Comrade Bubalo, you obviously don't like Mata Radeljić, it's clear to everyone now. You're acting like an abandoned young man and in a jealous outburst here you're talking about Mr. Radelic. That's what it felt like to me. So, you don't like Mate Radeljić, you're jealous, so please refrain from these comments and leave politics for another stage. When you list political parties and you could say a lot about them, who's when, where he's gone and where he's been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73053	Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73054	Thank you very much. Fellow Members, we do not have what to love or not to love, but just when a person is to be appointed, it is always necessary to look at his life’s path, his morality, and his values in order for someone to reach a certain place. Well, you probably couldn't have been HDZ spokeswoman anymore, but you didn't meet certain criteria. So it's an important thing that man meets certain criteria but you just mentioned that you were surprised by the low level of my debate. So I think it's much more important than who chooses exactly that low level of low passion but also those things and claims that I made in my debate just reading the part that I was talking about when we talk about the articles being presented but also what the journalists say. Anyone who knows that person can accurately confirm that it is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73055	Thank you very much. Now it is up to the respected representative Jasen Mesic on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73056	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, here at the time of Friday's vote, no matter what practically a month ago we had this decision on the Media Committee where it was practically unanimous. I'll remind you why it's important to fill the bodies on HRT. When the 2010 law was amended, based on a political consensus, when amendments and amendments were passed and before them the main motive was not to fill empty spaces on the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council in order to prove that the law was not working, so as to prove that HRT is not doing well, in order to be accused of indifference and crime, regardless of the people who were responsible for the implementation of the business policy afterwards became directors of the state agency, for example for investments or temporary managers in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. And these people here in the Croatian Parliament have been accused of running unworthy politics on HRT. For 6 months, it was not intended to elect members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board to block their work and to go to the amendments and amendments of the law on the platform without discussion of previous reports. If someone here broke the law, then it was the competent ministry and the government because we didn't fill those places and it was a crime compared to the existing law that could change most of the votes in parliament, but while the old ones were in force they had to respect it and they didn't. Why do we want the Supervisory Board to be in full composition and to function? So precisely because, in the previous debate on the HRT, the management of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board's reports, which were elected to such a consensus and the party parliamentary agreement, were the best reports and, most of them, representatives and representatives of all clubs referred to that part and here sought a foothold for the development of HRT and the calming of the situation on HRT. Why do we want a complete Supervisory Board? So that we may once again come to the opportunity that when the votes of the Supervisory Board show mistrust to the Director, we can discuss this again in Croatia. That's why we want the full composition of the Supervisory Board, because according to the new law on HRT, they are given powers on the basis of which we require them to do so and now is the completion of the Supervisory Board is actually turning their heads from the situation on HRT. Because in its first meeting, the Supervisory Board came into conflict with the Chief Director over the statutes where the increased financial limits on which the Director-General can decide on its own initiative, up to 10 million kuna. Because they are announced by the Ministry of origin that HINA will be financed from the subscription of HRT, i.e. from the fee which is illegal and we want the Supervisory Board on HRT to be able to discuss it and, if necessary, intervene. That's why we want a complete Supervisory Board. Because in the first quarter of 2013, it was raised from 120 million kuna for the purchase of equipment that was to be spent already in the 6th month of 2013, which was not. That's why we want a complete Supervisory Board. Because the restructuring programme was to be implemented in the 5th month 2013 according to the Director-General's programme, and it is not, and that is why we want the Supervisory Board to be complete and to discuss it. Because 31.11. the Director-General announced that it has a profit of 95 million kuna, if so, in accordance with the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, Article 12 is to make all payments within 30 days unless there is a special contract, then up to 60 days. If that's true, then it's all right, and if it's not in accordance with Article 86c of the same law, we're looking for financial supervision on HRT that will first be presented to the Supervisory Board to see it. If someone in plus 95 million kuna is a month before the end of the year, does he meet the legal obligations made by this government? We're looking for financial supervision, that's what we were looking for when there was a report here at HRT. I believe you'll all support us on this. We are also looking for supervision of the increase in pay coefficients for individual journalists in individual newsrooms, above all in the information service. Which is why, why and how when it is called for restructuring at the same time and when correspondence is abolished. That would be something I was expecting to intervene with my colleagues from the HDSSB. 2012, this is just a policy that continues and in mid-2012 when 40 people were changed in 2 weeks and in that second half of 2012, according to the reports we saw we had a drop of 20% of the production of software content, we had a 4% salary increase, which means that without any criteria, the increased salaries were distributed to individual people and we also had the division of office functions, we had a delay in running the third and fourth channels and we had a conflict of statutes. That's why we want to complete the HRT Supervisory Board. So just so it doesn't happen that certain debts that are most created are re-created, they know well what age and period of term of office. Since I deeply believe that the political consensus when it comes to HRT is, for this reason, and we respect from the beginning to the end of the principle that the chairman of the Media Committee has also laid down, which is that we have strictly adhered to the agreements between the parties in Parliament and how to approach the selection of individual members of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. And during the Committee's work, we have reviewed the professional criteria that were sought in the competition. Where is the importance of HRT for Croatian society if we absorb only an information programme where we try very often to attach? It is an economic stopper of a fully audiovisual sector because the software content in their production and supply goes to over 300 million kuna every year. If you compare that the entire film production of the state leaves a little over 30 million in the budget, and here 15% of the total fee must go, then you realize what is the possibility and development of audiovisual industry and economic development and economic activity, and thus also a platform for producing something that will preserve cultural identity. It's a taste problem, and that's why, among other things, HRT is important, and not because of this one, this one was here, this one was doing this or this one doing that, we've known him since then, we've known his father, we know his best man and everything. This is our goal, and that is why we are ultimatically seeking to fill in the Board of Supervisors. And we have asked for this before and it has been shown in the programme council whose report was best here in the Croatian Parliament regarding how to work quality on the basis of political consensus and the choice of people who supported different political groups. In this sense, the HDZ club will support this choice, precisely because when you look at the resume that you can see that the criteria are absolutely met. Keep your colleagues and colleagues in mind that we tried to highlight this opportunity so that we would not later be sorry that we were late in some of our activities or because we may not have had opinions such as the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, in its 2012 opinion, was unable to say whether it had a positive or negative opinion and had a neutral opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73057	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73058	First, Mr. Mesic, I think you didn't need this at all right now. If you've assessed in the party that Mr. Bubalo has personally spoken to someone in his speech, then personally, it's not HDZ, and now you've shown your speech that it is. And now I'm going to tell you something from principle and every time I answer, and I have experience where I've been and I'm not going to say that I've defected, but I've gone because of the lowest level of humanity and not the principle. First, in principle, where do you get the right to speak in this way and the other candidates who have applied for a member of the Supervisory Board are quality people, and then if the quota is just politics, if politics can tell who is the best quality, no matter what, then let him give a personal assessment that he says what he wants, if you have assessed that he is a personal appraisal. Secondly, let the Supervisory Board and the Government of the Republic of Croatia take care of Croatian television because I was there last night that building, given the principle... that not only Sanader ended up in prison, needed many more, let that building turn into a prison because there will be no place for prison in the Republic of Croatia. That building on Prisavlje is suitable for one great prison for all those who had "principles", and give the money the people pay for a subscription to build an adequate space for all HRT employees. Here's a proposal from the HDSSB. And secondly, when it started out like this today, it went straight to the end. Last week, you discussed with Jadranka Kosor whether the former Prime Minister who put 90% of you here in the House should be a member of a non-paid committee and where he shows his will to work and the principle of the State Attorney's Council. If it says here that you've consulted all the club representatives, and no one's asked us anything, and then it says in a memo from the HDZ Representatives Club, that's what decided. Is that a principle? And now next time we'll talk about the principles we keep quiet about, and there's a lot of them if that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73059	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73060	My dear colleague, you spoke of something I didn't mention one word. I have told you all the time that our position is related to HRT, I have apostrophe of what is important to us and why we want to fill in, not mentioning any single name and asking you for support for those views, so that the Croatian Supervisory Board will function because Croatian citizens' money is a respected colleague. And I couldn't look as focused as you are, but I tried to list the arguments that you've obviously heard, and they're very important, and they'll be waiting for us in the future, and they'll show up at your desk, sooner or later, maybe in the next HRT report that we need to talk about. You're telling me why you went to me in the replica, I'm telling you about filling out the board of directors. Well, it's a respected colleague of yours, yours in some way and your decision. I really don't think I should discuss it when filling out the HRT Supervisory Board, so I'm sorry, maybe one day a documentary movie or something like that is being made. But that's not the point. Even so, if the subject is the selection of members of the Croatian Board of Supervisors in the Croatian Parliament, do you think HDZ should not report to discuss this after all but rather listen to what you are passing on to us from individual anonymous letters. I have so many from HRT and about many, and many from your party could be read on portals and in individual letters, where they would arrive. We want to fill out the supervisory board for the arguments I presented to you. And I believe you'll appreciate it if you don't want to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73061	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73062	Thank you very much. You said that the decision was reached unanimously. The Committee has not made a unanimous decision and it would be logical to see the life of other opponents, that the Croatian Parliament can make better decisions on these names. However, you spoke in your discussion and on the restructuring of HRT, and that was exactly what should have been done during your term of office while you were Minister of Culture or at least started in that term. But what's important, there's no expertise here, we see failure here. I thought in your presentation you might say something about Fimi-media and what I mentioned, and I also said in my debate. But what I can say based on your discussion will certainly make you a good actor in this film you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73063	Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73064	My dear colleague and against some of your members, I expected you to mention in your debate some procedures that are being conducted and investigative actions if you already have an account clearance. The restructuring is never carried out in the last year of the term of office, especially not in one of the biggest public enterprises that is extremely sensitive. And imagine that about six months before the elections, someone started to restructure Croatian radio television. Imagine he started it. What would that... and political recommendations are caused in public, so of course, because that's not how it's done at the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've only quoted you as the director-general's program, which you're protecting from the supervisory board. Don't you let the board of directors, the board of directors, discuss it in full, because it's obviously in your best interests. So his program clearly lists these dates for which, by the way, the 120 million kuna loans that were on the monitoring board for which we have no information, and I guess we'll get them when we have the 2013 schedule. As far as the board is concerned, I repeat my colleague to you, interviews have been held for each function. There are résumés, you can get them, there have been good candidates and who have failed to pass any previous elections or current elections. But simply mostly, I said almost unanimously, I think there were six votes for and one abstention, almost unanimous, I apologize if I said it wrong. Therefore, the next candidate was proposed in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73065	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club, the respected Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73066	After coming forward, respected counterpart Krešimir Bubal and after his finding that Mr Mate Radeljić is a proposal stemming from HDZ and SDP's co-operation, I am obliged to say the following, what I am saying, I am speaking for the public to know the truth, primarily because of the SDP voters. So they don't stay confused after this finding. Mate Radeljic has absolutely nothing to do with the SDP or any co-operation between the SDP and HDZ. It is elected as a member of the supervisory board from the ranks and on a parliamentary minority proposal. The parliamentary minority in this House is made up of HDZ, HDSSB and Labourists. The SDP has never been and will not arbitration within the parliamentary minority they will propose. They won't do it because of democratic principles. Because if the parliamentary minority has the right to make its proposal, it is because the parliamentary minority can never vote on that proposal unless the parliamentary majority agrees. Therefore, as long as the SDP is parliamentary, the majority will respect the democratic right of the parliamentary minority to present, it proposes its candidate. It is about like when it is elected, not roughly, but exactly the same as when the vice-presidents of the parliamentary minority are elected. The SDP may have no objection to the proposals but will vote on those proposed by the parliamentary minority. We had, we could have had reasons to, for example. We are not voting for Mr. Culk because in his last term as parliamentary representative he threw a bottle at his colleague today's Minister Bauk. One completely unparliamentary behavior and enough reason for this man to never be elected Vice President of the Parliament, we have not arbitration. We haven't arbitration because it's a proposal for a parliamentary minority and it can suggest whoever it wants. So you gentlemen from the parliamentary minority, HDZ, HDSSB, Labourists, please choose to agree on whom you propose, we will accept it. But Mr. Bubalo, in the public interest and in the interest of defending the dignity of the SDP and democratic principles, don't do it because you had a fight with the HDZ, don't transfer it to the SDP, it's just not fair and it's not true. It's not fair, it's not true. Therefore, agree, we as the parliamentary majority of each of your candidates will accept but do not force us into arbitration and do not force us when the legitimate proposal of a parliamentary minority comes and when we accept it do not accuse us of some kind of cooperation,... It has absolutely nothing to do with HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying this first of all for the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73067	Now on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73068	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would continue to present Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Stazic, who has fully explained what this is about. I'll just further explain, specifically explain. This is a parliamentary minority proposal, however, a parliamentary minority has won one seat on the Supervisory Board, the right to decide on one place, and this place has belonged to the HDZ. It didn't belong to the Laburists or the HDSSB. But when we negotiated the principles, then HDSSB raised his hand for one place to belong to HDZ. So he agreed to it and then Mr. Buric was at that meeting and Mr. Buric agreed to it. After that, there is no practice for two and a few years, and as long as I have followed the Assembly before, to discuss board members, not particularly in this way, which is proposed either by the majority or minorities. You know it's a principle we all vote for when we agree on it. That's how parliaments work. If there is no agreement then the parliamentary majority will decide everything and all committees will be composed of the parliamentary majority. They have, then, no opposition, then the opposition is not needed in the Croatian Parliament, as in any other parliament. So all members, outside members of the board in the Croatian Parliament were voted here in the Croatian Parliament on the same principle. And what the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament said, so also the vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament are elected. It means that no, the Programme Council was chosen in this way, and in the Programme Council, the HDSSB had one candidate who was adopted by the votes of all. Here's an additional explanation. I won't waste any more of your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73069	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the respected representative of Kresimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73070	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vuksic, thank you for pushing the max out. Namely, Mato Radeljic is not a candidate for either Labourist or HDSSB, but he is just a member of the HDZ sign of the future HRT Supervisory Board. Therefore, it cannot be said that the man is ahead of the opposition, in front of the HDSSB neither was Buric at any meeting where he would vote for Mata Radeljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73071	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73072	Let me explain. I'm not saying I didn't say before that Mr. Buric, as president of the HDSSB club, was at a meeting that voted on Mata Radelic but was at a meeting where a minority of parliament agreed on principles and accepted the principle. When you accept that principle, I don't think it's right to step on it. You have the right to your intervention and I agree with your right. Is the way okay, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-28-0.u73073	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions, have been decided to appoint a member of the HRT Supervisory Board, in the text proposed by the applicant.
