ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88235	I'd like to thank the president, the honourable MPs, the MPs. I would like to briefly say something about this proposal of the Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia from 2014 to 2020. So what was the basic motive was that it was actually some form of state intervention or state policy aimed at improving the business environment and towards those areas or sectors or technologies that are expected to contribute more to both economic growth and employment. Through an analysis of the state of the Croatian industry, we wanted to identify the basic problems of the Croatian industry, put forward a proposal to improve the business environment in order to create better conditions and business for all actors within the industry and identify those industrial activities that have the greatest perspective of further growth and development, and further facilitate and encourage further growth by a special group of measures. As part of the development of the Industrial Strategy, we have done a whole series of analyses, I think thousands of pages in play, from macroeconomic environments, natural human resources, quantitative and qualitative analyses, and now what key focus was processing and construction, information and communication. Furthermore, we have also analysed the EU strategic document and ultimately defined the model for the evaluation and grouping of key industrial activities. Of course we had to parallelly always connect with key EU documents. The analysis and identification of key industrial growth specifics and the systematicisation of these results can conclude that these labour productivity, fixed capital investment, share of highly educated workforce, investment in research and development and exports. Based on all the above-mentioned analyses in the strategy according to the profitability criteria, output orientations, size of activity, key industrial activities have been identified which have the highest capacity for growth, employment and development. I will tax them here: production of basic pharmaceutical products and preparations, production of computers and computing and optical products, production of finished metal products, computer programming, consulting and related activities, etc. ACT, production of electronic equipment, machines, devices, production of food products and furniture production. We also recognized this important role in the production of food products, meaning food industry, processing industry and furniture. In the Croatian economy as strategic, although according to the evaluation criteria they do not go as a whole with their activities in the group so-called. Named triggers. We also left all possibilities to assign the status of the driver to all the vertical measures identified by the Industrial Strategy after the annual audit has been established that results have been achieved for the transition through the engine group and with these industries. Just a little clarification about that, 80% of the proposed measures are horizontal, so they go to all industries and we're 20% are the vertical ones that will concentrate exclusively on the group so-called. the driver of these key development potentials. As the main strategic objectives of the Industrial Strategy, we have defined the repositioning of identified strategic activities on the global value chain. So the key goals of growth are the volume of industrial production at an average annual rate of 2.85%. We made three scenarios, we showed you all three, we chose the real middle not to go to pessimism or even to over-optimism. I will remind you in the first seven months of this year, although according to this industrial strategy the planned growth of industrial production was in 2014. 1% and 2015. 1%. We in the first seven months of this year have 2% growth, so we're in those plans as we've realistically estimated growth... Industrial production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The growth of the number of new employees, in the case of this growth, we return to the 2008 volume around 2020,... so... said at these levels. If a good part of that growth is based on these activities as assessed by the mathematical model, so... secondly, we expect 86 thousand new employees in industry by 2020, these are jobs that we lost in the industry of all previous years, starting in '08, '09, '10, etc., etc. until 2013 as well. Of course the condition that the minimum in these 86 thousand new employees should be 30, the share of highly educated is 30%. Labour productivity growth is almost 70% because we have a lot of productivity problems in a number of industrial branches, but not in those that are drivers and that are identified as strategic. And, of course, an increase in exports during that period by 30%. In this year, we already have growth within the foreseen numbers in this strategy and change of course the structure of exports in favour of high value added products. 4 are key areas of action defined by the strategy. It defines the achievement of the objectives, which is the creation of a stable investment environment, the promotion of strategic cooperation between industry and the education system, the restructuring of public administration and administration and the development of the capital market. For each of these... areas, a number of concrete measures have been defined to realise the objectives set, as well as proposals to create assumptions for implementation in order to achieve the planned objectives. I've got a lot more dry stuff maybe text, but I'll concentrate on three more key messages. The first is, we had a public debate, we opened a public and professional debate that lasted two months. We visited all the counties in Croatia in collaboration with... and.... There were a total of about 2,000 people who participated in a public and professional debate at these meetings, of which at least 90% of the businessmen. They suggested, we talked to them, very affirmatively their approach and also proactively in a way that they wanted to help make the final document. After that two-month tour of all the counties, the whole logistics of gathering these people with their proposals that had partly entered the text, we partly explained ourselves, we talked to a diplomatic assembly, with colleagues from Austrian chambers, presented from German. I'm personal, for example. was at some meetings, let's say colleagues from... were at our place so they sought an industrial strategy, I said that now is still in the phase of the government and parliament procedure, but without an industrial strategy they do not have strategic considerations in the performance of any region because they want to see which measures and which is the focus of any of the states, so they also supported the adoption and very clearly said, too bad we didn't do it years ago. All of them were one conclusion, about all of this, diplomatic choirs, chambers of commerce,..., businessmen, nearly 2,000 were interested in coming, a few hours with us talking about an industrial strategy, means they have motive to talk about it very openly. It was a similar conclusion to all of us, which is that there is finally one document that speaks in which direction the Croatian industry should go, an analysis has been made where we are today... told the truth as it is and which is subject of course, after... the adoption of any new measures, new sectors that may show that in some coming years, given regional, European or global movements something else should be under special attention or something of the existing, will no longer be at that level of potential growth. I ask you honourable representatives to pay attention to the measures, I think that we are the perfect measures that we want... in an industrial strategy we can only do if we all together, I say the economy and the legislative authority and the executive authority discuss it, they say their own. We have had the opportunity to get your proposals and about the measures and around the entire industrial strategy and during the public debate, but I believe there is still room for measures that can encourage industry growth and can be adopted to, no matter which government was at any time and no matter which minister which minister was when he ran, the measures that are being adopted as a strategic document in the next 7 years refer to employees of the industry,... which expect that the realization of these strategies will bring 86 thousand new employees and if you have any, in the debate of this proposal, you have had the opportunity through public debate, but if you have any proposal measures that could help the development of the industry, we are open to all proposals. There, the industrial strategy is the goal, to confirm the strong determination of both the government and the ministry in order to concentrate on the processing industry... I mean, we all knew a lot about it to talk about and praise it and to say that it was important, but we never had a strategic document that would precisely define the direction of that processing industry. Here, so introductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88236	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have reports of replicas. Honorable representative, Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88237	Mr. Minister, you said that one of the objectives of this strategy, as far as employment or jobs are concerned, is to reach the level of 2008. From 2008 to today, 160 thousand jobs have been lost in the industry, and this strategy by 2020, I envision "86 thousand new jobs". There is a big difference between new jobs and new jobs. So it is not your claim that this strategy should result in the number of employees or the compensation of lost jobs at the level of 2008, half as much as half as possible. And secondly, you said this was a form of state intervention in the economy industry actually. Your colleague, French Economy Minister, told Europe it needs a new European new deal, and in order for him to be an effective brother to 300 billion euros. In your strategy it says this is a quote "Realization of the Industrial Strategy does not involve significant allocations of budgets for its implementation", so you rely on capital whose, I suppose, banks, and banks are nowhere to be found here. This is not a strategy, this is not a Croatian new deal, this is about a list of state desires that someone else should make.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88238	The reply to the replica, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. About numbers if you can just concentrate a little better on losing 160 jobs is in the whole industry. This is the processing industry, it's part of the entire industry. This means it is not energy, mining, according to the NKD, so these are the European Commission and EUROSTAT rules. It's not what Vrdoljak invented or could afford, so just pay attention to it. But you can't even tie up, I was saying that we should come to industrial processing production in 2020-2008.With more productivity, we'll have fewer employees in those sectors where we used to have more employees at the same level of production. We're going to raise our competitiveness, we're going to have more productivity and absolute numbers in the number of jobs can't be repainted from 2008. There's a mathematical model that's been applied here, and that's why sometimes the numbers look a little bit more precise... to confirm the use of a model that predicts productivity growth, competitiveness, the growth of the processing industry, and then on that model, you get that number, and not to go back to 2008, and it doesn't even cover all of this that you've just said because it's simply not covered by the strategy. As for the source of funding for the realisation of the strategy, you have it in measures and what you're saying is a problem for all of us. There should not be a particularly great scientist in Croatia to say that we do not have a capital that can, with a competitive price, help our industry and the government must certainly find models with new equivalent funds, here is how we are talking about finding models, which are through measures, which is why I said the measures are very important and the concentration should be in this debate, how to finance the implementation of the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88240	Thank you very much, Minister. A new replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88241	Thank you very much. Mr. Ministers of Strategy are popular in different sectors these days, but I am genuinely interested in the measures that you have already underlined several times that whatever you are aiming to achieve will happen. And this list of measures is worrying. He says first, "To bring a legal regulation that will ensure stability of the business environment." And what are you going to bring? A law forbidding the adoption of new laws. You're making it easy to invest in transfer and technology without a profit tax for 10 years. So we have an Investment Encouragement Act in which we have a detailed incentive system for all of the various forms you mention here, but the problem is that entrepreneurs are very difficult to come into a position to realize these incentives. You mention the contributions and the release of the employment contribution. And that's what we have in the Employment Encouragement Act. These measures that you're proposing in Chapter 1 are to the greatest extent we have. And what does it mean to be particularly taxed on wages made by working abroad? So we're interested in the wages and jobs that will be achieved here to export, not the people who work abroad, and the special system of taxation of foreign incomes. And then head 3, and that's an increase in the efficiency of the public administration. Minister, whoever wrote this to you has to pay you back the money because it exists and the government has proposed a strategy for the development of a public administration that unresponse with your deadlines. You are talking about the system of evaluation, reorganization of work first quarter 2015. The Ministry of Management of the second quarter of 2017. So I suggest you ministers maybe pay attention to the independent proposals that solve your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88242	The reply to the replica, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88243	I haven't noticed what the replica was on my opening performance, but I'm going to try and answer my head over my head here for a while. So in 2015 in the first quarter I can offer through the Ministry of Economy a pilot project, let's say we can in the first quarter,... per employee. In order to have a basis for me to go to the Civil Service Act, I need to adopt some strategic documents and talk to my colleagues and employees. Can we do that in the first quarter of all the ministries and in all the public bodies, so people, so you were ministers, so you were all more or less the majority that you were sitting there so you know how long it would take. My suggestion is to make a pilot project, I'll give myself a project, and it's executable. No matter what... the ultimate goal, I can start with the pilot project before and if I'm ambitious to stop at the goal you can say that I'm not in line that it's easier for me to wait in '17. As for the other measures you listed in Chapter 1, thank you for reminding me, the Ministry of Economy has passed the Investment Encouragement and Investment Act, and if anyone knows better this law because we are implementing it, because we have passed it, we are implementing it at the expense of this law many new jobs have been opened which unfortunately have been lost by some historical governments. And of course we're going to put these measures in that law here so that someone doesn't think to change them tomorrow. These are measures by 2020. There will be some wicked governments, some governments that have historically appeared in Croatian history who have done such a job that have led to a fall of six, seven, and I don't know a percent. So don't grab hold of the text in a sentence referring to the measures that have been implemented today. Of course they've been implemented, and it's up to you to try once you suggest a measure like I said in the introduction. Offer me a measure. I haven't heard from you a single measure, but the fact that a measure has been written by this government, this ministry has introduced that we have an ambitious 2015 plan with a pilot project. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88244	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88245	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, it's very unusual for you to explain the historical document as you call it in your opening exposé by 10 minutes. But this artisan to put it this way, which does not even apostrophe the state in which Croatia is located. The second thing, these wicked governments, if I'm not mistaken from 2004 to 2008, had an average economic growth of 4%. And the other thing, the main problem with this document is that you didn't draw a clear line after 2008. Because in 2008, you had a large number of employees and a small unemployment and a balanced budget. And then there was an economic crisis all over the world, and she did in Croatia what she did in industrial production. However, what is crucial in this strategy was also the framework for economic development, not strategies etc. So they predicted something. Don't brag about the instruments that were introduced 12 or 13 years ago, because getting rid of the profit tax is a relief that's old. Look at you, you don't need to read the papers, I'll tell you. Over 75 million investments and over 60 employees, 10 years are not paid profit tax. New employees, so if you hire a new employee, you don't pay a health contribution, etc. These are the measures that led to what we had in 2008. So don't defend yourself on every criticism. But I repeat, unfortunately this strategy does not accept the state in which Croatia is located, and that is crucial if you produce something to which market you will sell it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88246	Replica reply, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88247	So, I didn't see again that there was a replica on my exposure, because at any point in the exposure I didn't say that it was... Can't I just, so if you can do a little courtesy? [[You can't hear them.]] So, I at no time, listen to the video I didn't say it was a historical document, fellow Shuker. So I didn't say for a moment that it was a historical document. So, a little more concentration and if you can suggest for some measures and if you can. I don't mean to defend, so I said help the people, so make suggestions. Well, we've had months of public debates, and we've been to your colleagues' houses. We called the assembly clubs, so give us some suggestions. Well, they are, so why don't you tell us what measures it is, otherwise there's one change to a few of those measures that we don't have a limit on investment in corporate tax exemptions. It's that change small, but so irrelevant. Someone can come in tomorrow and stop it. We downloaded the limit that was set to it, that's the difference that you said it was a measure of. It's not the same, it's a little different, there's no limit. So to everything, there's no limit that's been set. So just a little more concentration. It's not a historical document I didn't say. Some measures have been repeated in order not to be abolished, some new proposals. And if you have the content that needs to be inside, which will help industry rather than personal politics, I'm willing to put it in tomorrow, just to hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88248	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Đuro Popiè, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you said historically or not, but you said that this document was actually a strategy that Croatia was long waiting for. So here I am really going to try to help you and tell you that out of what you are, what you think is the strategy to take advantage of it and return it to those authors who tried to call it a strategy and take advantage of this set of quality data and finally make a strategy. So, from 380 pages or how many there are, 80% of this document essentially convinces analytical and statistical data from various institutions in different ways of the State Statistics Institute, the Croatian National Bank, the FINA, whom not everything. So it's a useful document, but that document can't be called a strategy. If it is, because that analysis itself and everything that is written here, and the authors themselves are fenced by it because they said in one sentence that they actually took it, but they don't guarantee the accuracy of that data, so my God, we can't even put our hand in the fire that everything that is derived from it is true, and there's incorrect data at the end if someone reads it carefully. And if the result of all this is a few sides at the end of the text of the strategic goals of the Croatian industry in 2014 and 2012 it can really not be called a document that can tell the Croatian economy, the Croatian industry where to go. And if the result is that we are told that a stable investment environment should be created, that public administration should be restructured, the development of the capital market, that education and industry should be connected. Well, that shouldn't have waited that long. Well, that's what everyone says today and the sparrows sing on the branch. This is not a strategy and this is not what could be used from all of this data contained in this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88250	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88251	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Shuker, before you, said we didn't determine where we were, and now you're saying there's too much analysis. And we've decided on some volume of analysis, one of you fits, one of you doesn't fit, I give myself and my colleagues the discretionary right to need a very serious analysis of the situation and that it should be in such a strategic document. And as I'm saying, I'm going to say again, I think as much paper as you need to say that some strategic document I witnessed hundreds, maybe a few thousand strategic documents, a lot of paper without exact measures. So if we can agree on measures, we're going to need five sides that will realise the human strategy and employ tens of thousands of people whoever runs which government. So if the main grudge is the amount of parties in analysis or the degree of analysis with measures I can accept but still stand behind the seriousness of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88252	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88253	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said making this strategy is a state intervention to the current state. The strategy concerns the establishment of basic, fundamental, long-term objectives. The strategy has never been or will be an intervention because the achievement of the long-term objectives cannot relate to intervention and improve the existing situation. And I don't know how the strategy can fix the situation in 2014 and it also applies to 2014 when we're on our way out of that year. With strategies, it comes to power, not to leave power. You were talking about the processing industry. Of course, the situation is unsustainable and urgent. But strategy isn't an emergency response. The share of the processing industry in GDP fell from 14.8% to 11.8% from 2000 to today. So the share in GDP has dropped 20% in eight years, here from 2000 to today, in 14 years. It needs to be intervened, but not by strategy. How to reduce financing costs? It's like nobody's interested in Croatia. For decades, the cost of financing all activities and industrial activities in Croatia has been higher and the share in total costs is greater than 6 to 10% of all others. How do you increase credit activity? How can current financial discipline finally be established in Croatia? How to cut costs, especially energy? Why pay in industrial production unnecessary energy power? Why pay the utility fee unnecessarily for the investments that are being opened? These are measures that can fix the current state. The strategy is good but the current situation is not being corrected by the strategy. Here, that's my basic grudge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88254	Thank you, too. Replica reply, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88255	Well, I agree with you. So, this exposure is certainly in the direction of a constructive debate that says that the strategy needs to be analysed and adopted due to some future times, but that it will fix in 2014 or significantly reverse 2015 takes a number of years. As you said for decades, our capital industry has paid more than their competition in Europe. It's a problem we've had for decades, and we need to change it together, find models. We have proposed something, so I hope that tomorrow we will have at least a closer price of capital as their competitors especially in Europe as a large market and then on the global market. So I agree with your debate. We need these dotted measures as soon as possible and we are trying to go and fix the sector by sector, but I think it's a strategic document that needs to be passed in order to know so in the end, the new investors are either foreign or domestic to know what they can expect in '16. and '17. Not bad, and I see that's how your debate went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88256	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88257	Dear Mr. Minister, I have listened carefully and it is my impression, and the Croatian public has listened to you, nothing from this opening statement of yours could conclude. I think that this strategy with which you are practically going out at the end of your term or before the end of your term is an extremely important historical document, looking at the state of the country. Unfortunately, this government hasn't made the entire development of Croatia's strategy, so this is just one element that we're doing so mosaic and we don't have the whole story. However, you have not presented any elements here in this exhibition that should represent the development of the Industrial Strategy of Croatia. I'm asking you to return to the pay phone and tell the key elements what your vision is. You seem totally unprepared, I ask you to tell the public and tell the representatives exactly the firm elements of this strategy. Because in these 300 pages we've seen practically repeated stories written in many of the strategies we've had in this House. Here's me inviting you to come back and say it instead of commenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88258	Replica reply, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88259	Okay, I'll do it again. Growth in the volume of industrial production at an average long-term rate of 2.80%, 86 thousand new employees in the industry, labour productivity growth by almost 70% and export increase by 30%, with a change in the structure of the same exports. Can that be clearer? Those are the goals. The measures are listed, the analyst has 80 pages. To burden you with the whole analysis that we've come to, what industry looked like historically, at which stage the industry collapsed and how colleagues said they lost hundreds of thousands of jobs, so I can do that. But I'll repeat to us is the goal of the strategy, and to you it's obviously unclear. The growth in production volume below 2.80% has an average of 1% per year, 1% worked in. The growth of new employment in industry, which is listed here and analysed, according to the rules of the NKD, Eurostat etc. Eighty-six thousand. We have to raise productivity in this same industry that is our biggest weight and we have to raise 30% of exports because we can't base industry growth on domestic consumption because domestic consumption is directly related to bank activity in Croatia and we can't expect a 30.40% increase in consumption in the next 7 years but we can make up for it with exports to those strategic industries that are listed here, which is pharmaceuticals, ACT, meditrating, electricity industry and those that can be set up by food and wood industry. I think that's clear to the public. If they want to see the document they were in the final line of discussion, I don't see what was unclear in that attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88260	Thank you, Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies, committees of the Croatian Parliament want to present their reports? No one's answering. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the club of Independent Representatives, respected representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88261	I thank Mr. President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The strategy is something that speaks of how we will behave in the coming years. And every strategy is always something more general if implementing acts are important. Therefore, I think that discussing the strategy regardless of what it is at the end of this government's term is good. Why? Then there's a document that someone new is going to work on, change, but at least we'll know which way we're going. On behalf of the club, I will talk about the shortcomings set out in this strategic document, if there is still the possibility of intervention, add change. Only data is worth it because we can simply get an insight into where we are today in the processing industry. They have a huge shortage, and this huge shortfall is that quantitative analyses do not cover 2013 an important year. Why does it matter? Because the situation has deteriorated that is number one, we have become members of the EU it is under number two and three attempts have been made to implement certain measures, especially in the recovery of liquidity and responsibilities. It's just so important things that change a certain position in all of this. And yet when we look at what the characteristics of this industry are and we see that this industry is deinvested, that everything went into consumption, 80% of our gross social product is consumption, 19% is a simple investment, and it's a positive difference in imports and exports 1%, meaning too little exports. And when we see that it's very important in 2013 in that part. On the other hand, we find that we have an increasing number of employees, that only the lowest in Europe, on the other hand we estimate that the working population is lower. Which I wouldn't agree with. Why? Is if we observe the Pension System laws we see going to 67 years of retirement, then the question is how do we get a part of the pensioners back into the process, so I would simply take the retired ones into work if we wanted a stronger strategy and stronger measures in that work. To bring all those we've retired early because of the failed industry back into the process and we'll see that we still have an educated, high-quality working force. So these are things that are not highlighted enough in these analyses. We also see a terrible fall just employed in these industries that if they took in 2013, it's even worse. So when we look at mining and everything else is 36% down, and at the same time we see that we boast, we have strong natural resources, strong natural, terrible decline. And not to mention what it is about construction and we know what investment means in infrastructure when we talk about railways and ports, and what it means in energy when we talk about power shortages regardless of whether it's a thermal power plant or a hydropower plant. And now you would point out the lack of this strategy. So when we look at what the goals are, we see a growth of 2.8% per year on average, we see that it's raising 70% of productivity. So we estimate that these may be insufficiently strong incentives, insufficiently strong targets to move us. And then I come that perhaps the biggest mistake that we have is simply giving up the important activities that are important to the processing industry. So that last table, I'm not talking about the divisions that are the result of our analysis, but about that last table of activity, the subdivision, which are not included in the ranking system, but about industrial policy. It's a huge lack of this strategy, and I think we should do something about it. Why? Well, the industrial strategy is part of the government's measures, and these branches are the most covered by government measures, and they can be covered, so I remind you that it's the construction of ships, so it's metal machines and equipment, so it's steel, so it's a question of tobacco products and refinery derivatives. So we know that there are huge incentives, huge activities, and on the other hand, when we look at what's going on around the refinery derivatives to just import them, there's what exactly measures can do. And I think that because we didn't include this in the strategy because it wasn't ranked, then maybe the goals we've achieved are insufficient. So I think that this lack should simply be removed including these activities and activities so that they may have perhaps more prominent objectives. And, in fact, I think maybe we should have followed what Europe has set its goals. How many employees we will have in total, say Europe says by 2020, will have 75% of active employees and what it is, Europe said it will take care of the poor and said it will reduce the number of vulnerable citizens with poverty, these are the objectives of the strategy. I think our goals would be stronger if we tried to emphasize them like that, but then we had to engage these activities. In the analysis itself as we've sorted this out, I may have some suggestions. First of all, food production is important, but in order to be able to properly analyze what is... and what needs to be done, then we had to compare it to trade. And we see that food production in Croatia endangers trade, it is given the largest part of the price on the shelf, the largest part. And that store isn't just domestic trade, it's imported chains, and if we want to talk about food, because home is created... for stronger exports, then we just need to increase here the analysis of the relationship between trade and food production because it's very important for that sector. It also means something about wood production, wood processing, furniture. Insufficiently analysed relationship with Croatian forests. It has been said that the problem for the industry is the relationship with the Croatian forests, why there is no investment, there are no long-term contracts for the delivery of raw materials, there are no, in Croatia you can't have it. So even stronger, why are we exporting logs, why are we exporting boards, if we should stop there because it stops Europe, there is no. It's the resource we see we have, but it's not going into the final production, but that problem is not sufficiently highlighted in the analyses that we have around that part. Since you didn't even process oil derivatives, then there's no need to say it either, but we know it's unacceptable to import derivatives, and at the same time we have refineries that, let's be honest, before closing because they're not refineries, they're... So those of oil, more than 50% have a heavy residue that's far below the price of oil. It's just maybe things that we could say more about and especially when we're talking about chemicals. I think the code of analysis needed... for the price of energy. We have a destroyed... which is closed, but we have a huge... in Petrochemy Kutina. Why? For the price of gas. And we in these analyses have essentially not sufficiently analyzed gas prices, but I see that I've been too busy on analysis and where we need to fix even more to make our analysis stronger, so I'm still going to go to measures that we kind of want to implement to strengthen and achieve the objectives set. In measures related to the creation of a stable investment environment, you did not highlight relations with local self-government, the power of local self-government, spatial planning. It is something that should be listed in this section, a stable investment environment or vice versa, to try to see how simple problems in that part reduce. In this part, given that most of the measures are envisaged in the tax system, which I think is not good because the most important resources we have are resources and we can use these resources, then here we should define the policy of concessions, sales policy, rental policy and placing Croatian resources into operation. So what we can achieve at these prices is that... more efficiency and greater exports because obviously if we don't define it, we'll have overpriced concessions again, too much compensation, the problem of drinking water, how we're going to concentrate mineral waters, how we're going to concession construction material. And I think that there should be far more resolution of the local self-government here and the issue of management of natural resources and..., and then we will solve the relationship with the Croatian forests and politics of the Croatian forest for the long term... and everything else. When we talk about science, education and links with investors and investors in the processing industry, I think it's quite well worked out and I wouldn't stick around, but in the restructuring of public administration it's not just a measure of public administration efficiency, but it really should have a series of measures, and they are in the government's reform document, which is part of the EU documents. But what we're obviously running away to see the biggest problem is still the judiciary. The judiciary with the enormous problems that the judiciary is facing, so that's why we have the enormous indifference and uncertainty of investors. Therefore, these measures should be strengthened by reforms in the judiciary and by very clear definitions of what the Financial Business Act is. Because the Financial Business Act is not only a pre-demand settlement problem but also a payment deadline, and there is no investment until we solve this problem or it is not a problem and who will solve it, the judiciary or the administration. These are the things you need to make very clear here. And market and capital development, you've transferred everything to venture capital funds I'd say private equity funds. And what are we forgetting? We forget that we have one-on-one capital in pension funds. We have 60 billion kunas immobilized in pension funds, that's the money of Croatian citizens. And I think if you've already decided to turn the strategy towards the one in the first and second groups then you have to bring in documents that it's mandatory to invest in the first and second groups with pension funds, and that the risk takes over the state budget if we don't want the risk in pension funds. But the money in Croatia has just not been used. and the moment when pension funds invest in strategic branches of the processing industry that can increase exports, which can work profitablely, can increase productivity then will increase activity in risk funds and everyone else. But while pension funds are not in investment but are in government bonds we will not have the proper use of the financial market in the Republic of Croatia and that is one of the biggest shortcomings in the 4th part of the priorities that should be done because the money is still there. Therefore, the document needed but still needed to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88262	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we have a dozen replicas. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88263	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Linic, it was a little short for me to tell you and the ministers because it hasn't been that long since you've acted on key duties in the government. I personally believe that you have gained credibility through your work and much has been done about the financial stability of the state. It's not my area to speak legally, you mentioned judicial reform that we had on the agenda yesterday. I personally advocate that every strategy of the new government, every Croatian, be at the beginning of the mandate. This gives the impression that this is before the end of the term of office, all governments have adopted strategies I would have called on myself to say that sometimes in the Assembly but a consensus of all parties about the future for Croatia, and I think this strategy is still a perspective in the future. Today we have a lot of bigger problems, and it is difficult to talk about a better future if today I will mention our city Osijek to Minister Vrdoljak well knows from a large company IPK Osijek with several thousand employees there is no one left, so we will go towards the Valkovšina PPK Valpovo, Belišće, OLT Osijek and similar things are big problems because today it is hard to talk about the future when we are hard to live. But here I am, Mr. Representative, again I told the Minister to sit down on these issues and find a consensus that any political bickering over strategies. We had a strategy for education and science the other day where we all agreed that we had perfect science, investment in science, links to the economy, links to the future of Croatia's EU, and the second day we found out that there was no salary for educators in the 12th month. Let's say these are problems where we should link the present to the future, so we could discuss it more easily, and not now that I'm watching if the minister is coming from the HNS, is if there are better quality people than Martina Dalic, Domagoj Milosevic next to you, Mr Linic, and some other people who have something to say and it's difficult if we look on the left and right side that no quality solution can be found now that we can. Here I stand for this strategy, it would be the best consensus strategy on important national issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88264	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88265	I agree with my colleague that every strategy should be at the beginning of the mandate, but let's not burden ourselves with what it isn't. Now we have a strategy that we are discussing, and let's bring it in, expecting that the government that takes over this new mandate will change this strategy, work it out, show greater ambition. Because if we have 2.85 average annual growth here, I find it insufficient, even though I say what's missing. The lack is that key branches where the state will encourage the processing industry are not inside. But let the new government say it will not be 5%, on average, to say the total employment of the working population. Therefore, this strategy can be a starting base can always be developed, but it is important that we have some documents that we can see where we are going because this strategy significantly deviates from what is happening. We do not realize this strategy, in the last three years we have a complete collapse of the processing industry, if we had just had a previous strategy we could already say what is happening, why this is happening and the discussions would be far simpler. So I suggest we accept it, so there will be a change of strategy. But what I'm saying is, let's not pay attention to certain irresponsible statements by some ministers. Listen, I haven't heard yet that someone in Croatia didn't get paid, there's a question of how many ministers are responsible, because if he says he can spend 10 he spends 12 in the world, he's leaving, and in Croatia he's giving lessons. I mean, irresponsible ministers, so I'd better not hang on to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88266	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88267	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Linic, you have listed several shortcomings in this strategy, i.e. some suggestions you have made which would be good if this strategy contained. I think that this strategy lacks respect for the fact that Croatia is an EU member and that it is at the European Commission's level that they have adopted a number of documents that should have had their confirmation on this document as well. For example, the European Commission adopted the Europe 2020 Strategy for smart sustainable and inclusive growth and one of the main provisions and the strategy is a circular economy. Mr Minister, you do not mention in any word the circular economy in this document, and Europe leaves the linear economy and creates a new product out of raw materials. This was to be stated in this document because the European Commission plans to employ 580 000 new employees through this Circular Economy Strategy by the end of 2020. That part was supposed to be here perceiving. And the second part when we talk about being a Croatian member of the EU is European funds. I also cannot understand that this document does not respect the possibility to encourage the industrial development of Croatia through European funds or to a much greater extent than this document has been adopted, or written, or proposed. So I believe that these two important European Commission documents on the one hand, Europe for smart and sustainable and inclusive growth by 2020 and the circular economy should be anywhere and where more contained in this document, then it would be more complete and ultimately be more appropriate for the moment in which Croatia is located. And on the other hand, the lack of mention of European funds in the context of industrial development in the Republic of Croatia gives me a significantly negative context for this strategy itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88268	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88269	This is why I mentioned that one of the shortcomings in the analysis in 2013, the quantitative analysis that should have covered it, and obviously the problem. Why? Because we don't have reports for 2013 of some bodies like maybe statistics, FINA, because it'll only be later. But it is obvious that in 2013 it had to be processed because it has changed significantly as it enters the EU. What else is important that I may not have mentioned it? It's environmental protection. Entering Europe is a protection of the environment. A huge asset that needs to be singled out by who? The most important thing is to isolate the processing industry, and we know that the technological problem is in the processing industry. And when it comes to protecting the environment and all the rules that imposes on us now a new community, then it should certainly not only be Europe's funds, because we can use it to protect the environment, and we can certainly benefit each of the projects in the processing process. But then we have to talk about our money, and these money is in the Environmental Protection Fund that is purposelessly spent, it's being wasteless. And to go into analysis, let's say it's still missing, how it was spent on the processing industry or the least money industry. Most of all, they're being punished, but the money instead of returning to new technological solutions and protecting the environment is not coming back, it's used for something else. And these are analyses and these are solutions when we talk about what measures should be taken. So, environmental protection, the withdrawal of funds, but also the use of environmental protection funds, most of all, for industry. In fact, I'd be rigorous about these goals, which is a hundred percent industry, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88270	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Linic, you've been talking about a lot of segments regarding this strategy, the industrial strategy. In doing so, you also mentioned the trends that are current in the EU along with the circular economy that my colleague previously spoke of in the replica is that in the European Union I know that because I was there, since there are 25 million so-called. A text message from middle and small entrepreneurs, that everyone hires at least one. Therefore, to provide incentives, support and everything else so that each of these small and medium-sized enterprises would employ at least one person. It is 25 million new employees in the EU. You know what that means? At our place, we don't seem to have that tendency. And about importing food and reducing deficits, importing and exporting food that are also said about, I think we are already talking about it in Slavonia as a destroying factor. Therefore, imports of food to the destroying factor not only of the basic agricultural production but also of the processing industry. That's exactly what your accent was on, so our processing industry, so it's addressed to agriculture, actually, and you've brought out the data all by yourself to say dead, cloning, and then we have a situation that two billion imports of agricultural products, and something like a billion I'm talking about euros, something about a billion or slightly more euros is food exports, and it could be completely the other way around. All of this contributes to our being in a state where we are and here you know, and you said it yourself, and I talked about it before that Croatian forests and that the export of logs is really big compared to the final or semi-products which we have, but we'll talk more about it. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88272	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88273	Thank you. Yes, I agree that it is very important to highlight those basic, strategic branches and their problems. And it's easy for Europe to tell one employee more because there's no fear of investment. He's got money. I claim there is money in Croatia, but there is fear of investment. So who's going to invest when he doesn't know if he's going to charge what he's selling, that simple realization is final so he can recover, so he can pay his wages, so he can pay off and pay off the loans. There is no return, nor is it guaranteed by the judiciary because it is completely ineffective. So just take the pre-fashion settlements, solved by 7000 about 1600 and 5500 were to open up the bankruptcy. Did they open them? No, they're not. What did the Financial Business Act say about paying 60 days? Is it paid? No, I don't. And you have complete analysis of who doesn't pay. Local self-government units, don't pay the trade chains, don't pay the industrial plants to each other. That's the problem. That's the problem. That's the problem. That should solve this strategy, it should be seen that this strategy is a problem. And once we solve these problems as well as the speed of authorisation and the rest, we will create security. Well, I'm sure 50 percent of agricultural land isn't operational. Strangers would come from outside because they're looking for a place to invest but where to go when they have this kind of uncertainty. Therefore, we are dealing with basic problems and yet this strategy stands to say that the state must help that a simple investor has security and that it believes that it can regain its... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88274	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88275	Thank you very much. A fellow Linic may be the least developed link between production and the market in this strategic document, and sometimes macroeconomic indicators no matter how much they like someone or don't like to open their eyes to what you need or don't need to do is best when we look at these 7 fertile Croatian years, 2002-2008 and then we will see that economic growth was then based on the boom of construction, both road construction and residential construction, and also on the boom of trade chains that potentiated consumption. But one other piece of information we all forget about, which is a huge growth in the balance of payments deficits. It means that domestic production has been destroyed in a certain way and imports have grown. And the crisis came in 2009 and beyond, all those who have weakened in those seven good years simply disappeared. And if we're not looking at this strategy right now, it's easy to produce something, it's just a question of whether at the moment when all the world's economies are closed and they sell their products to if we have them sold to anyone. And that's the key to maybe everything. And what we often like to lamentate when it's politically beneficial to us, which is the price of energy. Petrochemistry can only function and be effective with the price of gas. There are ways and models to do this, but you're strategically looking at it if we don't put it in order it's simply impossible to talk about it. And what we all forget once and for all in the former state and somewhere until 2004, all small and medium craftsmen, actually craftsmen and small and medium entrepreneurs, were leaning on large systems. Today, there are no large systems in Croatia, and that is a key problem. We can reason here as much as we want, but I say some macroeconomic indicators no matter how much someone doesn't like them in some period, they open their eyes and warn about what's good and what's bad. And I won't say the hard word, the worst is the one who pays three times the same mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88276	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88277	Thank you. Yes, construction is one of the great causes of many downfalls. But construction had the opportunity to play an active role in the Croatian economy. Once we had finished the road, after we had finished the shopping malls, business buildings had to go into energy, they had to invest in hydropower plants, thermal power plants. These are huge, huge construction activities. Whether it's a direct performance of works or it's cement, iron, steel and all that's used. It was supposed to go into the railway infrastructure, that's a lack I would say to these governments if she hadn't done the most in that part with those investments, with that. Or do we want to talk about two refineries? So only when you count it as 6.7 billion euros over the next few years. This construction would also boost consumption and this construction would then be a strong incentive for many, many processing branches that would boost production for the needs of the Croatian market. And then I guess we'd step up for the out-of-way performances. But what's also important is that we invested in production I'd say energy raw materials at that point we'd have a different price and we'd also contract with the INA on a monopoly price that's above the European average and a huge impact to save both Kutin and DIOKI. And at that point, we would have a very important petrochemical industry that would not only be present on the Croatian market, it would be competitive on the outside. Because you understand, first of all, competition is with a strong placement on the domestic market.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88278	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88279	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow you have detected, of course, in 2013, what can always be done now as one analysis, as will be needed in 2014 to follow measures because this is a strategy that literally ensures that the work of the Ministry can be monitored both as well as the work of the Government and therefore, among other things, is a good strategy because it can be really monitored throughout the course. When we talk about domestic trade, as you mentioned, it's quite clear here that if we do and we want to have a strong industry then we have to turn to export. And if we have a competitive industry that can be competitive in the European and world markets, and apparently all indicators suggest this year that this industry has already improved its business successes, then it will certainly be realised in the Croatian market. Because, realistically, the Croatian market is too small to ensure quality development and processing and all other industries, and therefore this analysis and this strategy, which primarily relies on the export strategy because export is the key to development in any case in the Croatian economy, is something that will then ensure that our products are fully competitive and accessible in the shops, whether domestic or foreign owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88280	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88281	And I agree with you, if we want to jump quickly into our processing sector, exporting, that's what competitiveness is, and I would say EU documents, competitiveness without incentives. The second is what is said to invest in environmental protection, technology, etc. This is followed by Europe, but this company must be competitive. But in order for her to be competitive, she must not have any problems at home, neither in charge, nor in documents, nor in me to tell her business. And it is the work of the public authority body whether they are judicial or administrative. But just as it's important for them, that they don't have a lot of dependence on the loan, that in such strategic branches that go outside we have present pension funds. That money should be in there. We need to change the ownership structure of these individual companies. The biggest shortfall in pre-fashion deals did not enter the new owner, we did not use the resources of the financial market that we have in Croatia. Without a new owner, without additional investment in capital in these new technologies, we will not be competitive because with loans, regardless of the price of credit and higher participation than usual Europe cannot be competitive. And that will be the biggest shortage of our domestic producers. But it is also a question of two other segments, the price of energy that must be competitive, which is the job of the state in relation to Europe or at least at European level, and what is also important for competitiveness outside, it is our pension system with enormous deficits burdened with high contributions. How we're going to solve the pension system, how we're going to pull too many pensioners with young years back into function of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88282	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88283	Dear fellow Linic, you were in the government when you needed to have your head cut off, and you were passionate about knowledge and refreshment in this debate. At the beginning, you spoke about why Croatia exports logs. You spoke with one example of why he exports the logs, which is why he exports the boards, which is why we export the raw materials. We were drilling into the chest when Ikea was opened as here was done by a Croatian miracle, and we can do a miracle with our own raw materials. We need to know that governments are those who encourage and encourage industrial production not only through public works but also in partnership with private owners. I've listed several times, that's what Korea did, that's what Sweden did, we know how steel was created in Korea, how Nokia was created, how many other industries came into existence. Exactly by encouraging, the government was the one who encouraged it, the government was the one who designed it. Our government doesn't design. And one important segment you were talking about, it's just the judiciary. The judiciary is cancer, wounds and I often talk about it in the Croatian Parliament. Yes, who will invest in Croatia, who will start production if he is not sure that we will be able to charge for what they produce. Legal uncertainty is enormous from the fact that citizens are not feeling well in Croatia because they know that courts can't get what they should get, from people who deal with production, who deal with industry, those who want to invest cannot invest because they don't know whether they will be robbed and robbed with the assistance of the state. And that's one of the basic problems and that reform needs to be next, she's 20 years late, but we need to discuss it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88284	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88285	Do not deal with your colleague, that it is very important in priorities and measures that we will create to define certain things about natural resources and that may be one of the biggest shortcomings of this strategy that in point 1. creating a stable investment environment we do not talk about managing natural resources. These are public goods, but governmental governance defines them, defines executive power, parliamentary authority through legislation. And it is certain that we need to define the issue of long-term contracts in the supply of raw materials when it comes to wood, that we simply have to disable exports of unprocessed wood, we have to. Why? Because it's the only way to increase the number of employees, to do our processing industry regardless of whether they're ordinary products of wood, furniture or something else. We simply need to define this natural resource policy, we need to define the use of mineral raw materials, water and others if we want to be competitors. And here if we define policy through the strategy and through the measures of the strategy we will launch the interest of individual investors, investors to find a solution to these uses of our natural resources. And of course, what it is, you have to understand except for this kind of incentive that will go through a policy of management of natural resources that must be particularly highlighted then there is protection of investors, and protection without effective justice is not possible, it is not possible, and through effective implementation of existing laws, because simply every investor must have security for its own funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88286	Thank you very much. New Replicated Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Linic, you said it was good to bring strategy even at the end of the term. That's true, it's always good to bring it in because we don't have it, but if it's brought in it would be necessary to bring the consensus that it's agreed, that practically none of the political factors in this assembly are against it but that it's acceptable for everyone. From previous discussions and replicas, it seems to me that we are not close to such a way of adopting a strategy, and in order to be close if we know that in the original form that strategy has gone out without the food processing and wood processing industry. That after that, the public pressure was practically put in there, and then we see that the proposing on one board pointed out that the production of food products and furniture does not fully enter the group of strategic activities, but has the potential for progress. As until yesterday's frontman, not only the minister, but the frontman of this government and the economic part of the government, I ask you to explain a little further here, do you personally consider that these two branches of industry should have a stronger status in the strategy than what this strategy offers?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88288	Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88289	So if you're looking at the strategy, they got a strategic position, they're in the first group, so the strongest group, the group that should run the Croatian industry, and by that part I'd say is well positioned. The question remains whether enough of the problems surrounding it have been analysed. Why? Because then the problem is measures, so not enough measures are expressed, especially because I said that trade and trade relations are a problem with production and food and food products. And let's be honest, again, with the Ministry of Economy's jurisdiction because it's a matter of monopoly, antimonopolis and not saying everything else and obviously in that part something needs to be done to protect ourselves from trade, at least on the Croatian market. And by doing so, we'll have more opportunities to get out. I think when we talk about this strategy, we can reach a consensus. You know why? So for the simple reason that they are not so high targets to be achieved by 2020. I don't consider them high, they're not solutions to our economy which has a small number of employees compared to pensioners. So that's all you have to look at, we have to have a million and 700 thousand employees to solve problems in the pension system. Therefore, here where the core branch aims to increase by 85 thousand employees, it is not enough. That's why I don't see for any government tomorrow that it's a burden. That I can be more ambitious in setting these strategic goals. But I'm saying, this strategy would be far more quality if we took those other branches that weren't inside, then that would be far greater goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88290	Nenad dances, replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88291	Thank you. Well, here's counterpart Linic, you've touched the human potential in your debate and the return of people from the pension system to the work process. With 50% of the young, that would be a little weird and funny. But you're right. You're right when you say that because negative democratic movements, because large immigration is leading to a reduction in the number and offer of employees, which is due to long and high unemployment, inconsistencies of individual offers and demand and appropriate qualifications. The largest increase in the number of unemployed is in the processing industry and highly educated personnel. When I come from Gorski Kotar alone, which is rich in forest and once with the development of wood industry, I cannot touch it and give you support for what you said because if the wood industry is strategic... or should have a place in the development strategy, the problem is Croatia's forest because it is state-owned in the country. Investments in the wood industry are taking place, but these investors later cannot obtain raw materials. Raw materials are standing, waiting for auctions and collapses. The wood industry has a long tradition and high potential, has domestic raw materials, 48% is covered by the forests of the Republic of Croatia and thus manages the state-owned enterprise of the Croatian Forest. Entering industry is relatively simple, but it is necessary to have a reliable supplier and a permanent source of raw materials. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88292	Thank you very much. Thank you. The answer... Hey, buddy, time's up. Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88293	I would like to perhaps highlight this problem of our working-active population in my response to the replica for the simple reason why we should not be afraid that our young ones are leaving, we should not be afraid. Why? Because those who are retired are both trained and working experienced personnel. Therefore, it will very much help us to be in Europe, that if young people can... get better, earn, find their premises and out of Croatia. Why? Well, simply because I expect them to see our natural resources tomorrow, our opportunities, our educated people because here we especially stress the strength that we have in the human potential to invest in Croatia, and we Croatia have to experience as part of Europe. But it's important for us to remove that fear that we don't have enough workforce, because in this strategy it's particularly stressed, that we have an underactive population. No, we have to get him back that way so that the prematurely retired people who have knowledge, the ability to reactivate and bind. And then, there may be some young experts missing, but let's leave it to the labour market, because now it's a European labour market, and we're fighting to get some of the working-age population back and increase that participation of the working-active population and let's not keep them in pension funds. Whoever wants us to give him that opportunity. But of course, first we have to create conditions for the growth of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88294	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88295	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, with my assistant, I welcome you all and gladly take part in this debate on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club. There was a syntagma in the history of the Church, that the Church needed reformatio in capita et in Membris, a change in leadership in the head of the Church and a change in parts of the Church. I think it is a mature time for Croatia to do one reformio and capitas in the head after 24 years of its independence, which is the Croatian Parliament, et in membris in municipalities, regions, counties etc. It is necessary for this to happen, and I feel that we are already moving slowly towards the ideal that I was talking about for the last time, which is that in this session of the Croatian Parliament in the 14th session we discussed the proposal for a strategy of education, science and technology without a time. It was also a proposal for a strategy to address the radioactive waste of spent sources and spent nuclear fuel again without time and space when it should be achieved. And now the 10th point of our agenda of the Proposal for an Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014-2020, so we set a deadline and that's good I think. But that is what we should go towards to make a strategy for Croatia's development in all areas, that this strategy be or ordered by the Parliament Presidency, by experts, perhaps the best independent people but who know the profession to make that strategy. This state institution, such as the Parliament, can arrange for this strategy to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. and if this strategy of Croatia's development is adopted over the next 15 to 20 years in the Croatian Parliament, it becomes a national strategy for Croatia's development over the next 15, 20 years, with it always being open to new interventions as necessary, but therefore we must go. Likewise, when we talk about reformation and capitals and membris in the Croatian Constitution, it is said that the Croatian Parliament has at least 100 members and a maximum of 152. We made it to 151, and we could go back to 100 or less because it should be remembered that every day from the Croatian state budget for Parliament's expenses is taken I think I don't know exactly but about 250 thousand kuna. We spend time here and spend money, and there is no progress, we stand in one minus in all areas. It is therefore necessary to draw up this strategy that Croatia has a strategy and every government that comes after the elections has to stick to that strategy, and the Croatian President of the Parliament or the Presidency follows the implementation of this strategy and gives an assessment to the individual ministry whether it works accordingly or does not work so that he can give him a cancellation card and that he can no longer deal with problems. Croatia's development project needs to be adopted over the next 15, 20 years by the Parliament, a parliamentary debate should be passed, and if adopted it becomes a national programme. We are talking here these days and about electoral legislation, I have already said in 2004 that Croatia needs root and institutional changes. This is what I am standing on today, and that is why we are also in favour of the preferential vote of parliamentary representatives to set criteria, although the Constitution states that every citizen has the right to compete, but there should still be some conditions if someone wants to be a parliamentary representative. This should be done and no fear should be given to civil society associations that raise some questions and seek a referendum on these issues. Because I'll only mention Iceland. Iceland has entered major reforms, and we don't write about it, we don't talk about it, as if it's happening somewhere on a planet outside the solar system. But the Icelandic parliament left parliament, but it disbanded the government and will not repay the debts that the government has made. Let those in charge return. And international monetary funds, today I heard something and read some information that they thought, that the Icelandics did well. We're not gonna do that. We need to pay back what we've done. But when it comes to the adoption of constitutional principles in Iceland, then every citizen has the opportunity to propose paragraphs of the Constitution, there is the possibility of whether or not he will use it is a second question. And there's a committee that'll bring everything together and bring a new constitution. So, let's not be afraid of the initiative, let's not be afraid to convert the partocracy that is in Croatia into action in democracy, parliamentary democracy, and let's not be afraid that the president of the Croatian Parliament will be the institution that will determine and evaluate the development, strategic development of Croatia and how this strategy takes place in certain areas. Now Mr. Cain will continue to debate as much as time allows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88296	Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88297	Madam Vice President, Minister, MPs. Yeah, this strategy is pretty hard to talk about. Since '93. Croatia has adopted 60 strategies to date. So if we adopt this one, it's going to be 61. And one will say that after each strategy we felt worse, you will say that Croatia went down, that it did not go up. Well, if this is going to change anything, I'd love to, but I actually kind of doubt it. When I look at the biggest Croatian problems. I'd start with apathy. People have lost hope that in 2014 they will be better than thirteen, that 2015 will be better than 2014. They won't grow a gross social product, nor a standard. Whether industrial production will see it and as if they've reconciled whatever power comes to them will be the same. The election is clear that politics are changing, but people have lost faith in leadership, politics, so it is no wonder that gender change policy becomes politics. What's it supposed to come from? I'd say it's a crime. That's what just destroyed us. The entire municipalities are privatized. The 1990s were privatized factories, '96, '97. We have a coupon privatisation, so the hotel. And after 2000, with an emphasis on twelve, the thirteenth were also privatized by the entire municipalities. Someone said we had an investor. We don't have anything. We don't have any investments or investors, and we kind of have to land. In order to even pay our salaries to teachers, we must cut our investments in science and education. And Europe threw us back, not pulled us forward. By the 6th month 2014, we paid her 3.6 billion kuna, we withdrew 3.4 billion kuna, and what is the worst priorities sets us Brussels instead of taking part in the selection of projects with Croatia. And I'm looking down at Istria that's always been in front of the financial for tourism, we're closer to Trieste, we're west, we haven't had a war, and yet we're stagnating. The total income last year was €28 billion 4.5% of Croatia's average, and by 2001, it was 7,7 and a half percent of gross social product or 2002. 37% more than the Croatian average. It's 27% today. Because of the proximity of the West, tourism will have less unemployment, but because of nepotism, corruption, someone will say drugs, media dictatorship, because 50 local leaders weigh 2 million euros simply stagnating. I looked closely at these 353 pages plus these tables and where do I start? I'll start with what I've been dealing with for a good year, a year and a half, so that individuals don't take over Mirna and Puris, even though the local government wanted it. It wasn't easy, but in two months, more than 4 million kuna was invested in the modernisation of Puris, and another 2 million kunas will be invested in young turkey farms by the end of the year. 110 workers have been taken over. Mirna, I want to believe that Podravka will definitely, and this is about the largest Croatian food industry to enter Mirna, and the goal was to sell out real estate and move it all somewhere in St. Peter's forest. Cimos Buzet runs a bankruptcy from Copra, and that is what I would say is conditio son qua non-Istria industrial recognition, because without Cimos the Buzecans can only pack bags and go the way of Australia, Canada or New Zealand. For now, it's being controlled. The biggest thing for Istria that this government has done is 153m euros in legal guarantees for the Uljannik, and that should be consolidated by the Oil Group. And that should also change trends in Istria. Let's play tourism. In 20 years in Istrian spaces, only five new hotels were built elsewhere and worse. One of the essential reasons for the crisis in Croatia is how I see it every six months or we have one referendum or we have one election. Our public debt on the other hand is the fastest growing in Europe. The interest over 4.5% will get us the IMF. We are far from bankruptcy, but the public debt of 230 billion kuna is unsustainable. And that's why the same smartness with these highway concessions. And we have to say either salaries or concessions, or pensions or concessions, or more expensive oil or concessions. In Istria, we all expect on the other hand to move on to the ypsilon given in the concession. The state put a tunnel in the concession, the Limska Draga Bridge, before that built 50 km of road, last year, sorry this year we provided 220 million kuna in the budget to the concessionary and we return the VAT to the concessionary and we just wait for it to just go and realize that concession. And finally, if the bank lends you 100,000 kuna for the car that car is from the bank until the moment the last war is paid off. There will be no investment in Croatia until the 2016 elections. There won't even be a bigger flow of money. Pre-trial settlements, I dare say are the essence of industrial policy in the Republic of Croatia. They cleared the balance sheets, but still no fresh capital, no change in management. In us, after bankruptcy, individuals unfortunately come out even richer, and elsewhere in the West, or to express themselves to shoot or start over or end up in prisons. And I'm afraid of the election in 2015. Unfortunately, there won't be much change or happening, and the actual cuts in this country will only start in 2016. Exports, perhaps crucial to mention, have increased by approximately 11.7% or 4.6 billion kuna compared to last year and in the first seven months reached 44.7 billion kuna. Imports grew and reached 75.8 billion kuna. The biggest importer of Croatian goods is Italy with 5.6 billion kuna in 6 months, followed by Slovenia and Germany with 4.3, Austria 2.4, and when we talk about CEFTA BiH with 4.3 billion kuna, Serbia with 1.1 billion kuna. Or countries from our ex-Yugoslavia are somewhere importing over 11 billion kunas of goods produced in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88298	Thank you, dear fellow Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88299	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88300	Please, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88301	What time's up?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88302	My colleagues and colleagues at the Croatian Parliament gallery are the delegation of the Iranian-Croatian Friendship Group of Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who is visiting the Republic of Iran on a return visit to the Republic of Croatia. Please warmly welcome them! . Dujomir Marasovic has a replica at the presentation of his counterpart Grubisic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88303	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Grubisic, you spoke as well as you did in the church, but you know what I'm going to say? I'm full of case strategies. I suggest we make a strategy on how to collect chestnuts on Sljemen. That's how much I appreciate all these discussions here, and they mean so much to me. Nothing! The strategy is brought by one party, preferably one man, one leader in his head, and it is verified by the people in the elections, and we are here by a log who raises his hand. He's got the ruling majority and now he's got 100 hands, no problem, he can vote whatever he wants. So, the strategy was supposed to be passed in the elections and the only thing that gave me optimism when the Greek Deputy Prime Minister said he wasn't crazy enough to say what he was going to do in Plan 21. Well, that gave me the optimism that something would be done. But unfortunately, they didn't do anything, and they decided, which, the ruling set, we're not going to do anything for the strategy, but we're going to run politics from day to day, hold water until the masters leave, so we're going to somehow live for four years, make something beautiful, and we're going to be another four years. We have no idea, and we're talking here. The strategy, when Hitler decided whether to war on one front or to open another front with the east, with Russia. He made a mistake, he opened the other one. Now these are strategic decisions. And what we're petting here is zero kuna. The ruling set when it comes to power needs to know what it will take over four years for the people to live better. They don't know what they're going to do, based on what they've done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88304	Replication response, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88305	You have the right to an opinion that I disagree with, and I believe it is necessary to adopt the National Development Strategy of Croatia, from experts or ministries, but rather than experts, and be a code of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. And the responsibility for the implementation of this strategy is assumed by the president or he can be called the Ban of Croatia, the President of the Croatian Parliament who would not be elected from the majority party but would be elected by representatives among himself based on his views, his project. He wouldn't like either side, that's our president, he's the main point and... protection of law-making in the Croatian Parliament, it is responsible for this and it takes over the main and leading role in Croatian society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary and without it we will wander and, every four years, new programs, and I know that one of us boasted of an economic expert that it was for three parties a radio program. He'd just change this for HDZ, this is for HNS, this is for SDP, but he'd do the same program. So one man would do programs for different parties. Of course, that's how it went, and that's how we've been wandering around for 24 years without a strategic plan, a programme for the development of Croatia. That's my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88306	Thank you. Everyone has the right to their own opinion, but the Croatian Parliament according to the Constitution has its powers as well as the President of the Parliament and there is no need to give them new powers, and we let Hitler go where he is, let's not bring him into our debates. A colleague, Gjurkovic, also at the presentation of his colleagues, Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88307	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, a respected colleague of yours, you said the money is being spent here, the results are gone. We need a national strategy and I'd like to ask you what we're doing today, so we're discussing the industrial strategy today. It is an integral part of tomorrow's economic development strategy and all national strategies. We discussed the strategy of education, science and technology the other day. Therefore, the results are also seen from discussions primarily on committees, debates, public debates as we can say that we are doing nothing here, and we are discussing the strategy of the industry that we have discussed before us in public debates for two months across all counties and entrepreneurs, and the mayors and mayors, and the mayors and all professional services, and we are just finalising, and as the Minister said in the proposal absolutely all proposals, complement this strategy, which is one living body that may change both available and allowed in certain segments by our Rules of Procedure and our obligation not only to discuss, but to supplement it is something that we are here and why our responsibility is. Therefore, to debate and replicate on how and how to make a strategy and change certain electoral systems absolutely will not, we are here and under the Constitution, as the Vice-President of the Parliament said, tasked with making decisions, to make laws, to make strategies, to choose except for the president of the state of all institutions. So let's not go into that space, stick to this strategy, complement it, support it, indeed is something that Croatia needs. And what is most important entrepreneurs, those who are doing this and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are supporting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88308	Thank you very much. Replication response. Ivan Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88309	I agree with the claim that we're discussing here, but the results aren't even a ton ship. And now the problem is that we try to get that ship right on the way out of the crisis. We discuss exactly and take time, and we take money from the budget for our political work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88310	We now have the replicas of the presentation of fellow Caine. My colleague, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88311	Madam Vice President. Mr. Caine, you said in your debate that Europe took more from us than it brought, or something like this, or that Europe was a problem. No, Europe is not the problem we are the problem, or the problem is the current government that manages the country for a year and a half before we enter the EU and for a year and a half afterwards. And everything she's done wrong in those last three years and what she's missed out on for the past three years. And that may actually be the key problem of this strategy today. So there's no credibility at all. Everything written or almost everything written in the current Industrial Strategy proposed is the opposite of what the current government has done for the past three years, everything. Now let me not count, when I speak for the club, I'll go into detail. And secondly, when I have taken the floor, and when you mention Europe, you have a 350-page document and not really look back at the markets, force sectors and not talk about customers, where are these customers of the Croatian industry, on the march? So to speak on 350 pages of the document rather than talk about markets, about the strategy of access to the market, the responsibilities of the government and the administration in all of this, I think it's immaterial.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88312	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88313	No, I don't think Europe is our fault, but the fact is that by the 6th month of this year, Brussels has been paid 3.6 billion kuna and we've withdrawn 3.4 billion kuna. So we didn't know how to do that either, but the problem is that our priorities are set by Brussels. I don't know, maybe something's gonna be better next year, right in the gross social product from next year, they're going to be items by drugs and sex, i.e. This prostitution, maybe it's where we're going to grow this gross social product so we're not going to be down after that 11th quarter. I'm sure, for Croatian I don't know, but the Istrian GDP will jump, but it doesn't do as much prostitution and sex as it does in those drug festivals. But what I'm trying to say is that the gross social product is falling 1% in comparison to the three-month period in 2013. Industrial production in the second quarter of 2014 stagnates in contrast to the first quarter and the biggest problem is the fall in construction of 7.8%. It is fortunate that our exports have grown and I have deliberately mentioned the countries of the former or EX Yugoslavia. But what I think is the biggest problem, the state is too expensive for us, we have 80,000 people in the upgrade today than we had in the 90s. Since the start of the crisis to this day, 22 thousand people have been employed in the upgrade than we had in 2008 for which 3 billion kuna stands out, while on the other hand in the real sector had 120,000 fewer employees and their gross weight paid is -7 billion kuna. So the upgrade today costs us 10 billion kunas more than 90 years and with this money can be built I don't know 50 hotels a year, hire 5 thousand people, 50 factories, build half the highway from Zagreb to Split or what I know to build 20 thousand apartments a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88314	Thank you very much. Srdjan Gjrukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88315	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, our priority does not determine Brussels, we are part of Brussels if I am not mistaken, we have adopted and joined the EU through a referendum of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We also participate and work in the European Council, both in the European Parliament and the European Commission, and we here in the Croatian Parliament have accepted all the conditions of both Maastricht and on deficits, and public debt, and development and the common denominator is development and employment in the EU. These are not measures Brussels, this is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Industry for Industrial Development in the Republic of Croatia, which you spent 30 seconds in your debate. , the Ministry of Economy for Industry Development in the Republic of Croatia which you spent 30 seconds in your debate. The discussion of the industrial development strategy. You said it was hard to talk about, and in the end you said there was no investment until 2016. Based on what? Based on what data? Call the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, call the Energy and Investment Centre and check out the exact data on literally billions, not kuna, but the euro, prepared investments or investments in progress and completed investments in this mandate, which are realised in the Republic of Croatia and by entrepreneurs, foreign and domestic investors, without domestic investments that we expect from the public company, cca about 9 to 10 billion kuna. Therefore, when you talk about the lost faith of Croatian citizens, then I must tell you that you contribute to the loss of the faith of Croatian citizens and of the government, but primarily to the Parliament whose members we are because you provide unfounded data without analysis, unlike this strategy, which has justified data with excellent analyses which, of course, should be further strengthened from the year 2013 which you, I said, only spoke for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88316	Thank you very much. Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88317	... I ask the question to the Croatian public, if the Parliament cannot answer that question. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So where are those investments? The last seven, eight years in the Republic of Croatia. Is it true that we've already had 11 quarters in a row of GDP. Here, I expressed my faith that after next year, when he learns in GDP items from both prostitution and drugs, maybe the Republic of Croatia's GDP will grow. Is it true that we've been dropping industrial production for so long? Is it true that today we have more unemployed than we had three years ago or this year more than last year? We boast about the growth in tourism, with 1, 2 or not, and in fact it's only a reflection on legalization until yesterday's illegally built family hotels, apartments or whatever. No, Brussels is not our main problem. The problem is we, the problem is those who throw themselves away with European money, so they build their offices, for example. in the premises of Hypo bank in the center of Pula which offends the mind of every normal pullecan or Istrian. And finally, yes, exactly, I always ask myself a question, I just can't understand how that generation that led the country is one way or another since '45. Until '90. She could industrialize the country, how she could build some 400 thousand apartments in Croatia alone, how she could electrify the country, set a tourist base, build infrastructure other than highways, employ people, build combinations and so on. Probably because there was less corruption than today. If it were bad, if someone like me hadn't been able to say what I was saying, maybe they'd just get out of jail right now, but we also have to admit that that generation did a simple miracle. And we have 60 adopted strategies since '93. A year. And ask the people whether they are better or worse after each strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88318	Thank you very much. Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88319	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. After your introduction, Minister, I must admit that we at the Labour Club, personally, have had much higher expectations than you personally from this strategy. At least that's how you introduced her. I expected it to be a kind of offer of new, or Croatian... or to use the dictionary and the strategy itself, the quote, the contract between the state and the investor. In 2 places you call yourself, or you write that phrase. However, this strategy rests on beautiful desires, plans and visions, I base on several groups of quality data, but without money. Moreover, it writes, and it relies, again, on classical banking loans as a quality investment option. In the introduction, I deliberately mentioned it immediately because I would elaborate it further in the debate. Having a strategy is important or may be important, noting that 70% of the strategy fails and ends in drawers. We heard that the other day when we discussed the strategy of education and science. Who, for example, is today. Remembers or compares the laws we passed from the energy sector and the energy development strategy of 2009, who remembers the 2008 strategy of mineral raw materials management, the 2011 development strategy, the national health development strategy of 2012? Or to ask a question, when the laws came from those areas was in them... consistent with the strategy and then three points. This strategy also foresees the establishment of some expert advice with the Government for its realisation, so it might be good to put in practice then, to conclude, that when the economic, financial, tax system laws come in, this advice checks out these bill proposals in terms of compatibility with the strategy when adopted because each strategy is operationally implemented through legal norms, laws, regulations, regulations, decisions taken by the Parliament, government, minister, ministry. Because otherwise, the main tools for its implementation are lagging behind. However, in order for this strategy to be successful, it must have either a consensus of actors in the industry or we must introduce a rule that all participants in the election campaign are declared and answered one question, which of the existing long-term strategies, this strategy applies until 2020, so the participants of the election should say, we do not accept the implementation of the 2014 Industrial Strategy, we will bring a new one, we accept an education strategy, we do not accept an energy strategy. In this light of the long-term programmes of this country, and we say that strategies must be the basis for establishing the goal that we are going through and the means of the roads to get to it, we would see whether the policy that has the will to take power accepts these long-term strategies or says we will make our own because these are not good then they make sense. At this point, 13 long-term strategies or plans are in place, elections will be one year from now to show about them or announce new ones is something that is an indication of policy in the economy. Who are the actors of this strategy in my opinion, Mr. Minister? Entrepreneurs and capitalists, banks and investment funds, education systems, professions and experts, authorities or policies with the greatest power of influence, most often changing or not implementing strategies and workers and trade unions. You said that you talked to capitalists a lot, and I didn't hear you talk to the banks, and I'm going to remind you again what the strategy says. So that each government brings its own strategies means that those in Croatia can only be mandated, short-term, and not long-term. And this lack of the opinion of the bankers or the financial sector in this strategy is not funny but very important. In the 1980s, 700 thousand workers were employed in the Croatian industry, now 219 thousand, the industry then had a share in GDP of 30%, today 12.8, 13.6. Why? This is due to privatisation, robbery, opening of the market for goods, labour and capital, the fall of purchasing power in Croatia, Croatia's entry into the EU, the privatisation of banks, and here we have an announced step forward that we will also sell HPB as a major contribution to the realisation of this strategy, and I will explain why. What message does the strategy give? Our purchasing power or domestic demand depends on the credit activities of banks, not on increasing income, it says in the strategy. And it's true that domestic production has fallen partly due to a fall in purchasing power. The conclusion is that continued purchasing power in Croatia will fall and depend more on bank credit activities than on income increases, and therefore the Croatian industry must turn to exports, which is the conclusion of this strategy. Are we in export policy on our own? We did not because, for example, if we had built 80 patrol boats that the Croatian shipbuilding could have done, we would have been realised and sold, and we would not have been banned from exporting these patrol boats, which we later, on the way to be told by the Americans through France, to be carried out in that... state and would not, for example, be troublesome today and given trams in which 20 computers can be sold to countries which are undesirables of the EU or American politics. So, even with exports, I am not sure that Croatia is deciding for itself what, who and under what conditions it can sell. Therefore, the credit activity of banks did not only affect the amount of consumption but also the structure of domestic consumption but it was also influenced by the determination and structure of investments in Croatia and that is correct. The education system educates young people for the warehouse, this is a finding again from the strategy itself. Employers do not invest enough in the education of their employees and still act as if quality professional workforce is abundant. Banks credit the products of their national economies with high or relatively high and much higher interest and foreign exchange clauses. We are a highly Eurosed society, and most of them are afraid, and apparently the authors of the depreciation strategy swear as possible assistance to exporters. Therefore, this mechanism of possible targeted depreciation in the strategy is not seriously considered as part of monetary policy, and monetary policies are neither taken seriously into account in this strategy. The state will not intervene significantly from the budget for the implementation of this strategy, it also writes in the strategy. What concerns me when it comes to state intervention in helping and implementing this strategy is the release of contributions as an angelic rescue formula for investment and industrial development and will be released from pension and health contributions 1,2,3,4,5. Who has the right to release someone from paying pension and health insurance premiums, and then tomorrow the trees and stones will keep saying that the pension system is under way and that the state is clothing him from the budget, that the health system has broken down, and then the state has to save him, and a little, little, little we're reducing, so the state is making regulations that we don't have to pay in funds that are private property of the insurance company. The strategic goal by 2020 is to increase the volume of industrial production by 2.85% per year, 85 new jobs or new employees did not understand that. Productivity growth 68%, export increase 30%. Who? CFJ. These are indications of the processing industry, construction, information and communication that are classified in the so-called group. industrial driver in Croatia. However, there is another problem in the strategy itself that some concepts are not defined, so investment in fixed capital and capital investments is mentioned. I couldn't figure out that difference, so if anyone knows I'm asking next. From 2004 to 2012 foreign investment in Croatia amounted to 132.6 billion kuna. Of that 34.7% in the financial sector, 12.9 in the wholesale trade, 8.1 in real estate business, or when you add that up 55.7% there were foreign investments in something that had nothing to do with industry. I'm asking if it's $132.6 billion investment in fixed capital or capital investments. What does that mean in the context of this strategy? Strategic activities are defined in 6 areas from which drivers should be pharmaceutical products, finished metal products, computer, electronic and optical products, electronic equipment, machines and devices and programming and counselling. If I am not mistaken, food production and furniture are classified in the category of guards with the possibility of progress in the category of triggers. And now I come to the measures that the strategy foresees. The main objective of this priority is to ensure a secure business environment for investors, i.e. the conclusion of contracts between the state and investors, and the export of targeted production companies over a period of 10 years. So this is actually offered as a new social contract on a 10-year period and any authority that comes or stays has to stick to that social contract if we want it to deliver results. That actually means this strategy. For the sake of time, I can't discuss operational, horizontal and vertical measures except for that terrible opposition to the release of contributions to pension and health insurance as a genius move, so I'll end up next. The development of the capital market, and I am now quoting: "Therefore, the development of the capital market as an alternative to financing investments to classical bank loans is a quality option." And he goes on to say, "Because of the relatively high savings of citizens in Croatia it is possible." Then what was the problem so far the banking sector has not financed the industry? Now we know what strategic commitment these are. What measures are horizontal and vertical, Mr. Minister, that foreign banks in Croatia will stimulate you to achieve the objectives of this strategy through classic lending of investments and exports if you have failed so far, and you have failed even by millimeters, even the decline of these loans, these investments. In operational measures you have written a stronger activity of venture capital funds, stronger state aid, the work of special venture capital funds, venture capital funds specialized in investing in the commercialisation of registered patents, HBOR funding programmes. So HBOR draws its income from the state budget. These horizontal and vertical measures mean that it writes here for each calendar year by 2020 how much HBOR will receive money just to monitor these risk funds. With of course great praise that you as a minister who represents this industrial strategy agreeing to sell the only Croatian bank that could largely be in the function of this provision that classical banking loans are the most optimal investment measure. And with a request for someone to explain to me the difference or essence of investment in fixed capital and capital investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88320	Let's go to the replicas. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88321	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Lesar. So strictly speaking and simplistically speaking, when we talk about getting into business water, then it can have two general approaches. Or we do what we do, so we're looking for someone who'll take our product or our service, buy it. Either we watch what can be sold or what kind of service is needed on the market, so we activate in that direction. You have well noticed that certain personal consumption specific loans by business banks have actually determined the drop in demand and that industry cannot find a buyer on the domestic market, so we simply have to focus on the foreign market, according to exports. But that's not the whole truth. And did you accidentally or intentionally leave out the part where the Croatian industry is said to be based on low added value production activities? So, I think that there is a fundamental problem and actually a strategy of this message and it gives that the Croatian industry must turn to high value added products and that is why these, these subdivisions are being singled out, and to some extent this was not well understood by the public, so there was a dispute. Therefore, these are the production activities which have a high level of added value. In order to achieve competitiveness and ultimately to succeed in the very demanding market for such products. Whether the strategy is also well said that the goal is actually to return to those positions that we had before, because this strategy is doing just that, it goes back to the state we have, and it is difficult to talk about some larger growth precisely from these facts that are listed in the strategy, which are the problems of the Croatian industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88322	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88323	It is true that to the most extent Croatian exports are based on low added value. It's undeniable. And that we want the structure of our exports to be of greater added value. But the bottom line of the problem is this, this shift in the export share of the economy and the manufacturer first requires investment, and this strategy rests on classic bank loans as investment measures. That's what I'm trying to do. And I said that the banks in Croatia are credited with double interest than in their home countries, that the credit mass they place in Croatia is partly used by the CNB deposited with them and that the monetary policies in this strategy do not have as a mechanism one of the mechanisms that would affect the price of capital given on the financial market in Croatia. And you're not going to tell me that you're personally satisfied with the price of capital, interest rate, foreign exchange clause, the cost of processing loans that are all suffocating, especially those exporters who want to move towards export by new technology. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88324	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88325	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar, you've been developing that thesis about capitalists banks and trade unions, but these are exactly the kind of strategies that have to have leverage to realize and realize and to control them over time. What's important to stress capital is fast, sensitive and never enough. In this situation, it looks like we will have a strategy and probably Minister Vrdoljak and Minister Lalovac will bang with it on the table and the foreign banks will be terrified. I was worried yesterday by Minister Lalovac's statement when he was with the exporters, so he said he was begging, asking HBOR to loosen the conditions for our exporters. To loosen up. So how are they gonna set up for foreign banks? So capital for the realisation of this strategy won't be, and monetary policy doesn't exist in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is questionable that this strategy is achieved, i.e. It is impossible to achieve it without the capital which Croatia does not have at the moment. So we need to look for sources and we need to direct this very capital into the realisation of our export programmes and what it says in the strategy, but without providing sources, it's impossible to realise this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88326	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88327	Very well noticed. I hope that we have read the same text of the strategy, those who have not noticed that the issue of capital insurance for the realisation of this strategy is the biggest hole in it. The capital is fast, it has its own interests and goals, as fast as it can, and when it is exhausted it goes to a new market, to a new area. His interest is not to remain in the long term if there is no extra profit. And if you don't have your own capital, then you're addicted to that kind of capital. And it is only now a question, and this strategy results in Croatia relying on foreign banks' credit policy in Croatia by 2020. This acknowledges the complete impotence of any influence on change. And that Croatia does not have its monetary policy, I completely agree with you. We only have the CNB and the governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88328	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88329	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you've talked about a number of strategies, 13 of them, and you've also commented on some, and I would have given myself the right to comment on an extremely important one, which is the Strategy of Tourism. Tourism is a strategic branch and about this strategy of tourism we were talking about, it's not long ago that we talked about it in this High House, and behold wonders in that strategy almost lack of or have little to do with those letters like when we give credits. It's bad, it's harmful and it's bad for sure and, of course, it's unfair for rural areas that have very great potential for tourism, very much. And that is, to simply neglect them, neglect these rural areas and the fact that this year the Tourist Board has assigned to undeveloped counties, for example. my Koprivnica-križevnica and Bjelovarska means less than let's say conditionally to undeveloped Istria. Support for these events has gone from half of these funds to RED BULL Festival in Rovinj, while others have received other funds. It's just bad and I wonder what kind of strategy that is? Whether it is a strategy of even development, whether it is a strategy of tourism of the Republic of Croatia or a strategy of tourism of Istria, which we love and respect, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88330	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88331	You have set one example, from when we adopt a strategy and then to operational measures, laws or decisions of different bodies, we do the opposite of that. But credit financing for the development of continental tourism will not be monitored, or foreign banks will not follow because we are directly competitors to those who make 12 times more income or profit from continental tourism than Croatia. And let's not expect banks from these countries that have terribly strong continental tourism to help develop Croatian continental tourism. They still think long-term and protect their national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88332	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88333	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I believe you know what investment in capital means, fixed capital means, but perhaps then you're bringing the public in a certain way into a situation to confuse them. So it's quite clear that this analysis also clearly states that our industry, our entrepreneurship, is poorly capitalized. Investment in fixed capital is essentially a gross investment in long-term assets. This investment in long-term assets, strengthening capacity, strengthening the strength of businesses, companies, industry and then exiting to the capital market, then further or capitalisation through this strengthening of fixed capital investments and the possibility of further development. And this strategy gives, it points to and also gives opportunity, and what is crucial when we talk about the competitiveness of Croatia's state, foreign investors and domestic investors, the funds a clear message that the Croatian government is focused on the development of industry, that an analysis has been made that they know clearly if they invest in Croatia's industry what they can and how they expect in the return of their invested capital and the cost-effectiveness of capital. And in this way we also show our competitiveness because we know what and how we want to go forward and open that space that is crucial to foreign investment, and we open and we clearly show that the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Economy, knows which direction to go. And what is crucial, we have agreed this strategy with entrepreneurs and they are therefore in agreement and it is part of their project to develop exports, strengthen, increase productivity. And then foreign capital, venture capital, funds are ready to strengthen our entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88334	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88335	Comrade Gjurkovic, thank you for telling me the secret so now I realize you personally agreed with the entrepreneurs this strategy so I took it into consideration. Secondly, the question cannot be fooled by the public, when someone asks something, it is not a deception but an answer. Thank you for your definition of which you have made a great contribution to economic theory and turned investment into an exact science.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88336	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88337	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Lesar, you're right, and here's the debate that currently points out that you have rightly responded to the wrong terms that are used, and often it is the case that in official documents, even the laws say investment, i.e. capital investment. So you really need to clarify what the definition is and what it means. Investment in the right sense is to invest material values and knowledge in the present because of the expected results in the future. And capital investment is investing money in material goods. And fixed capital investments, we heard one wrong definition, we need to know what fixed capital is to know what a fixed capital investment is. Fixed capital is part of the total capital invested in long-term assets that can be material assets and immaterial. If it's material, then it's about land, objects if it's immaterial it's about licenses, patents... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not just the ignorance that the government, the government still has the ignorance that there's no difference between the individual's investment and the national economy, which is capital investment from the individual's point of view, it's not capital investment from the aspect of the national economy. When an individual buys an apartment then it's really a capital investment, but when he buys a state-owned apartment to his tenant, employee or official, then it's not any fixed capital investment or capital investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88338	It's a good thing we heard the definitions. You don't have an answer? On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC of the New Wave and Independent Representatives Baranovic and Martincevic, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88339	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. It is before us, as many speakers have previously said, a document called the strategy, one in a series of strategies that were adopted in this Croatian High House, one in a series of documents in these twenty-something years of modern Croatian history, which were adopted with the intention of serious, organised, smart and continuous approach to business, to advance the various segments of our society in a specific case, in this case to tackle industry. What is the recent state of the Croatian industry today, you know that yourself. Part of the answer lies in the number of 300 and some thousand unemployed. The fact is that, compared to wartime, there was a reliquiae reliquiarum of the Croatian industry, that the meditative manufacturing industry is now in the tracks, that shipbuilding is trying now as we Dalmatians say to shrimp through privatisation, that the base industries are gone, there is no TLM in Sibenik, there is no TEF in Sibenik, there is no Long War, there is no Sisak Ironium, there is no Adriatic Ironworks in Split, our refineries are ahead of it. In one word, we have a sad state. We must be objective today, and we must say that in addition to the catastrophic mistakes that I will later elaborate, Croatian policies in these twenty years, from which we should learn what to do to make this strategy operational. There are also some global trends that, unfortunately, in the area of complete Western civilization, eliminated the working middle layer almost entirely except in smart countries such as Germany. From Germany we should learn some things but analyze deeply how they survived. Asking why there is a base industry in Germany today and why it is a strong meditative industry. In all other EU countries, we are registering a decline in employment in industry, we are recording a complete move of full sectoral production to the Far East, which is why, due to competitiveness. The system we agreed to accept on pedestal puts competitiveness. The price of the product is clear, which is conditioned by a number of factors between the other and the labour price. How did we get to this in Croatia except for global influence? We first privatized the banks by not thinking that we are giving foreigners the basic tool for financial... production of all other economic activities. Then we're '94. Introduce a kuna with a catastrophic course that killed the export overnight. He killed his export overnight. Then we ran energy policy in a way that in 20 and a few years of modern Croatian history we didn't make, not a new refinery because we had di. We haven't made a single hydrocentrale. So we ran a agricultural policy that led us into a situation that from a time of 40 or 50 years ago when we told people in these areas to leave the village and go to the industry, then 3 million hectares were processed, today we are processing a million and 100 thousand hectares, and 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land owned by the state and today is not operational. At the level, i.e. the share of irrigated areas in agricultural production, we are at the very bottom of the European scale. We have maybe 2% of the surface under the irrigation systems. We are simply no longer able to create opportunities and competitiveness for the Croatian industry. I'm very sorry that Mr. Minister left because before this summer I spoke to him about a specific measure. I'll set an example. Energy price as part of the cost, an important part of the cost of the food industry. What policy in Croatia have we been leading for 20 years? We punish energy consumption and ignore the fact that whoever spends their energy... produces it. At the total price of electricity for industrial production, we have something called a paid-up power fee and it's participating about in the food industry, in their electricity bills, it's sometimes participating about 40 percent of the total cost. What's the charge for the hired force? So I'm not talking about spent energy, which, of course, has its own unit value and price. You've spent so many kilowatts, you've produced so much and so much, I don't know, fish cans or cans of tomatoes or something else. We charge the Croatian industry a fee for the force involved. Which should have resulted in what? It should either result in the construction of new hydrocentrals, the implementation of smart energy policy or result in the resolution of huge, enormous losses to the same HEP in energy distribution. Have they solved the loss issue for the past 20 years? No, I don't. Did they build one power plant and one hydro power plant? No, I don't. And we're still burdening producers with that kind of energy price. With the price of oil in 2008, I led a protest by Croatian fishermen over the price of blue diesel. Price of barrels of crude oil in American dollars, $149, recorded, then. A dollar much stronger then than the kuna, than today. And the price of diesel that participates in the total cost and competitiveness of industrial products was then 8 kuna on the road, today it is 10. When the dollar is weaker and the price is below $100 a barrel. What did we do? We privatized our company, we broke into the cartel network, and today the cartel washes us, our industry as it washes all other EU industries. The cartel, gentlemen. Not the market, the free market... but the agreed price of the cartel. And now we're talking about an increase in industrial production, and we have unrealistically high costs, the input costs of that same production. We have loans available to those who want to invest, which are significantly more expensive than in their home countries, so one of the entrepreneurs if he really wants to access industrial production, start a new business, produce, today there are 20 to 30% more expensive capital in Croatia when you watch because it doesn't matter if he gets a loan with 1% or gets a loan with 4%. It's mathematically clear. You don't have to be a master or a doctor of science and economy to figure it out. It is enough to deal with the economy and to pay for someone's once-in-a-lifetime salary and tax in life, it is quite enough to understand the entire philosophy of Croatian industrial collapse and generally economic collapse. This document has been made quite detailed and I would not want it to be understood in this Chamber and in the Croatian public that on behalf of either the party or in my own personal representative I doubt its content. He was made referencing to the existing state, following some global trends, thinking is very detailed in it, it contains all the elements that such a document should contain, but it is only a question of how operationally we are able to create the conditions for this document or its objectives to be realized. Is the Ministry of Economy ready, and I personally talked to Mr. Minister about it, so I'm sorry that he's not here right now, to reconsider that practice to hit... the Croatian industry because it consumes energy by working? Are we ready to see the destruction of the unrealistic exchange rate of kuna compared to the euro in the context of exports, and the imperative is a 30% increase in exports? Is the CNB ready for something like that? Are we ready to increase interdepartmental cooperation? I'm going to give another clear example of how we ourselves drink the branch on which we sit. 30 and a few years ago... Zadarski was studying at the Mediterranean of all countries... brandins. We were pioneers in that. Today, Croatia produces 5 thousand tonnes, one company in Greece produces 45 thousand tons of brandins, total Greek production is 150 thousand tonnes of brandins. The niche we were supposed to be first in today is among the last because of objective and subjective circumstances. Now we are working on a national strategic framework to increase production in mariculture that we cannot and are not competitors at the price of Greeks and Turks in the fresh fish market, but we have unlike the others what is apostrophe in this strategy that is knowledge and expertise. We are one of the few countries in the world that has a specialized study of technologists who can work top-notch products based on ordnance and brandins. And what happens in Croatia? On the one hand, we plan to increase production on the other hand, the Ministry of Environmental Protection brings famous Natura, of course, as usual Croatians larger Catholics than the Pope all areas on the Adriatic which would give God a day for the development of maricculture other than existing locations were placed in Natura, all but without exception. And today absolutely potent companies Cromaris, Sardina Postira, Ribovojište... that do not list further are limited and cannot get the production papers. The fact that I can't get the production papers doesn't create a poor base tomorrow for a specialized processing industry of top quality products, absolutely competitive by quality and quantity, prices on the market, so we ourselves because of poor inter-resor cooperation, not the coordination of the sector we close the space for progress. How long? It is not a matter of the quality of the content of this strategy, it is not ladies and gentlemen a question of the need to adopt strategic documents. Only fools come in like gooks in the fog, smart people write a strategy, smart nations have strategies. It's not a scandal to have a strategy, it's a scandal to not implement it, it's a scandal to write one, and in life to do another, and even more scandalous when making decisions not only makes decisions about yourself but you're making decisions about the fate of 4 million and 200 thousand people, it's scandalous. The degree of our organisation, cross-sectoral cooperation and consistent policy implementation has been witnessed by the fact, for two days in the Neretva Valley, the purchase of mandarins has not worked. That's what I was talking about the other day when the situation was better. At least that's when they took the kuna and 30, now they're not taking it at all. Top product, specific, special, Croatian original product. There are mandarins of other species, but non-retvains are one. Free estimate, it'll stay on the trees 30 thousand tons. As far as we function as a system, that's the question. This content of this document is standard quality as well as content probably also a series of other strategies that have been adopted. For this reason, it is no problem to accept, but the problem is to ask ourselves all, and especially the executive authority of this, future and past who have sinned, how and how have we got ourselves into this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88340	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88341	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, I absolutely support what you said about the Mandarins and the state should have long ago found a solution for the ransom that is threatened and for the price, but unfortunately it is not, unfortunately it will not find. I also support what you've been saying about fishing, that is, our fear potential, which has come under question because of the non-conversation between sectors, I absolutely agree. But what I really wanted to replicate is the issue of the strategy that you were talking about, we're going to bring a lot of strategies, we're going to bring them out without work and rules, we're only bringing them in for one single reason because the government didn't do its job that it had to do until Croatia's entry into the EU by 1.7.2013. Today we are bombarded with all kinds of strategies that have no head or tail. Why? Just because a strategy is a prerequisite for withdrawing money from European funds, that is a prerequisite. A few days ago we discussed the Education Strategy and you know what happened, the European Commission told us you must now bring a special strategy on vocational education so that we can withdraw money from funds. So we bring without any heads or tails of strategy that are completely unequal. Take a look at the methodology of the education strategy and look at today's methodology. They don't have anything to do with it. We must adopt a national strategy for development of the Republic of Croatia that is a prerequisite for all strategies, only then will we know how we can develop strategies in certain areas. And there's a problem with this government of the Republic of Croatia that she didn't know that one general national strategy should be adopted first of all, and that this strategy can then withdraw and extract strategies in certain areas, and this is how we're going to have a new strategy on the agenda every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88342	Thank you, thank you. Petar Baranovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88343	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Matusic, I am not an opponent of the strategy simply because in life I stick to some principles no matter how much I knew the Archipelag in which I spent 20 years of my youth, the navigation map was always in front of me. Smart people put on paper and follow it. It's not a problem that we bring strategies, nor would I single out this government, no matter what I no longer belong to the ruling coalition as a representative, I want to be objective and stick to the truth. This government is none of the previous governments in the bargaining of strategies that have not been implemented, nor is this the first strategy that has been written, nor do I emphasize it by its quality is something more important than super-better or something more important than some other strategies that some other governments in Croatian history have brought. The problem is that we don't navigate on the map, and that kind of navigation often ends with a contusion, and we're close to it being folded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88344	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88345	Dear counterpart Baranovic, with much of your debate, I fully agree. You started with words about what the situation in the Croatian industry is today and why it is so. So this document, which I have been reading and reading for days, literally says: "The maker and the promoter of the ministry are in the process of developing an industrial strategy, so this one from 2014 to 2020, and it was almost impossible to obtain any data and information based on which could be done to evaluate the operational measures, the activities that the ministry is carrying out." And that's the essence of this story. It goes on to say that the strategy developed by the Zagreb Economic Institute was made in 2009, that most ministry employees did not know that it existed at all, and these are problems. This strategy is perfectly read, it has a lot of data. So I didn't see the data except in that number of industry employees how many engineering engineers we have in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in that section that are available for certain activities, how many electrical engineering engineers are. From everything else we prescribe and here we write that we will do and do. In what way? And not to say what Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt was, she best defined when she asked the minister why you didn't prepare at all? I just didn't understand him, I have a feeling that when he told us in his introduction that he didn't know what he was talking about, he presented that strategy. And that is precisely what confirms this fact of who was the study maker who wrote it, that it was impossible to access the data in the last few years, in the last three years that the ministry has conducted. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88346	Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica. Turn on the microphone. Comrade Klaric, one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88347	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I wouldn't comment on Mr. Secretary's introduction because I didn't listen to him. I have to be honest. I've been preparing for this debate. And as for these other comments of yours, they actually confirm what the key message is. It is not at all questionable that strategies are needed, nor is it a questionable quality, content and text, a list of wishes as one of the speakers of the previous ones has said. It is only questionable how consistent we are and how ready we are at tactical level to make decisions that are important to achieve the strategic goal, which is the recovery of Croatian industrial production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88348	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88349	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Baranovic, as my predecessors have said, with a large part of your debate, I would agree, although he went from Mandarin, fish, aquaculture, fuel, energy prices, to tanks and wagons in the meditary industry if we were thinking of Djur Djakovic. So, the flood of strategies we have recently in the Croatian Parliament and that we adopt and that nothing like mushrooms after the rain like the flood of the referendum also in Croatia and you say you are not against strategies. Of course the strategies are good, let me put it professionally. The Zagreb Economic Institute knows its validity and value, but you say you are against the implementation of these strategies. And why aren't they having a good time? Because of the incompetent political elites run by the state, which do not implement the prescribed or written strategies by the best experts. We have 200 distinguished education experts who wrote a strategy, but what's it worth? Here's an example of Đuro Djakovic where the policy of clienteleism brings its likeness to the forehead, our giant, is no longer giant, has now become a bit of a dwarf from the 17,000 workers of the 1990s to 800 workers by the end of this year. 800 employees, 800 workers, and it produces such specialized things from tanks, wagons, rail vehicles to others, etc., rail vehicles, let's say. What can we say? Politics has brought in its own people who have ruined their ignorance, their unaccounted for, their unmanageable behavior, ruined the factories. It's not the workers' fault. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88350	Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88351	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic, I'll start at the end. By the current model of vote of people in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian citizens will be appointed to the elections, so if some of us understand their delusions and mistakes in life, they will understand the delusions and mistakes of the next time they go to the elections, and I personally hope that they will come out by a more prosperous model of selecting MPs, so they will know whose name they will round up. I personally am not opposed to those policy options that suit certain things putting people out of their trust, but I am in favour of measuring results. In this particular case, I do not know the details of the situation in Đura Djakovic, but to read that the situation is bad. However, as far as the general state of society is concerned, so also in the economy is part of the responsibility of this house and the High House of Croatian Politics in which we are last, let me put it this way. If we had spent as much time as we spent discussing those who died in a global world conflict 50 years ago, spent on the economy and on agriculture, arguing professionally, justified from case to case might have been the initiator and trigger of the executive, management to start a more serious, more serious, more quality business. Maybe we could run some positive stuff. But we've been doing things that are part of history textbooks, and we've spent a lot of time trying to make an analysis of 20 to 30 percent of the total time that is on board for the session of this House of Commons. And don't be angry, you've made one of your own significant contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88352	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88353	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Baranovic absolutely agrees with you when you say that it is not a sin to have a strategy but is a sin not to implement it. But I'd say it's a sin, actually, that scandal is what we haven't had yet a strategy. And it's in such an important segment as industrial development, or industrial production, and education and everything else as some say we are now in a flood strategy. However, no strategy can be an independent document, and I think colleague Klaric mentioned it, so our personnel picture of Croatia. So we have to have a strong relationship with other development strategies. First of all, the Education Strategy. You also mentioned the entry costs in industrial production, but I must commend the promoter who highlighted computer programming and related activities as one of the strategic definitions of industrial development precisely because there are input costs to other industrial branches if we compare relatively small, and the added value is extremely high. We also have positive examples in Croatia. For example, in the city of Osijek, you have very many small companies, with the mahogany of small companies that are expanding, meaning with the great possibility of spreading that they are dealing with software production, that is, software production, and whose work is an export product. This is also recognized by local self-government and is being done on the project Osijek Software City. So there are positive examples, and I believe that this strategy will only add to these positive examples, i.e. that the state will actively engage in solving them. You mentioned irrigation two, and 2% of our surface is irrigated. We're questioning more than that again. First of all, the lack of large particles, then the lack of a development strategy for agriculture, and in addition, not all cultures and all land are vulnerable to irrigation. So, without one broader picture, I'm afraid there's no general development of any industrial of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88354	Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88355	Thank you very much. I'll try quickly. As far as irrigation is concerned, there is no argument to counterpart Hajdukovic for the situation in which we are at the bottom of European countries because we are a country which, by its geological characteristics and climate, absolutely meets the standards of agricultural production. About that, Madam Vice President, she probably knows more than I do. As for education and the Education Strategy and its compliance with the needs of this Industrial Strategy and at all raising the level of efficiency of the Croatian economy, I hope that this strategy will provide answers to questions and that someone will consistently implement it because the current situation is next, we do not have a high school in Baranja. 97% of farmers at OPG level do not have any agricultural training. If it wasn't tragic, we'd probably be laughing in this House, but it's that we all sit down and cry, at least half an hour a day. As far as the quality and content of this strategy is concerned, I am not at any point in my debate, and I am now repeating not only the appeal of Croatian politics today, one tomorrow or the day after that, that we are really starting to make quality tactical decisions in the field of economy that would allow us to achieve strategic goals. Production, increase in industrial production, increase in exports pulls us back on employment. It's a cancer wound in our society. And we can't do that if we're not ready to take measures like this. at least correct the price of electricity in that area of energy consumption compensation. If we're not willing to take that down at least to a reasonable measure, not to be participated into 40% of our total electricity bill to industrial producers. How and how to make them competitive when we burden them with such things and thus bind their hands in the beginning. We let our industrial producers in the ring with our hand tied to fight against their competition. This is the real truth about the Croatian industry and the approach to industrial production planning policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88356	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88357	My colleague, I think you're right, and that's good, the beginning of your debate began with just one reminder that the Croatian industry had disappeared, that it had failed almost overnight what was being created for decades. You said there wasn't much time, there wasn't a strategy at that time either. Yes, it was a strategy of the '90s, of local winemakers, of these, whose heavy industry was their policy to destroy the industry right now, that it can only live pleasantly from tourism, from services, from certain services and from trade. And you see, these kind of winemakers give you replicas now, we're not exactly sure when it's going to be done or anything like that. But here are the insults when we talk about the truth then come insults because right now you see I think it would be not to have the right to talk about it, but it would be polite when we talk about this subject to keep quiet and to shut up. And to let Croatia re-industrize and this is one of the first steps. We really need to bring that strategy. You mentioned your Sibenik, you mentioned Zadar, yes, just some factories. But it wouldn't take me and you 20 minutes to count the factories that worked at the time. Since 6:00 a.m. when the workers' sirens of the river blew, people went to work. At 2:00, those rivers returned to their homes. Never before have political manifestations brought together so many people. Well, you see, now it's gone. True, we should be fair and say that we have received such signals from the EU that we should and destroy that we can do enough, that the industry will give us that we can live on tourism and on this. But it's a good thing you noticed, too, and many others, that we need a strong, competent, independent administration for this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88358	Thank you very much. Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88359	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, I would not take the right to challenge any parliamentary representative in this assembly to expose, replicate or comment. We are a democratic country, each on the basis of its assessment and conscience, and I have not missed the truth either, and whenever I speak of problems that are rooted deep in Croatian society, it touches the truth that they have their 20-and-a-half-year-old geneaze, and then we can mathematically know how much authority someone may have had to do with some approximation of the share of responsibility. But no one is clean in this story, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, not in this story for twenty years. The fact is that we woke up in 2014 without being the only generator on Croatian rivers and water streams to create an energy assumption for industrial production. It is true that TLM in Sibenik was extinguished not because they had no competitive product, they produced people strategic products, they produced aluminium, they produced a ferro and a large mandan that they bought directly from... Siemens and other companies that have their own reputations in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had to shut them down because we didn't have an energy base, we didn't have the energy to keep that kind of production. And therefore we need to extract a message, we cannot plan to re-indust the country if we are unable to raise the energy sector and if we are unable to stop dealing with marginal issues. Germany's base industry has survived at a competitive electricity price and enough electricity, while 60% of electricity production in the thermal power plants of Germany is at coal. That's the truth. And we today have a system where ten banners with banners destroys the industrial future of this country and we're not ready to tell them enough is it not popular. And responsibility for all of us, in total Croatian politics is the responsibility of 320 thousand or 330 thousand fixed unemployed, we leave seasonal variations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88360	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88361	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Baranovic, you said "The scandal is not to implement decisions" I agree with you. So the decisions made must be implemented. It's an even bigger scandal if those in charge, those in charge of the state, I mean, of course, everything in the past, and even this government that led the state if they didn't make decisions, which means they don't have any views. Likewise, if walking positions are changed, if the principles of walking and walking decisions are changed. The most important strategy for four years of each government is the government programme of the Republic of Croatia. So it is completely incomprehensible why the measures provided for, for example, for outsorcing, are related to the giving of concessions on highways etc. They're changing in walking. And here we are, witnesses now, about collecting signatures for a referendum on monetization, so-called. monetization. The government or parts of the government, coalition partners, are already on the move to change their views so that the public is completely confused and, of course, a sufficient number is collected, that is certain, and it is possible that economic policy of the government is being conducted at the referendums. That's absolutely not possible. However, I would also agree with you that it is extremely bad for politicians who decide both sides, both left and right, and upper and lower very often positions, decisions, principles, to change whether they are in power, whether they are in opposition. So I agree with you when you appeal that all those who are responsible for the present, and especially for the future of Croatia, and that we start openly on the trail of what you just said in the replica, speak openly when it comes to problems and decisions, no matter what is marked as not popular at the first moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88362	Thank you. Petar Baravanovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88363	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Kosor, that you have taken on the key issue of the functioning of Croatian politics in which people who receive captainial functions are often unable to make decisions, often this happens without apostrophe of anyone's name, but one who is not able to make decisions should not take the wheel. On a ship that has always been and remained, it is the most capable commander and not everyone loves him, often does not love him, but must be able to make a decision if it is necessary at the moment, and preserve both the burden, and the crew and passengers. It is a message to Croatian politics to let go of politics and not to talk about bogeys, if we build a thermocentral, if we build hydrocentrals, what happens to birds, what happens to fish. We're a society without criteria. Even in certain situations and wind power plants become problems, and it is calculated that the influence of the wind generator is 1.4 dead birds per year. On the other hand, there is an ehticoid happening in the sea, it is fished without order, without order, as it comes to anyone's mind, the anthropological impact is incredible, nautical tourism without any control. We're still lurking ships with heavy metal coatings. We're in a total mess, but that's not interesting because no one's opened that question yet. We're a PR nation, a PR nation where a hot person shows up, so now someone doesn't understand me as an alluding to someone, and then this people gets into a political hysteria. Great, great, good, good. What's behind that? Zero points, nothing and in the next election re-elected people who are unable to be captains. It's a little bit of a question to the citizens of what to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88364	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88365	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Baranović, so I want to correct one of your incorrect allegations through my replica, and you said that no hydropower plants were built until 24 years ago. In 2010, Lešce hydropower plant was launched in Karlovac County, which could cover 1% of the total consumption in the Republic of Croatia. However, the problem is something else, and you have partly warned in your debate, when you mentioned fees for the force used. The problem is that this government, the current one, raised the price as soon as it came to power for 20% of electricity, and then some other energy plants and set a clear goal for itself, we'll build some hydropower plants, mention Ombla, mention Hydropower Plant Senj, mention the Plomin C thermal power plant, and with that money to raise the electricity price, investment in that infrastructure will be financed. After 3 years, we have to conclude that there are none of these investments, that we are still on the road where nothing happens and that citizens continue to pay that expensive price, and HEP shows only a large profit on all of this. The biggest profit of all public companies and of course there is dissatisfaction. The citizens were somehow deceived and they understood that they had raised their price so that something could be done. The largest two HEP investments in these three years are new administrative buildings and 1000 and some purchased cars, if we all remember, with a constant story that something is being restructured or reconstructed there. We see for ourselves what happens within the part of employment, etc. If we are to observe this strategy in this way, it certainly means through promises without a realization it will have no value. No matter how many colleagues on the left try and call...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88366	Thank you. Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88367	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, again on the trail of practices that we reformers will stick to, some things I will comment on very objectively. As for the rise in the price of electricity, it was raised at the time in the circumstances that were justified because at that moment the decline in bad hydrological years and the situation in which Croatia imported enormously significant amounts of electricity because, of course, in poor hydrological years, we depend on rain. Thank you for the correction for this hydrocentral, which covers a total of 1% of Croatia's needs in 20 years, which follows some trends in increasing electricity consumption, so this is very important to notice. As far as getting cars is concerned, it is not a sin because limos are not obtained, but field maintenance cars have been purchased, which were 15, 20 years old by then, by chance I know about the situation and not every purchase and every investment is unwarranted. And as for employment, I'd be a little more careful about those comments, given that you have a stamp of a party that you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88368	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88369	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In your opening presentation, you spoke about the restrictions on fishing and... given the announcement of the great part of the Adriatic Sea in the area of Nature 2000 and you rightly expressed your dissent with the inability to... activity for islands and coasts cannot be developed in the way that you hold that you should develop. But while on the one hand this same ministry restricts this... activity, we do not remain in one other way more dangerous activity for the same Adriatic Sea when it comes to the exploitation of hydrocarbons because it did not prescribe that before the process we should make a strategic assessment of the environmental impact that might show that oil extraction is not possible in certain areas of the Adriatic Sea. Therefore, double the criteria of this same government when it comes to fishing and... and the extraction of oil, or the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Perhaps the attitude now changes when the president of the state in his election campaign suddenly changed his stance on oil extraction and said he disagreed, likely that the campaign would then go in a different direction. And when you mentioned the Mandarins, I totally agree with you. It's almost incomprehensible that over 30,000 tons of mandarins will remain unguarded since the government hasn't taken any intervention measures when it comes to mandarin harvesting in the Neretva Valley, but it's not just the Mandarin case, you know. A catastrophic situation with olive growing and vineyarding, especially down in our Dubrovnik-Neretva County where there may be only one tenth of the crop since last year, and that breed is very questionable quality. So, as much as we bring strategies, if the government doesn't have the right intervention measures, the paliative measures in certain situations that no strategy can predict, there's no progress, there's no possibility that anything good can be solved, but we're simply witnessing that what's happening, for example in Neretva, is going to be 30,000 tonnes or almost...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88370	Thank you. Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88371	Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, I'll start from the back to the front, so mandarin. The government has no possibility of conducting direct interventions as part of a national agricultural policy beyond what is regulated by the European Commission in this area. However, there is the possibility of a reform of the agricultural sector that regulates, among other things, the issue of the agricultural product market and the creation of a system that is willing to amortise such impacts. What we've created in the agricultural system in 20 years is nothing but hope. So, just at the lowest level of tactical, the approach and industriousness of our people, peasants, in some... we have production, but if we had systematically planned it, then very probably now we might have some more permanent lemon plantations so we wouldn't have one lemon 30 kuna, and we might have less mandarins because we would have a completely different policy for receiving crops and marketing crops. As for oil, we reformists are not against economic activity, but we are in favour of respecting all the legal regulations and legal preventive mechanisms that protect against the incident. And as far as maricculture is concerned, unfortunately, the situation is what it is, if there were more sense, we would have had that possibility, this is how we tied our hands. Just a lesson on the need for inter-resorship cooperation and coordination when certain strategies and documents are adopted, especially those that bind us to the outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88372	On behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88373	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So we finally have an industrial strategy, and regardless of what not only the deputy, but also the minister who presented this strategy, come from a party that I come from, I'll congratulate you on that. The greatest value of this strategy is what it refers to those who have discussed this by more than two thousand entrepreneurs who will basically apply and who agree with this strategy and it is consistent with their, not only wishes, but programs and work that industry is doing at the moment. They also discussed it and suggested and criticised it and led to this stage where we are now discussing it. Because these entrepreneurs will base this strategy and continue to create industry and this development. What is important, it is important that the industry in Croatia is really well analysed, clear objectives, priorities and measures are set. In fact, all objectives are quantified and the success will be as clear and simple as failure, and will be able to assess the work of both the ministries and the government in accordance with their achievement. Since I come from a region where tourism is a core branch, it is not only in Istria but also in Dalmatia, it is deplaced to say how much influence it has on the state budget as well. However, the delusion is if we think it can be the only driver of our 21st century economy, these are essentially industries, new industries that are export-oriented and which are profitable we can deal with with by subsidising competition. I'm going back to numbers, they're going to be the basic parameter in which they're going to condition in which direction individual programs are going to develop. This strategy is brave, this strategy is ambitious, this strategy is exactly what Croatia needs. This strategy refers primarily to the processing industry, construction, information and communication. There has been a lot on behalf of clubs and replicas and debates and some segments and activities that do not belong to this strategy. So I'm going to repeat again, the processing industry, construction, information and communication. This strategy is part of a future economic development strategy, but crucial in our development of the economy and exports. Together with the Education Strategy, which was here at the debate, which is in line with the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology, together with the Strategy to encourage investment, together with the Strategy for Tourism Development and the Investment Strategy, which should come to this House by the end of the year, we will get together a strategy called the Smart Specialisation Strategy, which further opens up the possibility of exclusively entrepreneurship, the withdrawal of funds from European funds of around 610 million euros. But of course this is not the key and why we have this strategy, the strategy is primarily entrepreneurs and their and government influence, measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to grow in exports, to grow in productivity, to be able to capitalise. The key problem of the Croatian industry has been clearly defined by this strategy. And this once again shows that this government in its analysis does not run away from criticism and does not just say those before clearly defining those problems that we have today and that we have to solve further. From this institutional environment, from the non-payment of which there have been the same discussions of individual MPs we define, detect and clearly put into strategy and give through measures, it will task ourselves to implement them and to be criticised as a coalition and government if we do not realise them in the way we have defined them and how I believe that this Strategy will be industrialized and brought forward. Of course, with all this negativity analysis key so that we can see where those spaces we have to operate, where those spaces and measures that we need to act actively and solve this strategy wouldn't make sense. The key industries under activities and activities are clearly defined by criteria without any policy, without any makeup, investing and raising any interests that always exist in society, clearly and explained why. It is also essential that the European market has been analysed to compare it with the European market so that these activities are not only in Croatia, but also because of these exports which are crucial for the development of Croatia can be realised. Once again I will repeat, production of basic pharmaceutical products and preparations, production of computers and electronic and optical production, production of finished metal products, computer programming and counselling of connecting activities, production of electrical equipment, production of machinery and devices, production of food products, production of furniture of key industrial activities. But this does not mean that other activities that are not defined as drivers of this strategy are not provided with conditions for development. In fact, 80% of the measures written in this strategy and, if voted, and I believe that this strategy will be voted on, are also the obligations to implement, are measures that concern all those who are not just key to development and the key that have proved to be the strongest, most productive, most productive, most efficient in the time of recession, which at this point are the drivers of these exports, which in the first six months of this year grew 20% in the European Union. And it's quite clear, among other things, that they are defined as additional drivers. But through these measures, we must help our industry. I am extremely pleased that it is in line with education and science and what other same strategic definitions will also be mentioned here by the media industry also harmonize with this Industry Strategy because it is indeed a driver and it is very much affected by some other segments that are not defined with this strategy. Priority areas, creating a stable investment environment. So this industrial strategy does not only speak of these industries, of course, which I have pointed out that it exclusively specialises in terms of activity and activity. A stable investment environment is related to everything from tourism and from health tourism to education, to investment in private sector education, to culture, to environmental protection. That's why this strategy is extremely important, so this strategy is what you would say is crucial. Encouraging strategic cooperation of the education system industry. Although it is not and cannot often be brought into line with two strategies that are extremely important to come before this High House, to bring one and the other at the same time, and key to education and industry, it is crucial to coordinate entrepreneurship and education. We have that opportunity, we have that possibility, and that's one extremely good thing right now. Increase the efficiency of public administration and administration. So we clearly tell ourselves we have to do it through the measures that are mentioned here. We make a commitment to ourselves. And often when spoken and often heard, we will probably listen to us again, Brussels determines something. All these measures we determine for ourselves at the moment when we bring this strategy. And these measures are much more complex to carry out with everything, the problems with the deficit and the public debt. These measures are restructuring measures, these are measures in essence for public administration to be what needs to be at the service of the economy, at the service of citizens, at the service of the Republic of Croatia, that whoever works in public administration tomorrow says I am proud to work in public administration, I am proud to be able to serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they pay me. That's what's written through the measures in which the public administration should function tomorrow. So it's not about the story anymore we're going to do something, we're giving ourselves a mission through this strategy to do it and to reform this public administration through this strategy. Development of the capital market for alternative sources of financing. There have already been talks about this in some discussions. Our economy and the successful exports are poorly capitalised, there is no capital power, there is no possibility for that step needed in development, there is no possibility other than classical lending under difficult conditions, with complex high interest from banks. That is why this strategy opens up space through its measures and gives the government and the Ministry of Economy the task of ensuring through its measures the flow of new and fresh capital successful entrepreneurship into a entrepreneurship that has the potential to be successful in exporting and productivity tomorrow because it tells those who want to invest in the industry we know how we commit to it, we are a serious ministry, we are a serious government, and we are bringing this strategy to confirm that we are a serious coalition. But I also believe with the support of those who are not in the ruling coalition that we are giving a message to everyone, that we know that this Croatia is bringing this Industry Strategy opens up space for all investors, opens up space for competitiveness and opens space for the future not only for entrepreneurship but also for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88374	We've got two more replicas, so we'll do it before we break. Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88375	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Gjurkovic, just a few sentences to correct you. First, this strategy lists measures that have been in place for many years in Croatia. And now it doesn't matter what measures were taken by the HDZ or the SDP government, but they exist and are available and should have been applied. Secondly, in order for an industrial strategy to have its full meaning, there is probably a need for an economic strategy. With an economic strategy, it is likely that this government, the majority of the Parliament, should have taken responsibility for the governance of the state. And thirdly, somehow today, it was as if we had forgotten that we had entered the EU and that there were negotiations to join the EU and that the former HDZ government within Chapter 20 had not only had a strategic framework for development, but there was also an industrial policy that was adopted in negotiations with Brussels. So it is not true that for the first time the Croatian state is getting a document which is called an industrial strategy, and I hope behind the break that there will be enough opportunity for us here in Parliament to discuss it, because I will speak for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88376	Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88377	Your dear colleague, your strategic framework for development, you didn't follow him either, and it's better not to mention him in the light of what you predicted, the way you brought him in. You have passed it as many laws to enter the EU without analysis as soon as possible, without this way in which this Industrial Strategy was adopted, which is the participation of those to whom it applies. In his opening statement, the minister made it clear that certain measures exist and are only part of this strategy. No one said that measures do not exist. Some of the measures taken by the former government are also complemented but what is crucial we have the entire segment rounded, one framework based on which can be implemented and this strategy must be implemented when adopted. The measures we have and the measures we need to take are written and they are part of the package to implement the strategic industry. It is not spoken here, nor is it said about who is when some measures are taken but it is important that everything inside is written and everyone who has contributed and who has always contributed to the development of the economy and industry should be commended. It's just a question of who contributed, and who was essentially selling national treasures, or who was selling the national strategic industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88378	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88379	Mr Gjurkovic does not need this rhetoric because it does not contribute to the development of the economy as you were now at the end of your presentation. What is important to say in the strategy is no one in the HDZ is against the strategy but we are against that the strategy is not sufficiently defined and that in the strategy we cannot deal with statistics and that we predict growth 2.8% and that at the same time no one has written how and how we will get to the realisation and growth of GDP of 2.8%. It is inconceivable to me that the wood industry that is really here has the fastest growth back several years after the global and economic crisis is essentially a sleeper, not a Croatian economy driver. So with a number of turmoils, meetings, final assurances, it has been accepted that the wood industry is a driver, and it is evident that only this year in the past 580 million dollars has been exported. Or rather, at the end of this year it will be over a billion dollars, which is never so far when the best conditions of business have been in Croatia in the past 10 years and I don't know how many years, 15, have not been. Well, did it take us so long to realize that the wood industry is a trigger, not a sleeper? That the wood industry is the industry that is about to employ the largest number of employees. What employees? So which he's got at the Department of Employment right now with a high-end expert. Instead of realizing it at the beginning, instead of doing everything in common to make it happen, we had to convince the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy that the wood industry was a trigger. We need to react a lot faster to figure out who the triggers are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88380	Thank you very much. Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88381	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I didn't know that you felt called for the sale of a national strategic company, and I didn't know that you were involved when something like that hurt you. But look, when we talk about the wood industry selling logs, it's not industry. You might define that as an industry. ... The furniture industry does. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So there is this strategy to ensure, to make it possible, as best as possible, not to export the logs literally but to export the added value through our furniture and to ensure, of course, other activities that are related to the creation of this furniture while we are already talking about the wood industry to be employed and developed. So that's the key to this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88382	Now we'll have a break by 3:00, and we'll continue at 3:00. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of SDSS, a colleague of Mile Horvat's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88384	My colleagues and colleagues remain representatives of the ministry, so this is really a strategy, and if it is essentially, by weight, this would be one of the more serious strategies that we have had to discuss so far. I'll try to run some analysis of this document and tell you what our club's position is on the proposed industrial development strategy. I fully agree with the predecessors that we bring strategies and we discuss strategies and we vote and then we fear that it remains in some way a dead letter on paper and that they are in reality difficult to implement. To make this strategy, I believe that the people of the Ministry of Economy have made a great effort because I see that they have made very serious access to this problem, they have brought together a very good team, a strong team of analysts, people from the professions that have given us the opportunity here to create a partnership between current legislation and the current EU parameters on this subject, to compare with the situation in the Republic of Croatia. And that in terms of some content is quite interesting and a good document, the truth it should be analysed and it's a real shame that we don't have a chance to discuss this document yet and try it in some way and work it out, but what it is. For us, the industrialisation strategy is a very important thing because we think that the country, that the Republic of Croatia as it is should be, above all, an industrial country, that it is not enough for us to have the basics to be that we are primarily a tourist country, so that we are a agricultural country and I don't know what. So, to remind you, the Republic of Croatia had a golden age of industry when only the processing industry hired about 700 thousand people and had a participation of 30, over 30% in the gross social product, only the processing industry in the Republic of Croatia. And that's kind of a thing to start with if we want this strategy to come back to life honestly. This is a text that has 340 pages, 290 refers to an analysis of the situation which is not so bad because of the compression, 30 refers to the essence itself, to the projection of the strategy itself, and we have as many as 18 pages of some literature lists, etc. etc. That's why this text is like two kilos of material as we have it. I don't think it's very good taste for what has quite foreign terms, English and not all, I think we're creating an animosity for people who should be dealing with this strategy, reading it, therefore finding themselves, really one problem with most of the users of that strategy, except for the profession, excluding the ministry, etc. These should be used by some other people. So things needed to be simplified, certain European concepts that have not yet been in our ears, which we have not yet accepted, should perhaps have been explained a little or at least avoided. So why do I think this strategy that is basically well done because every attempt for us is a good try. We think there are two problems, so she can bring it back to life. First of all, I'm in my neighborhood, so I'm from the county where the city of Osijek is based, sometimes the notion of an industrial city. I will remind, Freedom factory founded in 1869, Šecerana founded in 1906, the leather industry famous Kozara, Svilana 1926, Leo 1901, Mara 1932, Slavonia 7,000 employees, Old founded in 1912, a matchmaker who was always around the world in all countries a strategic branch, so not every country could have a matchmaker, because the simple monopoly from Sweden did not give it. Sibicara was founded in 1856 in Osijek, 20 years after its first production in the German city of Darmstadt in the world. And at the end of Mobile, the famous Mobile. So I counted the factories in Osijek that no longer existed, and they existed in the last 100 years, they were built through three countries and through several systems. Today they no longer exist. I could also say that I no longer have one Toast in Baranja who was, in fact, a world-renowned agricultural machine, there is no one INV who once made, forty years ago, for Citroen car parts when others didn't even know what an auto-industry was, there's no sugar on the balcony, unmanaged, stretched out, carried away. It's my county industry, probably every one of you could name a similar thing about your space. And in the end, we have 20 megamarkets. To the place of these nickels the entire rings of megamarkets in the city of Osijek and its surroundings. To conclude, Osijek had 25 factories when it had 28 thousand inhabitants, now there are no 3 of the 120,000 inhabitants. And for me, it's a basic premise that needs to be started when it comes to industrial strategy. Whether it's in this text or not remains to be seen remains to be estimated. I'm not sure we have a solution to this problem in our strategy. I also think that the problem, the further problem could be structural problems in the Republic of Croatia, which is that we do not have a strong economy that would withstand the burden of this economic crisis. The Republic of Croatia is obliged solely to have and maintain its current budgetary spending and then, under such circumstances, we cannot talk about investments, most simply, investments in economic, industrial production. Let me just remind you that the flow of neoliberal capitalism that we all call upon doesn't look exactly like that everywhere. In Germany, it's quite different. Not exactly that non-liberal capitalism took the price in Germany as it took away, they have another model, so-called. ... where they keep their market, protect their industry and are the only EU country that has preserved its industrial potential and has therefore not suffered this economic crisis that we are all in. By going through the very text of this strategy, I can say that in 2020, Europe gave us the gauges in which we should move. This is an increase in employment rates to 75% by 2020, an increase in research investment, development to 3% of GDP, achievement of so-called 20 20 20 energy and environmental objectives, reducing early school leaving to less than 10%, which is a very interesting thing and reducing the number, or poverty levels by 20 million people. These are some of the gauges Europe has given us. Whether we will be able to fit in together, it is now a question of not more of this strategy, but of the overall functioning of our economy. We see that here as sources of funding that are foreseen for the strategy by 2020 are mainly foreseen cohesion, investment funds of cohesion policy, agricultural fisheries policy. It is also said here that in order for us as a state to withdraw these funds, we must bring in certain acts, we must bring in a national strategic, national programme and strategic documents that we did not bring in. Question of when we'll bring them in. So, will this strategy and will follow certain documents that should also mean financial capacity to implement this strategy. It is interesting, for example, to rank according to this strategy of legal entities where we rank them as drivers, guards, questionnaires, problematic without influence, that I do not read the definition, but the names are interesting and the list is very interesting. It is said here that the drivers are among other products made of wood, cork, straw, etc., and later I will say something about what we think about this relationship between the Croatian forests and the producers of wooden varieties. We can see it's here in problematic detail and cement production. You should ask the director... a group that is the largest cement exporter in the Balkans, does he see himself as a problem of production? We see that without influence in the category is the production of weapons, ammunition and completion of textiles. It's convenient to pull a parallel here, say once the Republic of Croatia had an export potential of about $2 billion in arms exports and military equipment to some markets. The question is whether we're thinking in that direction and if we think it's as serious production as it used to be today. And in the end, we have activities that are not ranked, which is the construction of ships, etc. which are of little importance, I will not mention, the largest rating of our shipyards in Europe. Today we have come to rank them here as totally insignificant activities. The strategic objectives from 2014 to 2020 are quite theoretically set, the truth that there are some definitions that are not as clear to me as the effects of the fragmentation of the value chain at global level. I wish someone would explain it to me what it means, maybe I don't understand it, but I'm afraid they won't understand... most of it, not most of it that should be used in this strategy. So we've given ourselves the task of getting out of this one basic industrial production that we were once known to be wider that we're going to move on to something else, and that's basically what we're talking about. ... production, these are advanced production technologies that allow for clean production, theoretically clean production, these are bio-products markets, these are clean transports, so cars on electric electricity, etc. It's kind of a projection here by 2020 that we'll get to it. Sustainable industrial policy, hence increasing energy and resource efficiency, etc., waste reduction and all this is fine-tuned because it is ultimately a trend today in the EU. No one has anything against these things. I still think the textile industry in the city of Osijek is a much bigger base production than what we read here. We also see here that we have scenarios, two, three scenarios, pessimistic, realistic, optimistic scenarios to implement this strategy. They're interested in reading what kind of scenarios are all together. There's no time to analyze now. But here you would especially use this last minute to draw attention to what was added in the second round added to this strategy, which is the processing of wood and the production of wood products that was placed in one difficult position for a simple reason that the main concessionary who lords the concessions has the greatest natural wealth in the Republic of Croatia, which is forest wealth is being treated with less and less hearing towards the development of certain spaces. I mean, we can't treat this production as a statistical category and wage business results at all costs, and while we ignore that in one Gorski Kotar of those 6 sawmills only people can work in those 6 sawmills, we closed the mail, we closed schools, there's no railroad, there's these 6, 7 sawmills that can't get enough raw materials from the main concessionaire and they're forced to fire workers. So is that a strategy that's good? These things cannot be affected by what European trends are, but we cannot say that we cannot rule in the right way with our good that is national and that should have other than statistical indicators, so as much as we end up earning millions, we should have a social, social, quality character and attitude towards our purpose. So we respect your efforts in making this strategy, of course it took a lot of work, a lot of knowledge and a lot of effort, and in this sense we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88385	Thank you. Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88386	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Horvat, you said that every attempt is a good try. That every attempt is not a good attempt to deny you exactly the document we're talking about today. I quote in a very important section on the 303 pages of this document, which is called an industrial strategy, says "The risk of the wrong step is great but the question of the reality of the alternative direction is raised (slow and undirected changes that would mean a safe loss of the race at global level of competitiveness and state development). More underdeveloped countries with potential in natural resources that allow for a competitive advantage in the respective areas must decide on a serious and courageous step because only in this way can they reach the level of development of richer countries in the medium term." I have to admit I'm relatively written, I've read this sentence a lot of times if I could understand it, that's probably what the promoter might explain to us. But let me still have a minute to say just one more thing, it's great and good to compare ourselves with far more successful and more advanced than we are, but we often forget how they have become so successful and how they have reached 30,000 euros and more per capita.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88387	Mile Horvat's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88388	Thank you. My fellow Milosevic, in any case, I accept your suggestion that perhaps the promoter should have certain parts and individual thoughts given in this strategy explained to us. But when I say a good try, I think every attempt to move something is actually a fair and good try. Because whoever doesn't do that and doesn't make mistakes, and he can't make any mistakes in the footsteps. This is the strategy from which I have experienced as some fundamental very broad framework and should now be from the fact that certain specialised groups provide concrete solutions and instructions on how to implement it. When you were talking about Germany, it's interesting information, in any case we all like to compare and refer to the Germans for a reason clearly because it's the state of order, because it's the state of knowledge, because in Germany right now some data say works somewhere around 42 million people in direct production and the state of capital has always been the state of capital. But what I'm saying is, in Germany, 42 million people work in direct production, it's a frantic data, and that's why it's not a problem for one economy to be rich, be more aggressive and not a problem to survive this economic crisis that others couldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88389	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88390	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you said that if I could say so, there were 50 large industrial producers in your area in Slavonia and Baranja in Osijek, it was precisely 50 large factories of industrial producers, and today these factories are replaced by large shopping centres, and that is actually the fundamental problem of the Croatian economy, so this economic structure. In the 1990 ’ s, these large companies that employed a huge number of employees collapsed, and large shopping malls were created in these areas. Obviously, our entrepreneurs in the 1990 ’ s opted precisely for the activity of trade because it is the activity in which money is fastest turned and which brings first a certain profit or profit. Unlike this example of yours in Međimurje County, where I come from, the most important activity is the processing industry, and only then comes trade and ultimately construction, and certainly such an economic structure is one of the most important reasons why the Međimurje economy is somehow easier to deal with with this long-term recession. So the processing industry is the activity that opens up the most jobs and produces the most goods for export and, in that sense, the Međimurje economy in 2013 marks an increase in the number of employees of 4%, and as far as exports are concerned, it is traditionally possible to say so for years twice as much as imports. And that's why this strategy is important, so this strategy is whether it's good or less a good try, but it's certainly good to bring it because it's exactly what we're going to show domestic investors and potential foreign investors, which is our orientation, and therefore the orientation of the Croatian economy must be primarily on the processing industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88391	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88392	Thank you, colleague. So it's known that privatisation was happening and it was clear that it was more cost-effective to privatise one factory, clean it up and sell it as a real estate for some other purposes. It was simply a one-time monster but not just with us in the Republic of Croatia, but in the entire eastern area of the former East, and of course everyone is paying the price now. And of course it's not an accident. I have my opinion on it, I don't think the whole process is random and it's not just authentic for our country. I think that certain geopoliticals worked very well, because cheap real estate had to come to a cheap workforce, a new market, had to be eliminated by a strong industry that was dominant in this area of the Balkans in the former countries of the former Yugoslavia whether they wanted to hear it or not, but it was one of the stronger economies in the area at the time. And apparently it bothered someone. Unfortunately, we now have consequences and I have no illusions that this strategic document can correct these things. We'll see if he can resuscitate them. I think it's a lot more complex to get out of this situation than this strategy is. This strategy is just one formal document that should, in my opinion, open the topic of debate whether we will be just a tourist country, just a agricultural country, whether we will be dealing with only some kind of ethnic tourism, ethic business or become a serious country with serious thinking, investment in the basic industry that has shown all the countries that have preserved their industry have survived this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88393	On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88394	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I didn't mean to start my presentation on behalf of the HDZ club in the past, but this debate has prompted me for a little while to get back to the past, so we need to take a rational look at where the Croatian industry was in the 1990s and what happened afterwards. In contrast to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary's Croatian industry and the Croatian state were created as we know in the imposed war on independence. At a time when the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and the like already attracted foreign investors, built and upgraded their industries, the Croatian industry was destroyed, first. Secondly, the market has been destroyed. So, the market that was probably then exported. I don't know the data back then until the 1990s, but probably more than 50, 60, 70%. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, of the unclassified, we know where she exported the former industry. It's the first part, so it's been the 1990s for those who don't remember. After that, Croatia entered the EU in 2013, not in 2004, when the same Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary entered the EU when there was money, when there were markets, when everything could absolutely be charged on the globe compared to the last few years, especially in the EU. Here, so much to start with. But let's go back to the document. So this document today, which represents the Government, or the RES, could be discussed with two levels. One level is political unbelief. Given that this document lists a whole series of strategic and less strategic measures all the opposite of what the government has been doing for the past three years, but I will return to that a little later. I hope there's gonna be time since my friend the Drinker won't talk, so I'm gonna get another 13 minutes. Like I said, I'll go back to credibility later. But aside from that, this is actually a good analysis of a part of the Croatian industry. That's certainly not enough to support. The problem with this Industrial Strategy is that it is not part of the economic strategy of the Republic of Croatia. So it's absolutely impossible to talk about an industrial strategy as it's imagined that there is no broader economic strategy. This is, of course, the strategy with which it is assumed that this current government as well as any subsequent one should come to power, take responsibility for the governance of the state. That's first and foremost. Furthermore, somehow remarks, although it seems to me that in our House or anywhere in society, you say criticism or observation means you're destructive. I think that you should get out of this framework and start listening to criticism and remarks not necessarily as destructive and think about whether it is true, rather than prejudicing the person who makes those remarks or criticisms. I'm here in some three groups of remarks, the main remarks on this document summed up. The first and perhaps biggest comment on this document on 350 pages. I hear that there are over 1,000 pages of that document in the original is the fact that you're actually absolutely nowhere to talk about customers, about markets. So, the promoter took it as a right to debate to the last detail and to analyse it without excessively giving real perspectives to parts of the Croatian industry, but that I did not find these 350 pages anywhere, seriously, especially in the last 40 pages, which I suppose should be the final part of the strategy debate on where this Croatian industry will compete more or less export. What are those markets? The European Union. What parts of the European Union? Where are we competitive? Which industries are competitive? The former Soviet Union, the Middle East, North Africa? So, this is what is minimal when it comes to the Industrial Strategy, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia would expect to perceive, if it does not already want to perceive the problem on the domestic market that the Croatian industry has in view of the decline in purchasing power and standards of Croatian citizens, and therefore, of course, the decline in production for the domestic market in conflict with the many competitive industries that are coming to the EU today, then at least it was necessary to discuss some kind of market where there is some chance for this export which is otherwise notable in general, unfortunately we would all like in this assembly I am sure that these exports are growing in two-digit figures. That's absolutely not true. After 1.7, the methodology changed. Listen to Croatian exporters, take statistics and you will see where Mr Milanovic represented a fake number of 14% export growth here a few weeks ago. Unfortunately, that's not true. We'd all like to, although we haven't heard that exports can grow without growing industrial production. But, well, I guess that's possible in Croatia. So let's get back to the market problem. So, the government took it as a right to insist on markets without, I apologize in sectors, without speaking about these sectors I think it should be appropriate to find 350 pages of some concrete companies from Croatia. It was supposed to be analyzed probably in those 1100 pages or 200% or something. Thus, the most successful and least successful in individual industrial sectors. So why are they the most successful, and why are these others the most unsuccessful or failed? I can tell you from personal experience, and here I think I also know a little bit about the Croatian personal experience industry, and that exists in absolutely every sector of a brilliant company today in Croatia and after six years of crisis, even in textiles. So we should have talked to these people there if they didn't, maybe, but we didn't see it there, how some of them failed in the textile industry and some of them worked, profit, employment and investment in the Republic of Croatia. So I don't think such things could have been avoided in industry, in the Industrial Strategy. Secondly, the second major remark on this document is that after 350 pages the promoter comes with 3 scenarios. With if I remember correctly pessimistic, real and optimistic. Imagine! According to literature, I think I remember well 12 pages of fine writing literature of all world's absolute brilliant people who know something about industry, it's literature of this document, but after all that, for many months, it seems to me for more than a year, the promoter comes with three scenarios. I don't know, it's unimaginable to me. So, if you are not able to take a stand after all of this and say it is a scenario that is expected by the Croatian industry for the next 7, 8 years, so I don't know why this whole document. It's completely pointless in that way to even finish the document, it's somewhere near the end. And the third part of the remarks refers to, I've already said that before and my colleagues, and it doesn't matter whether it concerns the SDP or the HDZ government, so a whole series of measures that have been taken in the past years and that should have somehow been valorised, rather than inventing hot water and listed as something that's just about to be created. Now let's not quote parts of the industrial strategy, but let's say there are funds of economic cooperation. They are not recognized even though the current government has not abolished them. There's a billion dollars in bills that aren't used today. So I ask what is the Industrial Strategy that allows, and the government that proposes at the end of the third year to mandate an Industrial Strategy that has done nothing for three years to save DIOKI, Gredelj with the same money that lies in the accounts of Croatian banks. A billion and hundreds of millions of kunas. So I'm talking, and not just me, a lot of us talk about these two companies as examples of not managing the economy and industry. So what challenge are we talking about? We're talking about two companies that own entire industrial sectors. Parts of Zagreb University educate people for these industrial sectors. DIOKI or DINA Petrochemy lies at 2 million square meters in Krk, one of the most interesting parts of the Republic of Croatia. Anybody care about that? Of course not. The river-Zagreb railway does not make sense to build if you will not make a railway in the north of the island of Krk, if you will not make it there, I apologize to Luka Rijeka. Well, there's a space within that DINA Petrochemy for the LNG terminal. If Croatia won't run the story with the LNG terminal in the next year, then I don't know when we'll start, when we'll use our geostrategic position. Is anywhere in this document, I allow I have not found twice I have read, nowhere has been recognised as a serious Croatian resource geostrategic position of the Republic of Croatia, especially today when we are in the EU. If someone thinks our geographical position is not a resource and for the Croatian industry is wrong. The logistics costs today in the 21st century are terribly important. Croatian port, Luka Vukovar in Danube, Corridor X, which connects Istanbul and Munchen, I mean nowhere. I don't know, I'm really surprised. And to go back to the end of the last sentence as far as the document itself is concerned, what is amazing to me is that in our small country, in the end, it is concluded that the working group of individual ministers that there are too many in the Croatian government will be responsible for the implementation of the Industrial Strategy. This is one of the most important potential, not this document, but the Industrial Strategy we agree Croatia should, one of the most important documents. And who will be responsible for that? A few resolute ministers who don't talk anymore. So I think if someone seriously thinks about implementing the Industrial Strategy, then it's probably the Prime Minister himself personally at the head of the entire government. There is no, I assure you, no ministry, given the number of obstacles to Croatian companies, exporters, production, to anyone in Croatia today, there is no ministry that has no fingers in the forest of bureaucracy and problems created by Croatian entrepreneurs who might invest, and most often do not invest anymore, invest outside Croatia for your information. I speak publicly, my friends, the people I know today have moved, moved businesses, worked in Berlin, Vienna, Miami. It's a Croatian reality. But no, there's no talking about it, there's all kinds of data. And go back to the end just a little bit more about the government's credibility. So the document of this Industrial Strategy on page 318 says: "In line with strategic development objectives defined by 4 key priority areas of the industrial strategy as follows: 1st creation of a stable investment environment." So if someone was able to destroy the stability of the investment environment, it's the current government. I would like there to be independent analysts in our country who, by comparing all EU members, would try to determine whether in the past three years anyone has tried so many changes in tax laws and taxes and contributions in their economy. I honestly doubt it. So when you talk to a normal average Croatian entrepreneur today, they shake because they don't literally know what the tax system of the Republic of Croatia will look like.01.2015. Unfortunately, neither does the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's a Croatian reality. And there's not to use the wrong word even though it's afternoon, so the courage to put in creating a stable investment environment, so that's funny. Secondly, it says, promoting strategic cooperation between industry and education, science and technology systems. This is the best part of the document, as regards education and the necessity to connect the Croatian economy, the education industry. Third, he says, restructuring public administration. What restructuring of public administration after 3 years? Has anyone noticed any restructuring and raising efficiency other than moving into overpriced areas of business, buying cars that are now lying in garages. Well, this government bought it seems to me I remember well 12 Audis that nobody drives in the end but lies in the garage. So how does a government that treats a state, or taxpayer's money expect it to put some real property into operation, so I don't know, I mean, I've been looking at this lately, and we're all looking at this with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so who's reasonable can do that please. So much for restructuring the public administration. And the fourth says the development of the capital market. The biggest contribution to the development of the capital market has been brought by this particular government that has brought us down to the level of garbage, our government bonds have reduced to the level of garbage. Today, the Czech Republic pays capital spending in the Czech transition country, perhaps more or less, as we unfortunately are below 2%. You know how much we have the cost of capital, for Croatia last time it seems 4.5 to me, and that's only because it's an incredible liquidity. So, as you probably know, both the American Fed and ISB, so the European Central Bank keeps an interest rate at 0. Money's never cheaper, so here's something like that and what crumbs come to us. What did we do after we joined the EU? Nothing, we crashed to the garbage level because this government doesn't have the courage to do anything. It's a reality, and now someone can say tomorrow that I'm politicizing that, unfortunately, all I'm saying here today on behalf of HDZ are clear arguments, evidenced even by the State Statistics Bureau led by a member of the SDP. No one in 25 years has been a member of one party as far as I know, a colleague of Shucker will know better, I don't think he's ever been a party head of the State Statistics Office. Otherwise, there is an official note from EUROSTAT, which is precisely the case. Here I could talk a lot and a long time about this document, not to mention the judiciary at all, the judiciary is important, but let's just say that maybe it's not necessary to talk about a single segment of the economic strategy, of course, about a judiciary that's terribly important, but I'm going to end up here somewhere with the judiciary. So, because without increasing the efficiency of the judiciary, we are going to be able to launch our entire economy and speed it up to the level of what is important. And in the last minute, I just need to remind you of the figures that are also on EUROSTAT's websites. It says this: Hungary has been increasing exports 9% over the past year, Slovakia 5%, the Czech Republic 6%, Croatia 0.9%. That's our numbers, that's our reality. So if you're stagnating, in the 21st century it's impossible to stagnate, you're lagging behind, just by not making progress, but stagnating significantly lagging behind. You're behind even for those who are objectively, I think that still on the list of those we can and should compare, which doesn't mean you shouldn't compare to the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88395	We're moving on to replicas. Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88396	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I don't know. We're probably discussing two different documents. So here we have an analysis of the macroeconomic environment, natural resources, human potential, an analysis of EU strategic documents, the situation in the EU. We are part of the European market, a respected colleague. Then we have the establishment of key industrial growth specifics, the definition of strategic objectives, indicators of the achievement of the objectives outlined, the scenario of industrial development, priority areas and measures for the implementation of the strategic objectives and implementation strategy, the preconditions and assumptions of successful implementation with scenarios that we know clearly, that we are taking responsibility to implement this strategy, to take responsibility for what if it is not implemented, to clearly describe how our industry will develop. And this is something that, you did not bring, you may not have had the strength, something you could not bring to take responsibility for the Croatian industry, and Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian citizens, to realize the possibility of growth and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88397	Domagoj Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88398	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Let's ask ourselves, when we hear from you like this, what century will that happen to you? However, to agree, you have the right to this government has the strength, this government has the power to, say, leave in four years a single 10 billion euros in new debt with interest growth. By the end of the term of office of the government, interest will exceed 10% of the cost of the state budget, which is a great power. This government has the power to destroy what little remains of Croatian citizens' standards. I'm not saying this like pulsism right now. See what it was worth 100 kuna and what an average Croatian citizen could buy in 2011 for 100 kuna and what he can do today. That this government had the power to raise the VAT when we were screaming here on this side of the assembly don't raise it in the fourth year of the VAT crisis. Croatians pay 25% of taxes on large majority of food products. Mr Gjurkovic needs strength for that. Well, it doesn't exist on the globe that someone pays 25% of their taxes on food. To the vast majority of normal food products that everyone should afford. So what do we have to talk about? It takes a lot of power to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88399	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88400	Comrade Milosevic, you mentioned the part in the strategy relating to three possible scenarios. So there's the pessimistic worst and the optimistic one. From this best we can probably assume that we have already given up in advance since the strategy which includes 2014, and now we are in the 10th month it has not yet been adopted. You also mentioned the part about the lack of strong targets that should move us in industrial development, but there are no key segments such as shipbuilding, no refineries in general. And what matters most is there's no local self-government. In this strategy, I have not seen where the measures relating to its implementation and relating again to local self-government and regional self-government which must create conditions for that industrial strategy. And again we go back to the scheme itself, and here we have on page 17. So all of these strategies that are listed there are ultimately an economic strategy, and it was supposed to be the one that should have, which was already given power in advance, to put all these strategies on it. So of all the things that we see here in that most pessimistic part and the saddest part is just that sentence that says that... studies couldn't come up with any data from ministry employees because they just didn't have them. It literally says from word to word. And then we're talking about some kind of optimistic variant, a strategy that included some kind of analysis that is valuable, which is good, and it's good that it's all covered in one place, but that applies to the period until 2013 when we joined the EU and covers 2014 which practically ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88401	Thank you very much. Domagoj Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88402	Thanks again. Well, yes, colleague Klaric, you said there aren't really any key goals. So how and how there will be when, if only I heard as well as everyone else, the prime minister of our country here says on an annual report that Croatia will not be a leader in the region. So Croatia will not be the leader in a region where Croatian companies, the only one in the world, have invested billions of kunas, perhaps the euro in the past 10 years. But that's not what the Croatian government is interested in, being a leader. The leaders should probably be in Antarctica, but not in our region. So now that we're a full member of the EU, what do we do now? We will now tell Croatian investors who have invested outside Croatia in the last 10 years, yes what? To shut down companies there or write down their investments? No, we're not going to use that expression and that potential we objectively have, not just a geographical position, but a lot of other. And now that I've already got another minute to say, so what I missed saying when I spoke for the club. So if someone doubles that state administrations and the government don't have... for their own economy, then the private sector is wrong. In the 21st century, I have a personal experience from 2011. Foreign ambassadors and government members are fighting for their private businesses and their industries. The experience of Croatian companies is that ambassadors laugh at them around the world when they come for help. Well, he says that's your problem, so that's not my problem. So then Croatian entrepreneurs, I know firsthand, are looking in that same region for foreign ambassadors to help them fight for their gain... because of course it is not the job of any administration, not one government. Since Croatia is not a very big and powerful country, then I assure you, what in one Kazakhstan may be done by the German ambassador, probably the Croatian Resort Minister, perhaps the Prime Minister, because so far we have seen that there is some desire, will and readiness for anyone from this government, except to travel from Australia to, I almost said Silicon Valley to the Silicon Valley to travel and we do not know why to babble around the world instead of selling products from Croatian companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88403	Thank you. Thank you very much. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88404	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you spoke in your debate on the restructuring of the public administration as part of this strategy, so you instructed certain examples. We really have to say, I don't know which times, but unfortunately there was nothing left of that public administration, and everything had already gone to, and as they perceived it from the other side, it was already visible at the constitutive session of the Parliament when the famous Lex pieces were passed when, in order for the government to even form a law where mayors, mayors, mayors, were to become leading people in the ministries without a choice in their place of others, so somehow it went beyond that. And then there was a complete stalemate of the professionalization of the state administration because the government estimated that the directors elected in public competitions were politically similar and, instead, they no longer needed it, that they should be inserted into the assistants. And then they put over 140 assistants in the state administration. Well, that wasn't enough either, and then it was thought that a certain number of people should be inserted into the cabinets of ministers without competitions, so they all come, but as they say they will leave when those ministers leave. Some of the ministers left, I don't know if they're the ones they brought in. And of course, that way, perhaps the most important part of this Plan 21 is to capture as many personnel as possible, and everything that might be achieved by some rationalization of business in the budget is not visible at all. And the best example is this state-owned company called APIS where, recently I'm reading, that director of theirs comes out and says he's been called daily to hire several of these members of the SDP, and he's already got over 100 there in the last three years. And it's like something commendable and it's kind of good and we all have to watch it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88405	Thank you very much. For pedagogical reasons, I'll just tell you my colleague... Thank you very much. At the time, my colleague Shex, when he was chairman, said for pedagogical reasons, he'd warn someone, but it's no use. He's not talking about APIS, fellow Milosevic, or the government's programme, etc. So you completely missed the line. Replication response, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88406	Thank you. ... But obviously not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comrade Boric, you're right. Well, that's, I've highlighted it on behalf of the club, it's part of the restructuring of the public administration. That's the point. Often, journalists ask me why there are no investments in Croatia, especially public companies that could be objectively in debt, have even some capital, so they often have a monopolitical position on the Croatian market. But you know what? Investments don't happen on their own. These are the projects that some people need to deal with, if all these people when you take power, and that's always the middle level of management, it's the middle level of governance, if you remove them all from order, what happened out there, even this government wasn't effective in a year, but it did it for two, three years. So, if you had brought geniuses to their place, which you didn't, it would have taken them six to 12 months to get into business. That's why there's no investment, no state-owned business, but... that's why the state administration can't do its job better than it does worse than it did three, four years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88407	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88408	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Milosevic, you said in your debate that despite the fact that the textile industry in Croatia has failed or one weighs a part of it, there are still successful companies. Well, I'll tell you, i.e. to set an example of the Međimurje County and the Varazdin County, and we could actually pass it on to all of northwestern Croatia. So in Međimurje County, the entire textile industry collapsed, let's say the MTC, which was the synonym of the textile industry in Međimurje County, Varteks in Varazdin County, kubura with difficulties. So the fact is that our traditional textile activities have failed, and on the other hand we have an example of Italy's Calcedonia both in Međimurje County and in Varazdin County one of the biggest actually concrete ones in Međimurje County for years the biggest winners. So on the basis of your experience, say what these are in your opinion, which is why our traditional Croatian textile activity is completely ruined, and on the other hand, textiles are doing great.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88409	Domagoj Milosevic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88410	Thank you. So it's no problem to answer actually I answered in that presentation on behalf of the club. So in order for any company, company, industry to be successful and even to exist, you have to have some three basic pillars on which this existence and prosperity of that company rests. The first is a stable tax legislative framework, which I've talked about enough, the second cost of capital must be said so at least close to competitiveness compared to what you have in the markets where you compete, so the EU will not even talk about those next. And third, access to the market. When you lose customers lose the market, the world is not waiting, competition is fierce outside Croatia in the EU and outside the EU you must also fight for the buyer. If you don't have any of those three which is the case in Croatia compared to the vast majority of the European industry, then you have serious problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88411	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88412	You mentioned in your speech several contradictions of the government, so you said when you compared some of the good things in this strategy, so you said that the government is doing the opposite of its actions and legal changes. In Chapter J, information and communication are listed some industries such as the audiovisual industry or the production of audiovisual content, which has increased 400% in the last three years under the law adopted in 2011. It is about foreign co-productions of the film most recorded in the Republic of Croatia, which in 2013 passed 100 million kuna of direct investment, so only in two years. At the same time as we bring such a strategy where it is listed as one of the potentials, where it is said that there is a clear competitiveness that is pointed out that there is the largest... return of funds on investment funds, at the same time the Ministry of Culture in Rebalancing and that the matter is more ridiculous in the announced media strategy, not at all, but rather on something called non-profit media. So the Minister of Economy of the CNS, the Minister of Culture of the CNS, when you take those two draft strategies, one writes directly to the other. All the changes and additions of the media laws that we had go directly against this, without talking about any budget or budget rebalancing where exactly what the industrial strategy points out as a potential is where the state's resources are being reduced. Other creative industries that I'm not talking about would be more science fiction if we tried to mention it here at all, although today in Europe it is part of what is considered the only one of the most potent and the EU budget is the most increased in this area in the next budget period.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88413	Thank you. I didn't notice you called in for an answer, thank you. Hope Turina-Djuric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88414	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Milosevic, I will look back... in that introduction you gave you looked back at Mr Horvat's debate when you started talking about the past and you said that the Croatian industry was destroyed or destroyed at the time of the Homeland War. I would agree with one part of that industry is also really destroyed, but a good part of that industry that was, for example, in Split, Rijeka, in Zagorje and even in Zagreb and in various other industrial centres of that time has not been physically destroyed although, of course, it was in enormous difficulties during the war because the market was disabled as such in that time to function in a normal way, but what happened behind work, and I expected of you because you entered politics relatively recently and you entered as a politician of new value. I remember that, in fact, as a new person from the economy, you were brought by Mrs. Kosor, and we all hoped and expected that you would permanently hold that position proactively one specific proactive position towards all projects in the economy, but now we see that you are still removing from that story. And I'll remind you that after the war, unfortunately this bowing Croatian industry, which was found on a much more substantially narrow market than it had worked on before it was systematically destroyed, and about how it was destroyed, you should get to know each other, given that your party had been leading economic policy within 25 years, and that it was actually one of the key moments when we destroyed the industry was the introduction of a VAT system headed by Minister Skegro when it was said that Croatia would live from VAT, from trade and services, and that it would be enough for us. It was the beginning of the end of the Croatian industry and the sale of Croatian resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88415	Thank you. The reply to the replica Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88416	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm inviting a colleague to explain to me on coffee my removal from the right path. So I hope you're really up next week here every time we meet here, so you'll certainly explain that removal from the right path. But I wasn't just talking about physical destruction. I was talking about the facts of the disappearance of the market that this industry has been lying on for decades. I was talking about being the nation's focus. Well, of course, what are businesses in Split, ok. They weren't destroyed by a direct bombing. So you think that's where people were thinking about how they'd travel to North Africa and export their products to the Middle East or do I not know in Kazakhstan then? I mean, let's be realistic. If anyone here has done something so real in life I have, so I know how these things work. So, the very fact that you were coming to do anything with the space where the war was being waged was absolutely putting you in third paper. What do we have to talk about? The security of delivery for those who don't know in the industry is very important. The buyer is king, not supplier in the 21st century. What they're going to say is, if the buyer doesn't have any certainty that you're going to deliver the goods to him, because you're coming with the war of the affected area, he's not going to talk to you. I mean, I'm saddened to say that you let yourself say something like this when we talk about the Croatian industry, and otherwise I mentioned the Gredel today. And Gredel and DEOKI, just to remind you, whatever has been going on in the past for all these 10, 15 years, 20 have not been bankrupt and no HDZ government would allow thousands of jobs to go bankrupt and shut down the entire sectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88417	Ivana Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88418	Thank you very much. A fellow Milosevic, when on behalf of the promoter there is no strength, will, and nothing more than 10 minutes, it says best how he experiences and experiences this document. However, we stick to the fact, what those who propose this document wrote, so the key problem of this document is that it begins with misjudgements and assessment of the situation, and that and what happens with such acts is the best example of the budget of the Republic of Croatia that constantly predicts some economic growth. We see how that whole story ends. If this document started with the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia in 2014 being around 1% and it will reach 2% and some more by 2020, and now it is evident that in 2014 there will be an economic downturn. Unfortunately, it will be in 2015. Thus, its final ending in 2020 is likely to go in another direction. But I'm saying if someone has nothing to say about a document like this for more than 8 minutes it's obviously an alibi document to throw a little bone into the public, to deal with it a little bit, to get parliamentary representatives to talk about it one day. However, this document as a excerpt that the resolution ministries should start operating on something, pass laws, make certain proposals and incentives to help the Croatian economy unfortunately does not exist. What does a restructure of the administration mean? So is 8 and a half thousand civil servants so much as a stumbling block that they cannot be forced to work and to serve instead of being the brakes of the economy. That's what they say best to those who have proposed this document. I think it would be better if they read all the sources of information. I think it'd be far more content and summary than what we heard today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88419	Domagoj Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88420	Well, yeah, you're right, you're a colleague of Shucker's. In fact, the very fact that the wood and food industries are so insignificant industrial branches are subsequently included in this document also speaks of the document as well as of the entire government. So probably Mr. Vrdoljak, the economy minister simply did not have the support of other members of the government in adopting such a document. They probably never found each other and talked seriously at some coordination. And it all makes sense, since as we've seen in the past few years, the government has no pilots, or our plane has no pilots. Or the pilot's actually getting more and more frequent lately on the plane, so then he doesn't get to do his job and actually oversee the work of his own government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88421	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88422	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow Milosevic. Here I'm going to try to look back in the replica at a few thesis that you've listed in your presentation, and the way I see what's really a key problem today and in our industry, and why this Industry Strategy was actually brought in, not the strategy industry. The biggest problem the government has faced in my opinion is a large amount of internal debt and indifference. There must of course be... tax debts, as they later started in the tax debt reprogramme, allowing certain taxpayers to get out of the problems they were in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, that then affected the low capitalisation of companies and the sub-investment of industry. These are, of course, you mentioned a judicial system that did not implement bankruptcy, in fact bankruptcy was carried out very slowly, and therefore it went into pre-curricular settlements which opened up a series of problems later. Public debt has also been mentioned often in the past, often and irrationally, so that this public debt has reached large amounts and then interest for this public debt increases the deficit. It is, of course, a health and pension system that is unsustainable and that is only missing 17 billion kunas in the pension system that need to be moved from somewhere. When we have a deficit, of course the credit rating goes down. What you're saying, but not that the government is guilty of it, but it's just that things have been pushed under the carpet for years. You just can't, you can, the government is always responsible, but not the way you say it. Now and exclusively this government is guilty of credit ratings. For years, debts have accumulated. There was a three-and-a-half billion hidden debt in health care alone. And then of course we're talking about investments. Then no one wants to invest if we have a credit rating like this. What was still a big problem in the past, which is tracking actually support. We have had a large amount of support in the Republic of Croatia that are not registered anywhere, not monitored. In fact, they have not been followed by their effects, which is most important in support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88423	Domagoj Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88424	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't think there's a strategy yet, I guess this strategy will just be adopted. However, respected colleagues in life are important trends. Trends are more important than your current situation in life, in politics, in anything. So, no doubt the situation is bad. The situation was not good even a few years ago, but today it is much worse and it is getting worse every year. Why? Because it shows and proves statistics. So, tax burden growth, reduced purchasing power of citizens. Over the past three years, the standard of Croatian citizens has proven to check on the DZS has dropped 10% I guess the public debt that was created over the past three years is probably not responsible HDZ. Well, I guess this government managed something, so she had the right to do something to keep 20 billion kunas a year or how much we're going to see how much this year is going to be, and I'm afraid it's going to be a real deficit close to 20 billion. Well, I guess that's her responsibility. Or do you really think HDZ should be responsible for government this year? I guess so. I know that SDP is used to being in opposition, that you're not used to making decisions, that you're not used to working, that's what we see in these three years. But don't go too far as we're responsible for 2014, probably 2015. I think it's still too much. And you mentioned pre-fashion settlements, just one more sentence about pre-fashion settlements. You know, unfortunately 90% and more pre-war deals will end up in bankruptcy. Why? Because at first we're saying that we should have put the whole process in another way. So, the pre-fashion deal that HDZ supported at the very beginning is not a bad tool as well as any tool if you know how to manage it, but without the free capital. And for some companies, especially large where the number of employees is large, funds of economic co-operation needed to be used. Is that done? It's not. The money lies on accounts I've already said to Croatian banks. It was probably the idea, so it was presented to us, that the forerunners would keep their jobs. Unfortunately, that won't happen in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88425	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88426	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If we accept one of the criteria mentioned earlier by fellow Shuker how much time it devotes to which topic it is so important then this topic Industrial strategy is very important and very interesting and very good and very interesting because here we entered deep in the afternoon and the clubs have not finished the debate yet. That means we're gonna have a good day's talk about this. Therefore, if we comply with this criterion, this is obviously an important topic and obviously a good discussion document. Therefore, it is an immediate answer to whether one of these strategies is needed. I'm sure it should, and it shows that the debate here in the Parliament today. We often hear in public, in the media from businessmen, and even from us here how we need to produce more and how we need to produce more and how we do not have enough production, how we have become a nation that only buys and trades, etc., and nothing produces. That's a good part of it that can stand. So this is an opportunity to say that we need to produce more, we need to focus on production, and where it comes from, rather than from industry. Of course, production can be something in the primary sector, agriculture, mining, we don't have, but what we certainly need to pay far more attention to is production in that secondary sector, in the processing industry. And it is this strategy that most of all speaks of this segment, so on the processing industry, along with construction, of course, the ICT sector, etc. Is this study, is this Industrial Strategy good? Be careful, it is extremely analytical and it is a very good study and analysis of the situation of course but does not only end up in an analysis it gives both indications of what is needed and how it is necessary to work, determine goals, tasks and ways to do so. And if you don't have a good analysis of your condition, and I'm saying this study is a good analysis, because if you don't have good analysis, if you don't have good diagnosis, then you can't, as in medicine, if you don't have a good diagnosis, then you can't give a good drug, either here or here. So a good analysis has to be made and it's really there to see where we are and see what we want, so to set goals and how we do it. We are all aware that Croatia is not well in economic terms, that we have a decline in GDP. Of course in that part very important place is industry. The truth God has been talking about only 10 quarters of decline in Croatia recently this year, it's just that it's 10 quarters of GDP down. I say and repeat if it were really only for us in Croatia to have a 10-quarter drop that would be extraordinary. And in those 10.5 quarters, we did it if I could say the cumulative drop in GDP is 2.5%. If those were our basic problems, we wouldn't have any problems. Everyone's been silenced on purpose, especially those who know why they're doing it, so some media probably know why they're doing it, too. Why? So they don't tell the whole truth. And the full truth is that Croatia has not 10 quarters in decline but in the seventh year. But if you say that, and that's full of truth, then you have to say it was during HDZ and it's not nice to hear from some. Therefore, unfortunately, I always speak with arguments, unfortunately in these seven years Croatia has a 12.5% GDP drop in these 7 years, of which 9.5% goes to HDZ soul, and here we are 2.5%. So, you don't need to hide things because if we're hiding them... Do you want a fellow Shuker here? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because I can't, you're distracting me. No, no, but a little quieter, please. So we admit 9.5 index points is HDZ's fault, and there's 2.5% of ours. So, so much for facts. Of course, we expect industry to ensure, to give its pain to growth in economic development and overall GDP because we know that GDP therefore makes public consumption, personal consumption, investment and exports. Who's gonna give out the goods for export? Well, first of all, industry. Unfortunately, in the primary sector, agriculture does not have much, but in the food industry, in other parts of the industry, we certainly have opportunities and strength and we have space and we need to look for it. That's why industry is important, and that's why this strategy really matters. There have been words here today around exports, that you know in Croatia that something has happened in the last year, two days of positive events are trying to degrade it, how much of it I'm saying with zucchini that it's not true, etc. We are fortunate and some, unfortunately, export growth. My colleagues at HDZ are not happy, I don't know why. One party that holds on to being patriotic would be glad when her country goes forward. Had a growth in exports, of course, and a change, that there was a change in a certain methodology. However, at the heart of the change in the waste methodology, 2 to 3%, but most of these exports are really increasing. But from what we've heard, fellow Milosevic talked about it, we've heard it in days, at a rally of exporters something about the methodology, but we've heard another fact of course he wants to silence, but I don't, because it's also true, which is that we haven't had in the last two years of exporting ships, that we don't have oil and derivatives exports, and if they were in quantity, so to the extent that our exports were even 30% higher in the previous years. So obviously, the increase in exports we have from other branches, not from the shipbuilding industry and the oil industry that was before, but really from other industries, and that's a fact. When I spoke at the beginning, therefore, the state of industrial production with us, and here we have a gross social product drop. So, since 2008 since the crisis started, I've had a 20% drop in industrial production. Not to be, not to repeat most of it, unfortunately, I have to say, and I feel sorry for the HDZ government, most of it is going away for their period. But what we have to do, and what our goal is and what we said in this Industrial Strategy is that we want industrial production to have a greater share of the gross social product. In the 1990s, we had 22% of the share of industrial production in gross social product, today it's 16%. In 2020, therefore, we aim to increase the share of industrial production in the total social product to 20%. This strategy is one of the tools that will try to reach that goal. Here some favorites are listed in the strategy, some branches that should be, if I may say so favoured by our favorites. However, it is necessary to say that neither other is excluded because most of the measures proposed in this Industrial Strategy are horizontal in nature and apply to all. Therefore, not only those that are counted in the strategy, but also others so that no one is actually excluded, and if some particular attention is given these days. And what matters, which is that this strategy as a document is not a closed book, it can be discussed today, and here, and before and discussed was a broad debate, and possible even after this debate. So, it can be refreshed, complemented, upgraded and after the debate is over, after the adoption here in Parliament is completed. Now, what do you need to change? First of all, it is said that a stable investment environment must be created, to ensure legal certainty or stability, that there will be no certain legal changes that every investor will want to invest there, to be safe, to make sure that there is no change in the law and regulations as it sees today and with which it will not be devalued tomorrow. And in that sense, I think this government can give a guarantee that it won't change. In the end, why is that? Because here's the last 2.5 years since this government led us into no serious legal project, no solution, etc. which would be harmful not only to industrial development but to the overall development of the economy. We have had certain changes in the laws that apply to this, but then it went into the meeting and towards the incentives of the economy rather than the other way around. Therefore, of course investors want the stability of the tax system, a legal system that will not change. Of course, we've changed it to certain segments, for example. We said that in the amendments to the Tax Tax Act, one who wants to invest that on those assets that will invest therefore on the income tax. What happened before? It was that he paid off the profits, put it in his pocket or invested it, you pay the tax equal. Therefore, as soon as someone was stimulated to invest in nothing but some economic reasons. We said no, she gets that goes into her pocket she'll be taxed and the one that invests won't. Do entrepreneurs object to that, no. Is that a change of the IRS, is it? But of course, where luck can make such tax changes even more, they'll only benefit. The second we talked about, what I talked about in the strategy, what to do, which is therefore better co-operation between industry and education systems. I won't talk about it much, I can even see that HDZ colleagues support it, think it's very important, and we agree on that. Therefore, to make longer-term planning of the necessary personnel, those who are really needed and those who need it to be a public interest and to finance it. Whoever wants to be educated, and if that's not the state's need, pay it out of his pocket. So I'd say that this government is doing it consistently, and we've introduced for everyone a free study that regularly implements its obligations within this gauge and the figures that we've drawn up, which are needed by the state, and if someone wants to go beyond that or study for 10 years, or beyond those quotas, then let them really pay for it. Thirdly, it's a public administration restructuring. I don't think there's much to talk about. Expectations are, demands are the need for administration to be more efficient, and more responsible not only for the state but for the entire public administration and local, and at local levels. I shall state one example when a specific activity is carried out in one facility and after one entity comes another entity that will carry out the same activities before it has to be, therefore, that new entity must seek minimum technical conditions at the beginning. Although it's the same activity, the same thing is just changing the company. Now we've said that you don't have to and that these minimum technical conditions can be passed on to another company. But I'm going to give you an example of how that is, for example. In the field, they do so by not writing it anywhere in the law, although it... does not say so, by asking those who come to them to bring the documents that the one who used to be no longer has... the conditions, and they give him the solution that they are gone. So now you have to bring the paper to them, the paper they gave to the other one yesterday, you have to go look for it. That's how our administration does it on the ground. That's what can't happen. This is not by any law that can be solved by any decision but by simply working patiently on the ground to make these people do what is right. And the fourth or most important thing that is needed is to ensure a better, cheaper and different funding election. There is no development of any industrial branch, any economic branch, and no industry with expensive loans, with interest of 8.9. 10% there is no development. And here we are at the beginning uncompetitive with other companies in our environment in Western Europe which is now surrounding us and with which we now live in the same economic community. The companies in Germany have for development, for projects loans from 1.2 to 3, maximum 3%, and with us 7, 8% and 10%. Of the same banks, Raiffeisen, these or those. Of course you're in the beginning impossible to be competitive, it's like going running with a rock tied to your leg, with someone who's free. And that's what we have to change. How? Now that's a harder question. I think we all need to start talking about it, ask us to be even at that table and also at the financial table because how these banks, how that same capital is that we understand each other, can, be paid to place it somewhere up to 3%, and here they're looking for an 8% interest. They say you're a high-risk country. Well, of course, you've declared us that way and we'll always be a high-risk country as long as you give us such loans. So that's something that we need to clearly and loudly order, so... or... capital that we want equal status in that part and that we want to develop equally with the others. There is the only exception to HABOR, which really encourages the domestic economy and domestic exports and industry in this regard. In the last two years, about 2 billion kuna, although not many in the budget, managed to place it towards HABOR precisely for... its role in the development of the economy and industry. Finally, no strategy will lead to an increase in neither industrial production nor economic growth in itself. But it gives certain goals, therefore, intentions and ways to do so. The one who has no clear goals, every time he's good, the one who knows what kind of goal he wants to choose the best way, this strategy is one of the best ways to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88427	Thank you. Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88428	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Jelusic, I'm now after listening to you even more concerned, honestly. So, given everything you've said, everything so brilliant and smart and great you've done it all together, and the results are gone, the results are getting worse. The investment is gone, economic growth is gone, unemployment is growing, in fact, if we were to include all those pieces that went out of Croatia and those who retired from the work bureau. So, yes, we all care about this country regardless... but you have one problem that's been following this government for three years, which is spreading false optimism or you'd say, the government loves these English expressions,... managing expectations. It's one of the problems of this government from the very beginning. Your prime minister said at the beginning of the term of office... and thus sent a Bajatu message, now you'll see how it works. What happened after that, unfortunately for all of us, is history. History in the European scales of failure and debacle of economic policy of this government. And the results are unfortunately, I have to tell you the executioner. The next government will be welcomed by a state on the verge of bankruptcy and you know it well. That's the first one. Secondly, you were talking about where the SDP took over. Well, yeah, you took over at the end of 2011, what I'm saying now shows numbers for 2011. The decline in tax burden, the completion of EU entry negotiations, the note, the EU today is the only stabilising factor of the Croatian economy. If we hadn't finished negotiations and we weren't in the EU today, the price of capital would have been even higher, far higher. Furthermore, two quarters of 2011 was GDP growth, 0.6. 0.8%, not much, but it is a technical exit from recession. And yes, psychology is important, and it is therefore wrong to spread false optimism rather than founded. That is why we need to seriously talk in the Croatian Parliament about real figures, not manipulate numbers. That's why when you create false expectations, the disappointment that follows is murderous, and the economy is the consequence, the economy... is not itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88429	Thank you very much. Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88430	My fellow Milosevic, I agree with you not to spread false optimism, but worse than false optimism is the false pessimism that you spread even more, and I am against any lies but for the truth. And the truth is next, so call it false optimism or whatever you want. If we still had export growth, if we did, that's what I was talking about earlier, I hope I don't have to repeat it. ... The second thing is that in the last year from August of last year until August of this year, 205,000 people from the employment office found a job, they got a job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 205,000, left the office by finding a job, not by deleting it from the records. In Croatia. You see, colleagues from HDZ don't even know it, you're surprised, you don't... hear it, but I'm glad that's how it is in our Croatia,...ten years, in one year, 205 thousand from the office didn't find a job. It's a sign that something positive is happening. It's hard for you to hear it, you don't like to hear it, but give a little bit of your patriotism to direct, not just to.... For you, Croatia is only important and important if you are in power, if you are not in power, you are not interested in Croatia. We are interested in Croatia and when we are in opposition and when we are in power and that is why we are glad to really be people, to increase employment, so we are glad that this is happening, we will welcome it one day and if you are in power, of course, I hope that I will welcome it... for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88431	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, at our gallery, I welcome a group of representatives in the European Parliament as well as representatives in the national parliaments of EU countries staying in Croatia to donate funds in the restoration of children's playgrounds in flooded Slavonia. Let's say hello and thank them. Thank you very much. Clear Mesic injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88432	Dear Madam Vice President. An injured article by the Rules of Procedure failed to find out exactly but it is an insult of one representative or more MPs if Mr. Honorable Representative Jelusic said that we do not care about Croatia except when we are in power. Where did you get this right? Where do you get the right to tell a group of people, a whole stranger or any of us? Where did you get this right? Where do you get the right to tell someone that he doesn't care about Croatia? How do you afford that? Have you ever heard of me telling you or one of your colleagues? Where do you get the moral right to judge who cares about the country and how? I'm just calling myself that I never said that. What right do you have to judge and evaluate others and give yourself divine prerogatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88433	Thank you. Time's up, you didn't show any damage to the Rules of Procedure because you didn't say which article was injured. And in this assembly, we've heard a lot from this not being a national government until I know what else, and then one tolerance threshold should be on one side and on the other. We continue with replicas, colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88434	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You told your colleague Jelusic in your debate that there was no quarter with economic growth or GDP growth, so 2011 was a year with two quarters in which we had recorded GDP growth, so two quarters in which we rose above water almost 1%. It was minimal but it showed a trend, it was a fact that we didn't have a budget rebalance. I am saying this because after this every year we record 2.3 rebalances annually, so there was no budget rebalancing, although we have included 4 billion kunas of new commitments to both the EU and pensions and other expenditures in the frozen expenditures of the election year. And the fact is that in that year we recorded the growth of exports and the growth of industrial production means there were a lot of positive indicators. That's what I'm saying because I think I have the right to mention it, here's a colleague who insists on pointing it out, but of course we would never mention who was running the government at that point, that was the year we ended up having a tough and hard negotiation and recorded what kind of growth without increasing the price of electricity, gas energy. That the government that came here continued to implement the economic recovery programme that we presented in 2010 had not been raised by VAT, the prices of energy had not been raised, I am sure that today the situation would have been somewhat better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88435	The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88436	Dear colleagues, Kosor, I'd rather you listened to what I said and gave a replica of what I said than to make up something I didn't say and then replicate it. So I never said especially not in today's debate that I wasn't talking about that there wasn't a growth I said in that year not in neighborhoods. You're talking about neighborhoods me about the year. It is also true that as much as anyone liked it or not, I am sorry that it was, but there was no GDP growth in that year 2011. It was in two quarters that but in the other two there was an enormous fall, so there was no total annual level. So I was saying, let's not talk about neighborhoods, let's talk about age. Why and I'll do it again for you, but also for others? Because only 10 quarters have been talking about lately, because it's been going down since the SDP's been in power. and no one will tell the truth, and the truth is unfortunately much worse, which is that we don't have growth for seven years. ... Okay, six, seven, six, not to count now in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, good 7th year 6th well, but nothing is diminishing by it because it does not want to say it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's talk of neighborhoods taking a quarter methodology rather than a year. Why? Because if you're talking about years, you're going to have to talk about that there was no growth during HDZ, but the truth is, unfortunately, that's how it is. And as a rule, it's always shown at the age level... 30 years ago, no one's been talking about neighborhoods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now a quarter methodology has been introduced because it fits the HDZ but it's really growing that year, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88437	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88438	Thank you very much. You have rightly pointed out that there is no source of funding for certain activities in Croatia. So each strategy is accompanied by instruments, one of the instruments necessary to implement any strategy is the source of funding. No production without credit activity. And what kind of strategy does this provide for increasing production and simultaneously selling the only state-owned bank? So we want to increase the financing of domestic production when we know that foreign banks don't want to finance production in Croatia at all? Is this a strategy that fits into each other, complete? What about the instruments? And most importantly for production, a state that has no production is not a state, and production has no business of credit and no low cost of financing. Croatia has the highest funding costs, thanks to those. And systematically we have a strategy for destroying small banks, and small banks are the only ones that lend domestic economies. But we have it systematically. Of course, I'm against a strategy that's been worth exporting centuries-old oaks so far, and we're importing matches. That's inadmissible. But we also need to know that this strategy has many shortcomings. There is no evaluation of strategic alternatives. It is not a strategy we will increase industrial production or increase agricultural production. The strategy is exactly what we're going to produce. We're not going to produce televisions, but we want to produce transmitters because RIS can and let's help specifically with these and these measures, that's going to be our orientation. But RIS is even making it impossible for the state to do what it can and can not even help it, let alone credit activity. If we're going to make barley or not, whether we're going to produce wheat or not, and what we're going to produce. It's a strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88439	Thank you. Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88440	Comrade Maric, I agree with many of these things you said with the fact that it is not a replica of my presentations. I didn't say it, I didn't dispute it. But, well, I allow you to bring your argument through the replica. What you said, which I agree with you, is that it's hard for me too, and I'm glad that you agree with my view that it's difficult to develop any industrial branch, any economic branch with these sources of funding. We agree, and my appeal has just been that this is something that needs to be changed, and this strategy is talking about it. So the banks act the way they behave, and I've been talking about it. But we need to secure alternative sources through funds, etc. where we'll get cheaper capital. Now, you object, you say we want to sell the state bank to the only one, etc. If it's a problem selling state banks or if it destroys the economy or if it's a bad move, then you're a general after the battle. What did you do in the '90s when all the banks were sold out? Why didn't you, when that process was started if it's a bad thing that you didn't say when it was bad? But let's leave it now is that... But what is important is that we have a Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is owned by the state and which has been established by the state for twenty and more years precisely with the purpose of financing domestic development, domestic exports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government has in the last two years, so two billion kunas which are not enough in the budget, I say, directed towards it and that we are aware of what this means for the Croatian economy and the Croatian industry. That is, if I may say a modest contribution, although not modest of this government. So, ensuring cheaper and better sources of funding. But let's try to find them even more and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88441	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88442	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Jelusic, I don't think I just want to pollute with you about things where you simply won't admit the facts. But there is something that is simply a fact and it is the law that passed this House of Commons, which is that the dividend tax is basically paid only by Croatian companies. All those who have earned the highest profit in all these years are financial, telecommunications, insurance companies. They are not owned by the Republic of Croatia, but owned abroad. The Republic of Croatia has signed a double taxation treaty with these countries, and the provision on taxation of dividends does not apply to them. At least that's what you should know when you're talking. Thus, dividend tax was paid exclusively by successful Croatian entrepreneurs, which is a fact. And when you talk about macroeconomic indicators, at least look at page 25 of your government's documents, so you'll see that you're wrong and you're telling the truth all the time. And as for the sale of banks, look at the income of the national budget in 2001, 2002, so you will see the Bank of Commerce, Rijeka Bank, Splitska banka you sold, just as you sold the HT control package. Therefore, it is not good to talk about certain things in order to do day-to-day political things. If we want to help Croatian entrepreneurs with this document, then we need to talk about facts, and you are talking about macro-economic indicators all the time. Page 25 clears you out and therefore I don't think there's any need to discuss it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88443	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88444	A fellow Shuker, that I spoke in Condicional if. So if the bad move was the sale of banks why didn't we start saying that in the 1990s when the process started, the whole privatisation process, the conversion. So, if it is. Therefore, when we opted for a market economy, then it was simply the 1990s when we set out in this concept of development that was simply the inevitable. It's inevitable, whether you like it or not. Therefore, it cannot be a market economy, but it can be state-owned companies and state-owned banks. I mean, largely owned, it can't. So we simply chose such a path because we wanted to. As for counterpart Shuker's dividend tax, it is true that he is only paid by those residents, so those who are in Croatia. But what did we do? We said that if this entrepreneur lives and works in Croatia if he makes a profit, God has given as much as possible, if he pays the dividend he will pay the tax to the state and then put the money in his pocket. And if he's reinvesting that money, he won't pay his taxes. And that's the important difference we've made. So, to distinguish from stimulating an entrepreneur to make the money that he normally legally makes in his company, to reinvest, to put him into new development. And that was a taste of changing this tax on, taxing therefore get, that's exactly where it's going. So it's just stimulating for the economy, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88445	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88446	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Comrade Jelusic, you said, you were partly boasting about the consistency of this government in measures and helping the economy and saying that this part of the HDZ colleagues is looking forward to the failure of this government which is not true. There was always talk of rationalization, of cost-restriction. Remember the fiscalization, and the revenue actually isn't as much as we've heard by the end of this year will be missing 19 billion kuna. The GDP drop was 11 quarters in a row, and the total foreign debt and public debt was 46.6 billion. We're not looking forward to the failure of your government, definitely. If you remember also through the Club of Representatives of the HDZ and the representatives themselves in plenary debates, as well as at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament board, we pointed to the failure and execution of the economic, particularly fiscal policy of the current government. We have opposed if you remember frequent changes, especially tax laws without valid analytical bases and misjudged the effects of these changes. We have then criticised both arbitration and unpredictability in the application of tax and not only tax regulations by competent administrative authorities and inspection services, which has further affected the creation of an anti-enterprise climate, and thus the fall in income. The HDZ advocates' club was against raising VAT rates, increasing income tax burdens, taxation of foreign pensions, retroactive profit taxation, announcements of savings and real estate taxes, believing that in fact all these changes and announcements of change would lead to negative consequences for both the economy and the citizens. In fact, the current economic and social situation is a confirmation of all our predictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88447	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88448	You've said a lot to your colleague, I won't be here in two minutes to answer everything. But there will be opportunities in this assembly. First, you said you weren't looking forward to bad results. I wish I did. But unfortunately, you're always looking forward to it, and you're happy to talk about it, not saying it's crazy. And when something's right, you don't want to hear or argue. When I say that 200 thousand people from the Employment Service found a job, so not deleted, you to that malts that don't whistle at me here because you're wrong about what's going on. So don't do it, don't say it when it's good, say it's good, even if you're not in power. So here I have appealed, there is no fellow Mesic now, to be a little more patriot and to love this Croatia and when you are not in power. But it only matters to you when you're in power, everything's fine, and when you're not in power, nothing's wrong. That's what I've been talking about, and I'll always say that, but not what I'm going to say is even more important what the citizens see. You're talking about taxes, changes in fiscal, taxes, etc. We haven't passed any laws, no acts that are anti-entrepreneurial. If we said that the profits that are reinvested will not be taxed, is that anti-entrepreneurship? No, we're just stimulating him to invest. So when we introduced the dividend tax, why not? Look, if a worker, every employee pays a tax on his salary, why wouldn't that entrepreneur when he pulls out the profits pay for it, too? What are they privileged to do? We have a profit tax at 20%, but the dividend tax wasn't. And now that someone puts money in their pocket doesn't pay taxes on it, and everyone who's employed has a slightly higher income and pays 25% and 40% at the rate. Why do employees have to pay? So workers can pay and those who have and live off capital shouldn't pay taxes? That was your policy. I accept, it's your policy but it's our policy that those who live on capital should pay the same tax as those who work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88449	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88450	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. They told me when I left the bench whether my speech would be sharp or I'd speak like Mother Teresa's treasure, but it's hard to speak softly, yesterday it was St. Therese Avilska, but good. So, there was a kirva in Bukovlje, and our Minister of Jakovina is from Bukovlje, right? And it is hard to talk about Croatia and the situation in the Croatian economy and industry if we could quote a free, completely free song A.G. Matoša, which is fully active today after 105 years as Matoš wrote about 1909, on the hangings dry as a rod on the lips wall, the wall of shame. This is exactly how Croatia is in a situation 105 years after the song was written by Matoš. Severe patients require consular treatment. We doctors, I'm not an economist and maybe I'll be a little bit like this my speech and debate on the other side turned but I'll say what I think. So, he requires a consular treatment of several branches of medical professionals, so here's when he comes to surgery, you consult an intern, you consult an infectologist, a pediatrician for a child, etc. Today, our minister here explained in 10 or 5 to 10 minutes a material that has 323 pages written by a prominent institution such as the Zagreb Economic Institute on the proposal of the Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014. What did she write it for? For something that almost doesn't exist or exists in the tracks. In fact, this strategy should be called Croatia's re-industry proposal. Because the Croatian industry has been destroyed. And when someone here says you shouldn't talk and come back, that me and my club often go back to the topics of the past, then first, and the club and myself personally, then the first thing I would answer is that without looking back and without the past and verifying its past, there's no future in Croatia. And secondly, when doctors write about a patient, they write about a history of disease. So they're taking a history of what happened to the patient, so how did this come about today, which is why we're bringing in a strategy that needs to be made clear. Here is the former Yugoslavia in 65th year wrote a business reform and then 200 thousand Croats or 300 thousand Croats left Croatia with the belly of bread. So this strategy will seem to pass to me, and it is already on its way to overcoming that figure, that the number of Croats leaving, young people of a fertilised age, is going to go to Western EU countries, but also those overseas, overseas, in Canada, New Zealand, Australia, America, etc. and even Brazil. Someone here said they'd hire my pensioners to work, so it's not the same thing. Whether Croatia will become an oasis or the largest retirement home in the EU, is this the EU's intention to become in view of its benefits and circumstances of natural and climate change to become a truly European nursing home. Is this a strategy of development, industrial development or I do not know any other developments of the Republic of Croatia, or the national strategy of the Republic of Croatia. I don't like it a bit that instead of young people, educated people, we hire someone who's earned or worked 40 years and worked for my job to say pension, 13th strategy, here. Usually, a strategy is made when someone comes to the hair, and then brings a strategy that they will implement during their power. I've actually had 13 exit strategies here, because in a year there's a new election and most likely a change, here I am not going to be a psychic Milan, that I know who will come to power. But actually what is now being done, which is that as someone says here is privatized by the only Croatian bank, the Croatian Post Bank to monetize Croatian highways is really similar to the exit strategy. Let's patch up the holes we have in the budget, that's about 20 billion kuna, no matter what someone swears it's going to go for a loan, that we don't know, that's how this government worked is hard to believe that that's how it's going to be. Apparently, the election is at the door, and now we're counting neighborhoods, quarter falls of a gross social product I don't know, 10, 12 quarters. So we have our Croatian word for four years, we have city districts etc. Why neighborhoods, when we're old. Someone says six years of GDP fall, someone says seven years of GDP, some like to say GDP or so on, English words. Croatia's credit rating is not garbage, but rather a minister who likes English expression would say shit. It is precisely in that rank that the Croatian credit rating of the last, so under the trash I don't know what else might be. And there we are now bringing strategy, so a proposal for an industrial strategy or a re-industriousisation of Croatia. That we are hundreds of times here, we are not only talking about history but also about the present and future of Croatia, we are talking about exports and imports mainly in agriculture that are causing catastrophic damage mainly to Slavonia, that Slavonia is completely deindustrized, and that's what one of my predecessors was talking about, I think Mile Horvat. And not to mention other places, here's Gaj, Podravska Slatina, here's Jasinja, Slavonski Brod, here's Slavonia Wood Industry, Đuro Đaković in Slavonski Brod, Stjepan Sekulić wooden industry in Novi Gradišca, which hasn't all disappeared in wild and savage privatisation since 93. And now we have a state of total deindustriousization of the Republic of Croatia. And now we're going to bring a strategy of course written by a respected institution, which analyzes even the causes here, which gives podastier numbers from 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010 to 2012. And what exactly is it after? In turn, we do, that the high price of capital and credit, that from Croatia various routes say there are not hundreds of billions of kunas, but hundreds of billions of euros. Is it true or not I can't count it, but some who have dealt with the problem say that the amount from Croatia is in these 22, 23 years of Croatian survival, about 300 billion euros has been exported from Croatia. The gray economy, no one mentioned it today. The other day I heard that the grey economy is about a year-on-year in terms of one Croatian budget, the annual budget, about 120 billion kuna or a third of GDP, about a third of GDP, that is one Croatian annual budget, the grey economy. Where's the biggest, where's the biggest gray economy? In construction, craft, small entrepreneurship, etc. I see nothing here in the strategy, here I see the rationalisation and restructuring of public administration, and as someone has already mentioned I would not want to quote it about various agencies in the state administration that should co-operate as agricultural land, unite, and not that one agency has and employs exclusively personnel from one party, I will not mention any party in this speech today, or any quarter, so 400 employees. It has a very interesting name, like the one from the Black Hand Dimitrijevic, Apis so-called. That's what Apis was called, but it's history, I won't talk about it, I said I won't go back to it much this time. Who will implement the re-industrialisation strategy? The healthy and tough part of the industry that survived all the robberies and privatisations, corruption and crime and all that. The rest of the relics, as someone has already said, are the relics of the Croatian industry, and on that part we will actually build re-industriousisation. With what? At a high cost of 4, 5, 6%? Unlike countries that have 1% or 2%, therefore the interest rate at the price of capital. Hard, very hard. Second, we're changing tax policy any minute now. What is it important for the investor to come to us, invest something in Croatia? Legal certainty is important, regulation is legal, secure, tax security is important and financial discipline is important. Mr. Former Minister here said the payment deadline is 60 days, and no one pays within 60 days. What does that mean? That no financial discipline has been established in this country. Despite three years of working this government and I don't know, a strategy and plans called 21, 25, ask you God how, and it doesn't really matter. Tax uncertainty is what we know about, and we are changing legislation a little bit, a little bit. In the Croatian Parliament, we have the additions and, as they are already called, changes of the law, at any moment. Here, we've changed the network of courts already, so I don't know anymore, five times, six times, etc. Little by little, biting. The Croatian forests and the wood industry, since I come from Slavonia, would give you a lot to talk about. Many entrepreneurs who do business, therefore by manufacturing not wood, but by wood products, have consulted me and said that they are being held back by Croatian forests in the supply of material. Have the Croatian forests really become... and we know how the administration of the Croatian forests is determined, who determines them and whether those people who don't really understand the processes, as someone said here, are the circular industry, as they are in Europe. So the circle is something that closes like a cycle in medicine... so from wood to that match or chair or parquet, etc. There's one cycle that, then sawdust, so it can be used there for thermal power plants, etc. We're exporting logs. The energy and heat in Pechuh, Hungary, uses Slavonic wood for, and the logs are driven to Pechuh across the border, so now there is no, the EU is, without customs, without anything, and the logs are exported from Slavonia, and the Slavonia wooden industry is almost on its knees. And there's a little thing that came out here and I don't want to say, you know, the manufacturer's way of saying it, we all know what it is and what the stores are doing, so there's something and there's a little series and that's all. About agriculture... the destroyed agriculture, the destroyed processing industry. Today is the big business in the world, Mr. Deputy Minister, production of frozen food. Croatia imports everything. From frozen food, they produce 10% on the domestic market. 90% frozen food imports. So are we all here together, and in the ministries, I wouldn't want to use an ugly word, not to be free and not to cause strong replicas, that we can't and can't produce frozen food, that we can't use so many, hundreds of thousands of acres of agricultural land. And we can't, when we know how to run agricultural policy and how they're actually under the firm that agriculture and processing industries are low-accumulated industries and industries, they're low-accumulated, so it says, and that's why there's no need to encourage it. There was even talk that agriculture and the processing industry didn't even enter this strategy because of that. That they don't get into this, that they should let it go, that I don't know who they should leave it to. Finally, after some interventions and memos from ours, from Slavonia, our mayors, etc., there was also the inclusion of the processing industry in this strategy, very interesting. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88451	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, the esteemed Golden shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88452	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you spoke in your discussion about a high capital price with which the economy cannot survive because it is clear that no one at a high price of capital is willing to be in debt because it threatens to fail or insecurity for his future. You also warned that HPB as the only bank that is indirectly and directly owned by the Republic of Croatia, 71% have pension funds and the Republic of Croatia, and 28% have Croatian mail that is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia, so if we add it all together, it is about 99% owned by the state. And what is important to say about this bank that we want to sell, is that it is the only bank that has not given loans in Swiss francs and has not brought citizens of the Republic of Croatia into debt slavery, and this same bank, does not stand the mantra that is constantly repeated because after all those actions that have led it to the bottom, business is getting better and most importantly has positive results and higher rankings precisely towards the economy because it serves the economy of the Republic of Croatia until these foreign banks do so. And clearly we and these banks want to give up, we want to sell it under the most unfavourable conditions and do long-term damage to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88453	On the reply line Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88454	Thank you very much, very much, very much. In fact, due to the good business of the HPB and the positive results, as well as to the monitoring of our industry when it is used for credit, it is precisely because of the good and successful financial results on the market and in the banking sector that the director or director of HPB is said to have been removed. Someone doesn't answer for the HPB to be successful, because like the others, it's supposed to be sold before. And how do companies usually sell, how did that happen? So the company is destroyed to be as low a price as possible. And then when that's the way it is, that someone buys it, and we know how it happens after that. Let's just look at some shipyards, starting with Victor Lentz and then all in order and queens, etc. I'm not going to mention these shipyards here now, so destroy everything, sell out, and here we may soon be from the H.P.B. how we're going to have to carry out the referendum again. How many strategies so many referendums and so we'll go on forever and to new elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88455	Second replica, the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88456	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic said that you have a capital outflow from Croatia, a person who deals with economic science is not acceptable to me to rely lightly on newspaper articles on some lump sums and hundreds of billions, this many billion have left Croatia, let's concentrate on what can be officially read from the RS balance of payments. Below, one item at the bottom speaks of the item of the net error and failure, which is a synonym for the invisible capital outflow. And if it has been analysed since '98 until today, then it is evident that the total invisible capital outflow amounted to 14 billion 800 million euros. But interestingly, in '98, net errors and failures were only 16 million and 200 thousand dollars, which is quite acceptable, normally, logically that it was in the context of a statistical error. But by the next year, a billion and 100 million dollars, and then it's kept at a level somewhere around a billion and a billion dollars, 2012. 450 million were reduced to reach nearly a billion dollars again in 2013, it was about an invisible capital outflow. When you talk about banks, when two private-owned banks in Croatia make up 45% of the market share, then it's the market, when 4 banks participate with 70% of market shares, then it's the market, and when the state has a bank with 2% share in the market then it's not the market it's a state monopoly. According to these criteria, Austria has no market at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88457	On the reply line Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88458	Thank you very much. I'm glad to see that you've mastered it. I'm not an economist that you've surveilled about the invisible so-called so-called. "the outflow of capital". But to trace the capital of each euro or each swear can be entered, that's not the problem. Today there are mechanisms and such laws have been passed in the EU that, in the event of suspicion or any suspected crime, corruption, bribery, any bank in Europe can be ordered to trace that capital. Any government will get into that, that's another question. Is there any desire to get into it so that there is no discovery of anything like in the Perkovic case, but that is a completely different case, to see whose private accounts they have ended up with these invisible capital outflows, it would be very interesting. But first of all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would benefit from that. About this interest is irrelevant to us than what the return of this capital would clearly help Croatia and in this sphere of re-industrialisation of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88459	The last replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88460	Dear fellow Grubisic, you mentioned a tree, an export of wood mass outside, and you didn't touch something that I don't think anyone will dare touch that part of the wood lobby story on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. If we have raw materials in our area, it's a tree. You said the logs are being exported and it's a minor problem, but in our forests and our wealth and raw materials are being managed by the company still being paid and the company's forest contribution, this company is not paying the state to its citizens in its budget or concession, and it's spinning with that wealth that you were talking about. I don't have time, but there could be a lot to elaborate on. Word here is it's like a strategic engine and the trigger will be the pharmaceutical industry. You're a doctor and we've had a chance to listen to what's going on with the Immunological Institute for the last few months. The same is said here about the production of means of transport. We have a chance to listen and see what's going on in Gredel, and we know what trams he's produced that drive here in Zagreb. What are we talking about? We are talking about the 2014 strategy by 2020, 2014 certainly, 2015 election year. This is a good set of all of them, even the criticism in it itself, made by the builder who ordered the strategy described the criticisms against them. On the mass of details you will find these things that say that those who are in charge of running that part of the economy and this part relating to this newly created because of the ministry's party calculations that they didn't know what they were doing, or that they could give them some data on what they've done in the last three years. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88461	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88462	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, when I spoke about us doctors and the consular examination of several doctors in order to establish a severe patient a diagnosis then I wanted to say, but I obviously forgot that there is no cooperation here in this government. Well, here you are, talking about wood and Croatian forests, Gorski Kotar. So, an area that has the potential for huge forest exploitation. I don't know what he'll be like anymore because he doesn't know what he's up to or what he needs or what he doesn't need anymore. So, that there is some connection, here are the Croatian forests in the Ministry of Agriculture, and the port of Rijeka and the railways are in the Ministry of Transport. So that there is some sort of agreement between them so that we try this very wealth of ours – a tree that has a Gorski kotar with this port, with the so-called shopping port as they write it, has now become a cool port so called the port of Rijeka, the coll port or the port coll, I don't know what it will say, so they like to say these Anglicans from the Government. So we could do wonders. But I think I also see that there's not enough good communication between them, there's no cooperation between the ministries. And then, of course, the projects and everything else goes down, what can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88463	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, for the first time in Croatia's history, we are discussing the proposal for an industrial strategy of the Republic of Croatia and this is for the period from 2014 to 2020. In the past, Croatia had an industry until the war, and I believe that soon we will have an industrial strategy to revitalise those remnants of industry, something that is a little niklo, but what everything can be. It is good that it is already late in the afternoon, so almost all day and we will continue this debate all policy options are actively taking part in the debate. This means that there is finally an agreement that Croatia needs industry, that it cannot live off services, from services, from jobs offered today, but which are low-paid jobs. And of that, if we could just focus on it, we'd have an employee, and a poor man, a man who would work with such a miserable salary, because these are the jobs that are offered in services today, and they can't feed themselves, and that happens regularly today, let alone their family. So, it's matured time that when we talk about industry, we don't think about socialism, because the former industry under that edigo as some relic of the past, something that Croatia's modern, modern at the end of the 20th and early 21st centuries then as thought was not necessary. So I would say two, three sentences because, these people, their memories and their pensions there earned and their desire to be something that was good, to be developed. What was bad was condemning and never going that way again. So Croatia is today a country where there are plenty of places to make money. Unfortunately, few places, many places to trade and few places to make money. Many have started, because it is best in their midst to talk, and in this regard it is least difficult for me to talk about Zadar and a once-rich industrial city, and today completely, completely deindustrated. In a city today, unfortunately living and working seasonally and where the population relies on mass tourism to survive. By the start of the war, however, only the Zadar economy and only the Zadar two companies, the former Yugoslaver, today Tanker navigation and the SAS special tool machines factory, participated in the foreign exchange due to the then Croatian economy of 25%. Shipbuilding, fishing industry, metal processing industry, chemical, textile, food and drink production was developed. All we can think of is Bagata, Maraska, Adrie, Plodinka, Zadranka dairy, tobacco factories Zadar, Viniplastika, Kemoplastics, Zadar construction company, Jadran construction company, Gortan construction company. Then the branch office of Split Dalma, Jugoplasty, Boris Kidric. However, what the war a lot of this industry suffered in the war, but what the war failed to destroy has destroyed conversion and privatisation, or translated what it means. Because the conversion or privatisation was our commitment, but mostly as we all already know, that the common wealth that has been created for decades in a very short time has been transformed into special assets of the chosen, and it goes into their private pockets without having any social engagement and social obligations not only of movement and development but of keeping production at all. But we used to talk a lot about it, this is just the time to mention ourselves, it never happened again how much industry we really need. So, the main objective of this strategy is, as the Minister has already said in the opening and said, many have repeated it, it should be repeated, the main goal is to increase exports, increase the number of employees by 30% by 2020 and the number of employees by 85 thousand. What are those branches, and there were colleagues here who said what kind of strategy it was if they didn't exactly aim at which branches they were. These are all those branches that were once developed, they failed, and we really know how, so we have people, there are knowledge that lives and through generations we still know how to do certain things in certain industries. But this is certainly where modern industries, modern technologies in which Croatia can also be preceded, given the personnel it creates, modern knowledge of modern technology. So, all in all, industrial activity is exactly the one that has the greatest ability to grow, develop and employ. Not to mention now, especially all those industrial branches that are mentioned in the strategy, all practically as far as one goes, their overall goal is exactly what I just said. So, in order for politics to create this one good environment, it really is necessary once and for everyone to have at least one stability for at least 10 years, those who are thinking of investing that business conditions could not change because they have to have their own calculation. And that's why we finally need to come to this agreement. Because there will be no economic investment, even if the climate is more favourable in Europe and beyond and globally, if the relationship of trust is violated. It's something that's crucial. But trust is acquired, we all said, very painfully, and it's getting lost very quickly. But it comes from some kind of trust, not just because of a nice word, but because of something that's visible, which is tangible. Now let's just remind ourselves that the other countries that came into crisis are, and for what? Many economists did not write. Where are those experts who didn't warn about the financial balloons at the time, the failed one who really proved to be a balloon that should just blow up a real estate business where those who warned about what was going to happen? But good. What happened in Europe, what happened around the world, we saw how, we must learn from those countries that were not only pre-developed industry and that older democracies with stronger institutions were, but that some countries have more easily resisted the crisis and have recovered faster in this globalised world and almost under the same conditions of business. What was that about? No, despite its own bureaucracy and administration, but precisely thanks to its not politicised and developed public sector. And so let's stop talking about our administration, which I think is crucial, that no law, no strategy without administration can be implemented. It means having a loyal but not obedient but loyal administration but also a professional one. Why were the countries that did so and whose administration was stable able to do so? Because they weren't politicized. But at the end of the 20th century, they were also politicised and customeristic, but they left the concept long ago and professionalized. And the countries that were in the south they had politically favoured and received what they had received, that their own strategy could not be implemented by such a administration and by the one that was inherited. One of the Greeks who had a major crisis is slowly coming out. All that time, she fired one single man from the administration. But I'm not about to let any man go, but let's make sure they have to be in the service of the citizens, in the service of the economy, and they'll thank themselves. It doesn't matter who hired who, people. We can't fire these people, but we can give them the job. And why hasn't that task been done yet, but they're being made, we've got a lot of them here, or we're going to cut it. I object to that in advance. And as other countries, one Austria could tell them to determine which tasks they have to do and then such administration is good and it can implement the strategy, and it can be authorised to apply the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88465	Thank you, colleagues. Time's up. The next debate came from the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88466	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate, I will ask a very specific question to the applicant, which is the question which is the objective of this document? Is the objective of this strategy to meet the EU's conditions in order to conclude operational programmes on the basis of this strategic document, or is this strategy aimed at re-industrating Croatia? I am deliberately talking about re-industrialisation because Croatia was a rather well-developed country to independence. In order to sustain Croatia's economic development. It is my impression, unfortunately, that the objective of this strategy is not to re-indust Croatia's re-industrialisation and sustainable economic development, but to meet EU requirements. This strategy, although providing an extremely large amount of data, does not give what every strategic document should be, and this is a clear focus and determination in which direction the industrial development of Croatia needs to be directed, with concrete measures in which concrete deadlines and with which specific quantifiable objectives are set. Because of what I said before, I will not support the adoption of this strategy. But if this document is not everyone's understandable direction and determination in which direction Croatia should develop industrially over the next 5 years, then. In a positive context this document is an extremely good source of data, analysis, tables and numbers, but it is mostly accountingly processed matter. It is not clear to us in ORAH why this booklet does not provide concrete information about the state of the Croatian industry before independence when Croatia was, as I have already mentioned, a rather industrially developed country. In order to lay sound foundations of the industrial strategy, it should be borne in mind that until the war was an industrial country and that in the past 20 years, the Croatian industry has been systematically and thoughtfully destroyed in the interest of... individuals and groups and import lobbys. By denying such an important fact that its roots are incompetent and irresponsible political elites, mainly under HDZ governments, we cannot make a fully accurate diagnosis of the present sad situation. Sad numbers are just a manifestation of that phenomenon. We saw what happened to Greece, and we in Croatia as if we were going to have the same scenario, to be a state of service and trade, without production and industry, and by importing even such products as food that is constantly in debt and consumes its substance without real desire to save first from the industry what is being saved to preserve still existing production jobs and to work parallelly on creating conditions for starting new production projects. But this will not happen in itself, by identifying the accounting situation of today's industry, only if there is a real political will for Croatia to really become a production state, to become an industrial state. For this we do not need to dream of 10 mega-industrial projects that will raise investments in one election cycle, and that is why we need to turn the GDP around, go into a quality reform of public administration and justice in order for these services to become efficient bodies serving citizens in a fair, transparent and equal manner. There's hardly a word about it in this industrial strategy. The Croatian industry, and thus the economy will become healthy and sustainable only if we restructure the state, administration and the judiciary so that the state encourages the realisation of a large number of small and medium-sized projects, not just large so-called. strategic projects. The state should also decide exactly what kind of industry we want to encourage because we cannot encourage everything. No country is rich enough for that. In the ORAH, we believe that we must go towards self-sustainability, that our priorities should be total energy, including transport, food production and the water sector and the accompanying industries from these sectors. Why? Because no country is self-sustainable unless it meets the water, food and energy needs of its population, but because of the fact that we import 50% of food and 50% of energy and in these sectors there is a huge potential for economic recovery and GDP growth. When we talk about industrial strategy, we need to talk about support. In 2012, a total of 8.8 billion kunas were allocated in Croatia to support businesses in agriculture, industry and services, which is less than €231.8 million in 2011 although support has been reduced nominally, their share of GDP has remained almost unchanged on average around 2.7% of GDP since the start of the crisis in 2008. To compare the share of support in the EU 27, it is almost 5 times smaller and the average is 0.5%. This suggests that there was no significant change in state aid policy in Croatia between 2008 and 2012, and that there was no shift in corporate restructuring. Croatia is therefore awaiting a significant reduction in support and rerouting them from losers to new competitive and perspective entrepreneurs. The need for a key twist specifically indicates an unchanged support structure for industry and services where a negative trend in the far greater allocation of sectoral support continues. They relate to almost 70% of support to industry and services, and only about 30% refer to horizontal support. EU 27 invests 3 times more in horizontal objectives, i.e. about 90% support to industry and services. The EU believes that exactly horizontal support should be the bearers of smart and sustainable economic growth, as it targets such as regional development, research, innovation development, environmental protection and the like. These should be based on modern industrial policy because they are intended for all entrepreneurs, not just selected enterprises or sectors. In the Croatian case, it is primarily the case with losers or industries in the sunset. Horizontal support therefore serves to correct those situations where the market fails and thus contributes to economic development and strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. Supports were awarded to 72%, 10.2%, 8.6% and 6.9% favourable loans in Croatia, or 2.3% share in equity. The biggest beneficiary of the aid was definitely agriculture and fisheries in which the state invested 3.5 billion kuna in 2012 or around 40% of the total aid. It is clear that the biggest beneficiaries of the aid are precisely those companies that should have helped the countries get them out of trouble. This rescue policy was unfortunately not particularly successful because the same companies continue to have difficulty coming out of difficulties, and if these companies are being observed sectorally, it can be concluded that the most investments are still being made on the market, in HRT, in shipbuilding, rehabilitation and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulties such as the immune institution,..., Croatian banks and loans that... were granted to firms in difficulty and tourism. Croatia should therefore stop saving market losers and taxpayers' money to create conditions for the development of new industries and competitive entrepreneurs that will boost growth and employment. The European Commission's impact will certainly go in this direction because all Member States must comply with the policies adopted at Community level. Powers in the field of State aid announced by the Competition Protection Agency after 01 July 2013 are mostly transferred to the European Commission. Croatia has maintained the possibility of granting support and implementing industrial policy within its financial capabilities, but fully in line with EU rules, and the European Commission has taken over the control function. This means that prior to their application support should be notified to the Commission in order to obtain approval. After entering the EU, an examination of whether any Croatian support has been granted in accordance with European rules may be requested by the European Commission by all other economic operators within the EU who feel threatened by such a decision. Although final data should wait, i.e. estimates from the Competition Protection Agency for 2013 unfortunately indicate that the share of GDP support will increase to 2.98%, 12% more than in 2012. At the same time, sectoral support is on the rise and horizontal in the fall, which will further distance us from the average support structure in the EU 27. This is why it is expected to see additional pressure from the European Commission, and the EU's latest note will expect this document to be implemented from Croatia. It is my impression that it is a pre-lost battle because of the very structure of this, in fact, by no key strategic document.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88467	Thank you. We have reported a single replica of the esteemed Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88468	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, of course, whether you support it or not, it's your real one. However, I consider myself invited to say that in your saying that this strategy absolutely does not define any key industrial activities, no measure in particular in terms of the measurement of this strategy and the realization. I believe that you are absolutely wrong because key industrial activities are definitely analysed, definitely and clearly told what these activities are, they are still successful today and measures are ensuring them, but also those who are potential industrial activities to be strategic. In any case, something that is measurable, there are certain simulations, there are measures that need to be done clearly to make it all happen together. The EU's strategic guidelines for industrial policy are also implemented here, guidelines 20-20-20, and on ecology, and on energy, so it's all an integral part of this strategy, and it's all an integral part of this strategy in order to show as high as possible what our strategy is, what would open space and new investments both foreign and domestic. So to discuss that there is no analysis since the 1990s I didn't exactly expect from you 5 years and 8 years ago because let's be honest then industry is still based on quite another basis, not market. Of course, that debate that was why the industry is gone is something else. But today's time is looking for this strategy, the implementation of the European strategy, and that is why this strategy is extremely good because it has taken all this into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88469	The replica matches Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88470	A respected colleague, none, but indeed no reform or policy will be successful unless we do the basic instrument for the implementation of any policy, which is public sector reform, i.e. public administration and justice. If we do not do so, if we do not have efficient services that will serve citizens in a completely equal and transparent, fair and fair way we can have the best possible strategies, the best possible policies, the best possible proposals for reform will be nothing and will remain a dead letter on paper because they will not have anyone to implement them. Unfortunately, in this document on this key measure, which is the main ingredient of any reform, there is hardly a word. And if you talk to entrepreneurs what I assume you do all the time, you will see that their main objection is precisely in the ineffectiveness, unfairness and corruption of the public administration body, including the judiciary in Croatia. And for that reason, I believe that industrial policy must also have that element incorporated in its document. When you talk about it being precisely defined, I'd say you didn't realize that I said that we have to decide what state we want to be in the end. Because we're not going to be successful if we're going to develop a bunch of different industries parallelly. We have to say, our priorities are in it, and that's what we're going to encourage, if we don't do it, we won't even be successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88471	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues here are discussing several strategies that we had the opportunity to discuss in this high home, including this strategy of entrepreneurship development, and the strategy of education, science and technology cannot be taken away from the impression that even before the adoption of the strategy itself, therefore some colleagues and colleagues here condemn themselves to failure. So it comes to the world as a stillborn. I was already in the debate on the education strategy talking about what the strategy is. So some say that the strategy is too extensive, some say it's too big again, some say that the strategy is a list of beautiful desires. However, the strategy is what we seek and where we should direct our development projects. I can agree with my colleague Holly when she talked about it, so as far as the incentives are concerned, the incentive system has so far proved extremely ineffective and that is part of the reason why the industry is in this state of mind as it is today. I can also agree with some of its findings that we need to further focus our efforts, so specifically on several branches, which I believe this strategy is working to be competitive on the European and then on the world market. However, I cannot accept the structures that I say the strategy condemn before we bring it in. We'll have a chance to monitor her conduct. I'd like to hear more debates in that direction when we see how we're just conducting any strategy, so these go too. So, as far as the situation in the industry is concerned, there's already been a lot said. All speakers had recently looked back on this with a special emphasis on the geographical area from where they came from. I could talk about how many factories there were, how many industries there were in Slavonia in Osijek where I came from, but I won't hold on to it. What worries me more is the future of the industry that we have left and the future of our development projects regarding industry. So we can agree that the current situation in industry is not satisfactory. Why is that? A lot's been said. I must say, for the truth, that I am sure that a part of the industry that existed during the collapse of the former state would not survive on the market later, so simply some market mechanisms would destroy these production plants because of this or because of that, because of the incompetence of outdated technology, because certain products are no longer produced in Europe at all or cannot be competitive with their own price. I think it's important to say how much I followed, no one has mentioned any parts of the industry so far and some factories could not survive, it would be simply natural to die and close them, but some could survive. Both colleagues and colleagues talked about privatising inefficient incentives to waste money on one side, so the continued rescue of industrial branches that we knew would be uncompetitive and would not be able to cope with market opportunities and would not be particularly maintained. However, there are bright examples, something I have spoken about and this strategy as I have said specifically underlines computer programming and related activities as one of the strategic specifics, and I think there is exactly the key for a number of reasons. First of all, as far as the impute or the entry costs are concerned, they are relatively small if you compare them with other industrial production. The biggest resort... is here knowledge, we can offer it, it's more colleagues and colleagues here pointed out that they showed by the rest and our young people who are waving in this part of the self-taught. So 90% I would dare say that my free judgment is in that self-taught for a number of reasons, and one of those that our education system doesn't adapt quickly enough. But I'd like to discuss it a little later. So one of the bright examples I would first of all experience Osijek software city so Osijek city software that has recognized local self-government and is trying just like this, so it's a clean production of software though, to facilitate and make it easier and more efficient to perform on the European and world market because this industry does not know the boundaries, so it's all much easier here than when you have a physical product. A few words about the proposed strategy, so I was saying what a strategy is, I would focus on the fact that for the first time in Croatian history we are even considering an industrial strategy and that is already a step forward for me. We've heard a lot of suggestions here, some of them being constructive, some of me not, but the fact that we're discussing this is a step forward. So the strategy itself defines several branches that should become Croatian strategic branches, I would no longer hold back on this, except again to underline exactly computer programming in this I see the possibility of achieving relatively limited resources in a limited time of good results. There is a particularly important inter-resorship connection about it there has been a lot of words. And we've been bringing in two other strategies in this House, so the strategy for entrepreneurship development and the strategy for education, science and technology, and that's where the parallels should be pulled. Speaking about the education strategy here I think that we have made great leaps, first of all there is a Croatian qualification framework which is no longer mentioned so much but which, in my opinion, is therefore significant in these interests where those who participate in production processes are mostly self-taught or have acquired skills in an informal way not through formal education that will be able to do so through the Croatian qualification framework and value and that will help to find employment easier. Although I must commend this sector, the sector of computer programming as one of the most progressive I would dare say so in Croatia where employers exclusively question what you can do, not what you are by profession. So they're mostly not interested in formal education. So other than the Croatian Qualifications Framework there are also a network of secondary schools because I want to stress if we talk about computer programming that in Croatia at least as far as I know, so if we talk about Slavonia then I can be concrete there are no programs that would train young people to computer programming at high school level. So you have electrotechnics, you have different variants of computer engineering but you don't have a particular IT sector that is a huge increase and for which there is a great demand for labour. We are now bringing an industrial strategy, so I see it above all as one of the strategic documents that should contribute to the overall strategic thinking and economic and any other development of Croatia, of course, is the economic priority. Now it would be expected that the next big step and the next step that we need to bring is both strategy and economic development, so these all strategies when they are combined would result in one such comprehensive document. Of course nothing is written in stone, this strategy as well as any other will change, given how their implementation takes place, how the measures are shown more or less successful, etc. And for this reason, I will follow with interest the development and implementation of the strategy, and it would be good, perhaps, and already, to conclude after which deadline the Assembly would reconsider the implementation of the strategy and the measures to be taken, or what we need to change in the strategy. As a conclusion, one colleague, I think my colleague Baranovic said it was no shame. It's not a bauk to have a bauk's strategy not to implement it, I'd still say it's a bogey or a shame not to have a strategy at all. It took us 20 years to even start thinking in this direction, not only when we talk about industry but also in other branches, and I think that this strategy, not this strategy, but everyone else that we have brought and which we are about to bring, needs to be a resource and a foundation on which we will continue to build both economic and any other improvement in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88473	Thank you. We have a line of honor, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88474	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic, you said there was support in your strategy, but you said support doesn't matter. Well, of course, support is not important to you when in the government budget of the Republic of Croatia in the last year the support that was for the wood industry of €58 million has not been paid. They won't even be paid this year. You say I won't talk about industry. So what are you going to talk about then if you're not going to talk about the industry that is exactly an integral part of this strategy and without which, in fact, this strategy cannot be realised. When we add up the agriculture that has lost over the past three years since you've been on the government what through incentives, which through rebalancing and the total economy as much as it has lost, I don't know what strategy we need to write, and in such a time period, we go back to those positions that we were in three or five years ago. What kind of economic growth and GDP growth you've plotted 2.8% and what you have to do to make it happen. The strategy doesn't talk about it. It's about wishes, and wishes are one thing and possibilities are another. Therefore, my dear friend, since you are coming from Slavonia alone, you must pledge precisely that what is important for Slavonia is realised in this strategy, and that is to be the drivers of industry, above all in agriculture, in the wood industry, and don't say that you won't talk about it. Realising this strategy you can't do without moving the economy either one agriculturally, in any other form. Therefore, as a Slavonac, advocate development and that the strategy be implemented and not just written.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88475	Thank you. Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, I'm under the impression that I've been discussing a strategy. If I've skipped some parts, it's so I don't repeat myself and save both your time and yours. I don't like it when we talk about qualifications your strategy. Well, this isn't ours or mine. This isn't my strategy. This isn't a strategy. This should be a strategy for all of us as well as the Education Strategy, the education strategy in which we have respected, i.e. in which the proposaler has respected all the remarks that have been made, and yet it has not been good enough. Of course I stand for development, of course I stand for Slavonia. Well, the minister himself is a Slavonian, and so is my fellow citizen, Ossetian, so I believe there's no slow or dilemma about whether it's good or not. I didn't say support wasn't important, I said the support wasn't effective until now. The strategy introduces order, order which should be encouraged and how. And that's what I would especially point out. Therefore, we need to monitor the result of the incentive whether we have achieved something by encouraging some activity or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88477	We're continuing an individual debate. It's the honorary representative Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd be happier if there were more of us in the assembly and there was a minister present here for the simple reason why I should consider this document to be discussed in a slightly different way. First of all, away from politics and politics, I think we should all, so at least if we don't agree on what happened to the Croatian industry in the past 24 years and objective and unobstructive and such and such circumstances. And then, with all these tables that have been done correctly, copied from some other institutions, we try to get to the point in principle, if we're going to realistically look at what we've done wrong in the past, then that's the only way we can come up with a proposal that needs to be done in the future. However, today all our debate unfortunately did not go in this direction, and on the basis of this, we here in the Parliament did not give a real basis for whether or not we agree with what was proposed to be the industrial strategy of the Republic of Croatia, in principle on what it should be based on. Is it a traditional economy that has adorned the Croatian industry? We can't get away from it, that certain economic branches, actually industrial branches were tied to a particular area and nowhere else they were. They were working intensively somewhere, they were like this, they were like that somewhere. And over the past 20 years and a few more things have happened that unfortunately this industry is gone. Once the most powerful and powerful craftsmen in all municipalities in the Republic of Croatia were from manufacturing activity. However, they all leaned on large economic operators. This happened later with private companies. Many of these major economic operators have disappeared. And unfortunately, these strong craftsmen, strong businesses, are also gone, that's a fact we can't escape from. Now the question is whether this strategy has worked out enough instruments to try to revive at least one part of these big ones in a newer way, in a newer way, so that some new craftsmen, some new small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, can rely on them, because without the big ones, there are no small ones. It's just a fact. This is the basic economic theory of the so-called so-called economic theory. Birch's theory, that triangle that's been going on since before that big economic crisis in the '30s, and it's always today. So, without each other, I just can't. Whether we're making the law, I mean me, because I have no intention of looking back at this or that time. Because just for four years it doesn't take an industrial period but it goes on in continuity tried to do it. In this strategy, we have primarily defined the ownership of those who will tomorrow be the bearers of this industrial development. Did we say that we would open up space to private capital and not look at that private capital as some kind of thieves and criminals who got so much and so much, but people who came in, entered an adventure, invested money in some kind of production cycle and opened jobs? Honestly, as far as I'm concerned, let him open 100 jobs, let him earn 100 million, bless him for opening 100 jobs. But if we declare such a person or such a person, then simply no one will come to create jobs. And why am I telling you this? Well, in order for all that to be done together, we need to have some kind of capital. There are documents in this country that all Croatian companies are unfortunately under-required, creditworthy and unable to be in charge. So they can't be carriers of some kind of re-industrialisation and job creation. They can't be, they need to be opened up. Shall we talk about the energy sector? We have first completely liberalised research into natural resources in the Republic of Croatia, first of all I mean gas and oil, and then we talk about how we should save an oil company that is half owned by a Croatian state half owned by someone else. And we can set a series of examples like that. When we talk about the source of funds, the situation in the banking sector is what it is. However, as everyone today talked about how bad it was here and then, no one said that Croatia was one of the few countries that had not had any fallen banking or non-banking institutions in this crisis. That's a fact. And in order for that to happen, someone had to do something, some things had to be done. So we kept that banking and non-banking sector stable. Now this banking and non-banking sector should in a certain way plant its spine under the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Do we, with our laws and our conduct, force them to do so? No, I don't. We're talking about the capital market. Do you know when the capital market practically died in Croatia? The moment the last shares of T-HT and INA were sold on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. All this trading on the Zagreb Stock Exchange is so-called It's petty, it's negligible. About us talking about pension funds investing here or there is totally wrong policy. Because pension funds will invest where their founders will, in fact, invest with their owners, and these are all employees of the Republic of Croatia who are paying for the second pillar of pension they have given to manage their funds and they have to invest where they will earn the most, not where someone will tell them from the Government or where someone here from the Parliament thought they should invest here or there. And did they create a prerequisite for these pension funds to be tomorrow's investors in the Republic of Croatia? Both colleagues and colleagues also when we talk about industrial policy, we must not forget the strategy of industry then, given the structure of what is little left in industrial production about the price of energy. And I'll touch Petrochemy. Petrochemistry can only work with cheaper gas, only in such a way. How do you make it possible, do you find a strategic investor who will be in the interest? I won't talk about it because whatever I say could be someone's saying he's behind this or what. But we all agree that without cheaper gas, it can't work. Do we have any other economic branches that are operating at this point? This unfortunate wood industry, so for God's sake, is it in our interest that it exists or does not exist? There's raw materials in state hands. Is it in the state's interest that several thousand people work in the wood industry and a few tens of thousands of people then the state can react in one way or another. Agriculture, we can admire our tourism as much as we want, but until the tables have eaten what was produced in the Croatian field until then we have missed politics. And we can sell our minds as much as we want to to each other. I was saying that, and while I was a minister and I'm going to say today, I can't agree that the state encourages some catering company or hotel and then buys cheap ones, it doesn't matter whose beaks, and at the same time we have a great factory in Karlovac that unfortunately fails, which works five times the quality of these products. Well, wouldn't it make more sense to let him know the story now, one way or another, if you're getting state support, then it's your turn to buy something. In the end, many European countries have gotten out of the crisis. And this is what I'm gonna end up with. It's not even a problem to produce, the problem is who you're gonna sell it to. The Croatian industry has lost market and it is the key to everything. We can agree here now whatever we want, tell the Minister, the Deputy Minister, and someone will produce it. It's just a question of who they're selling it to. And that's the key to everything. So, uh... As important as it is and who will produce and provide the funds, this relationship to the market is so important in the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm going to end up in principle with what I started, the Croatian industry has failed because it lost the market. It's gone. ... markets, the markets of the eastern countries have disappeared and unfortunately the largest part of the Croatian industry has failed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They couldn't find each other anywhere else. Therefore, this strategy until it defines the market, while there is no clear communication between producers and markets unfortunately cannot be some kind of development framework. And as you can see, there are several segments that are unfortunately not processed and worked out enough. Because if someone gets the money at 1%, no one from Croatia can compete with them with 4, 5 or 7% of the interest rate on capital. That's just impossible. And then when you add that someone tells us that we have high wages, I am still a supporter of making a strategy for Croatia to be a country of smart and capable, not of those who will work cheaply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88479	We're moving on to replicas. First, Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88480	Thank you very much. Well, I fully agree with your debate, and today I've spoken about it several times. In order to work on a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy, we must be clear and loud first of all in the strategy. This strategy that we also want within the Croatian Democratic Community and it is not only written for people sitting here in front of the SDP or the coalition government. We want to take part in this strategy right now and we're just saying what's important. One strategy in agriculture that is not talked about here in the strategy, let's say how we're going to get out of these difficulties, and how we're going to restore the livestock fund, and how we're going to increase agricultural production. And that's why, exactly what you said, colleague Shucker, we also believe in HDZ that simply such an unscheduled strategy is not the future of development or agriculture or in general when we talk about the economy. I was just talking about incentives, my people if we don't encourage certain branches right where we feel the possibility of rapid development, whether it's agriculture, whether it's the wood industry, whether it's any other branch, if we don't have feelings, if we don't see it, I'm just afraid that this strategy is just going to be a dead letter on paper, that it's going to stay as well as we've brought development strategies at county levels. They have never been properly written, expensively paid and ultimately the Croatian people have nothing of such strategies. And that is why I am afraid that this strategy does not experience such a fate because, as I have said, the mass of tables that I have prescribed from various magazines and at the same time the specific thing that is important to the Croatian people is not said. Desire is one thing and possibilities are another. Deputy Minister
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88481	Time. The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88482	Deputy Minister 2.8% of the employment GDP of growth, how you will achieve it and how you will achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88483	Because you hear when I warn you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88484	I can hear you, so I can hear you. You let the others, so you can let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88485	Then stop talking. The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88486	A little less nervous, we'll all have a better time at the end of the debate, at least the ones that stayed. A fellow Lucic, a strategy within which many things are defined. We cannot ignore that there was no place for wood industry and agriculture in this strategy. It means that someone practically whistled out all of Slavonia, who amputated Slavonia from Croatia. Because how to talk about industry, about industrial production, not about agriculture and the wood industry. Because agriculture isn't just about plowing and barning. These farmers use a lot of industrial products they use, they produce new goods that will be placed elsewhere again, and it is a chain that binds thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of people. It is also a tragedy for the wood industry to export planks and balvanas from Croatia out. I'm sorry and it's that we understand the mistake, and while we were, it's not just like that, that the massive furniture from the oak tree is not becoming a recognizable Croatian product. And there would be places in Ikea today and for those cheap furniture dishes, and there would also be room for this expensive furniture. But let's not say there's no support, it's lies, there's support for even regional development and structural and horizontal and whoever's smart knows how to direct them to help their economy, as well as to help their agriculture. Why the European Community has removed agricultural support practically beyond all regulations and is particularly regulatory. Well, because he who has food, who has enough food, has the greatest strategic wealth in his hands. We unfortunately haven't figured that out in Croatia yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88487	Thank you. There is no nervousness of fellow Shuker, but there are rules that apply to everything equally so that is understood by counterpart Franjo Lucic. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88488	Thank you very much, Vice President. I still think you're a little nervous. Comrade Shuker, today, he's been trying to convince us all day that it's a strategy, that the value of this strategy is that we have it. So we didn't have it and the general value is that we have it and even here we can and agree on it we have a strategy, and we're trying to warn about what's missing in it that might be better. Now we've heard from the left-hand side that it's possible. to announce changes and complement strategies that have never been in this House before, but possibly become part of this House's obligations. And when we talk about strategies, thank God we have to say that we have experience about these few years, only on this agenda are three, we discussed two of these is now the third. So we caught that certain rhythm, but we keep warning about a certain level of methodology because each one is written in a different way. And when we get to her adoption, she's already had a problem with the implementation. So let me remind you of that strategy we adopted last year, the Tourism Development Strategy. She was even quantifiable, there were targets set. 2020. 14 billion euros in tourism earnings, so we will build so many accommodation facilities, accommodation units, etc. So there were even privatisations, say three or several companies. And now, according to the second State Property Management Strategy, a tender has been opened and all the tenders have fallen. Now we're going to do it again, and so is the story with that famous tax. Remember that move from 25 to 10 for catering services, so raising to 13 and catering excellent. The state is struggling with tax returns, they're okay with it, and the state has a parallel debt of 6% of the interest to make up for some billions that suddenly went missing in our budget. And it has nothing to do with a strategy that wrote something else entirely in that part. Since I'm out of time, I'm gonna unplug myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88489	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boris, you've actually given a great explanation or some sort of simulation now, which means a few months of strategy to bring, and then these strategies don't stick to it within a few months because the tourism strategy was passed practically a month or two before it was said that the key thing in the tourism strategy would be said to be primary, that without it practically there was no progress of tourism and then someone after that changed the law that simply had nothing to do with what was written in the strategy. That is why it should be said that the strategy, not only the framework, but also the obligation of those who are inside, is that all the legal regulations they bring, be in some kind of spirit and direction that are defined by the strategy because if this is not done in such a way, then the strategy becomes unfortunately what happens most often and happens, the alibi, that we can say it. However, this document should come up with a number of legislative proposals from which those who intend to invest first and foremost in the industry in the Republic of Croatia would say this government is serious. Because if that doesn't happen, then those who have money, who have an idea, who have a desire and who have the courage to engage in that adventure, simply won't invest money. Because all of these legal changes in taxes, unfortunately, have created one major legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia. Because all investors view Croatia as a legally insecure country. Even if this case in court, if you want to charge for something that is apparent that someone owes you, but has some connections and ties, lasts for a dozen or more years, then it will certainly not occur to you to invest in Croatia no matter how much you love it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88491	The opportunity to present its debate is now being given to a respected colleague, Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here we heard today on both sides, we can actually feel nostalgia for the industry that has failed, but we have to remember that unfortunately it has led to such a policy of destroying industry that we are naturally witnessing. I must say that I support, of course, the adoption of a strategy, precisely because it still provides guidelines for work, i.e. the strategy also defines policy towards our natural resources. And, of course, with all these shortcomings that have been made because there are good... shortcomings, I hope we start thinking in that direction. The state, of course, is responsible for its strategic, economic orientations, and that is why I say that I support because this strategy was also to be based on all other strategies that have actually been adopted. I'm going to say something today about an activity that according to the criteria of the opening speech that I realized was not entering the triggers, but it was identified as a strategic activity, which is the wood processing industry. However, first of all, relations with the Croatian forests should actually be resolved in order to actually develop this wood processing industry because when you look at it should actually be mentioned, when you ask manufacturers, then those basic problems show contracts with the Croatian forests. These contracts should be long-term, not just for one year, because for the normal development of such companies, companies and planning of further activities through investments, etc., these multi-annual contracts should be made. So, wood industry, why am I talking to her? It is precisely because I think that one of the main strategic directions for the development of the Croatian economy is given the tradition that is mentioned today and the quality raw material that we have. And when we look at the data in the first six months of this year, it was even increased, it was bigger than last year. I'd like to look back here, today nobody mentioned it, about the importance of a product of design in that wooden industry, and I'm going to look back at a group of very valuable young knowers who could actually improve the market by their work, input their creativity, their knowledge, because when you look at these are young people who are the winners of various design awards. So, a design study, it's a Croatian higher education institution that schools fit in the area of industrial, or design product. Unlike developed Western countries, the importance is, in fact, the importance of a product of design has been recognized for decades, unfortunately in Croatia it is only in turns. In Croatia, therefore, and in the 21st century, designers are often seen as decorators, so we must show exactly what the effect of design is on a wider segment of the economy. The designer must be socially engaged and responsible. A design can exist in a country if it is founded, of course, on production. When it comes to competitiveness, research has proven the relationship between the overall competitiveness of the country and the effective use of design, so we have 25 of the world's most positioned economies, and is also the most ranked in the implementation of design in the economy, in industrial production. When you look at Finland, she's after II. World War I was a very poor country, and then she actually decided to turn to knowledge and education. The design was just part of that new wave and became a national pride. So we have possible production, potential production. Manufacturers turned to manufacturing furniture or certain parts of furniture for foreign companies. However, such producers are in an unfavourable business relationship because this foreign brand, it can find cheaper labour and thus create uncertainty on the market. I would say one more thing, when we are talking about design, and my whole debate is really focused on it very often in schools when the acquisitions dictate economic rather than ergonomic demand when you look at the furniture itself, so I can conclude that our design is not used in Croatia. And why is that? Here's when you look at the chronology of 2005 at all, it's been a question since 2005 in whose authority it was, so it belonged to the Ministry of Culture, so it belonged to the Ministry of Agriculture, and now let's say, the Ministry of Economy Deputy. I don't think you've ever used a word of design in any of your documents yet, but without design in industrial production you can't. In the future, I hope that it will be recognised when we talk about the wood industry that we will recognize this value, that the processing and processing of wood in Croatia will enable long-term contracts and that our experts will not be allowed to go outside, and at home we have raw materials and all those potentials that allow development. Here I am only one segment caught, which is exactly the woodworking industry or design in the woodworking industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88493	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First, it will be replicated by the esteemed Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88494	Thank you very much. My colleagues, since you have reached the wood industry, I have already talked about it today, I would just like to correct you that our processors who deal with the final production of furniture have long-term ten-year contracts, and these others have shorter contracts, so this is the problem of the Croatian Forests. What I resent and that all wood growers are offended that the wood industry was not originally foreseen in the very drivers of economic development, but it was on the only misery, here before the adoption of the strategy was included. And you know why? Because strategy makers took as I said several times today, some analytical data from various companies and took back five years of the average export of woodworking industry. The years that have been most difficult in the history of the Republic of Croatia in terms of exports because the wood industry as well as the rest of the economy has been affected by the world's biggest and economic crisis, while they haven't talked to anyone else, I resent it. They couldn't get an average back five years when we know the whole world was in recession and in big trouble. But I said already today, the wood industry in five months is exporting $580 million, so in 2014, it's going to be a billion and $200 million, which is the biggest export recorded back 15 or I don't know how many years in the wood industry. And that's why we had to give her priority, and the wood industry will hire the people most, we just have to give her the minimum support we predicted, and we didn't give them that either. See, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88495	The reply to the replica respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88496	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague agrees with you, and I think it's clear today to the deputy minister when we talked about woodworking and the food industry that it's an important industry that will bring all those goals that are set out in this strategy, regardless of which it is not set by the criteria in the drivers of the industry. I hope since it has been identified as a strategically important activity that will nevertheless be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88497	Second replica, the esteemed Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad to talk to you about this part that you encouraged the wood industry, and here I have to get involved, but I think I'm the only parliamentary agent in this congregation that I'm an engineer of wood industry and forestry so I know what it's all about. And I can say a few things, though, that this strategy that is still defined we finally have, so at least we can criticise it, we can at least change it and everything is subject to change. As far as the wood industry is concerned, it is indeed strategically important for the development of Croatia and it is well explained in this strategy. This strategy and development is based on the Syrian base Croatia has and is based on the tradition we have. And yet the only thing that must be based on, I don't agree with you that there's only important design, no, we need to be the competitiveness of our wood industry that needs to be based on research, on development, which can be contributed by technology centres that will teach the wood industry about new design, on new technology, on new marketing, on certification of wood industry, atesting and other things that must be done to encourage this wood industry to develop and export. And what I would particularly mention is driven by previous debates, which would be that instead of paying nearly 8 billion and more incentive funds in shipbuilding that my God has invested at least one major part of the wood industry because that's the strategic definition that we couldn't do before... the strategy, and now we're going to do it. And that's why today there's exports to the wood industry because we've stimulated it with these levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88499	The reply to the replica respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88500	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm glad you brought up analysis, empathy, because, of course, it's the best thing to do and most credible if any strategy is based on some kind of empirical research, and I'm glad you mentioned it. I hope that then and these 350 designers, I'm going back to them because they're your colleagues who can cooperate with you and work on improving exactly that woodworking industry of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88501	Third and last replica, the respected Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you said there's been a lot of collapse in the industry as well as shipbuilding and everything. I mean, I come from an area where there are three shipyards. I don't think they've had so much support from the state, and these crises, the global European crises have remained and there are now about 700 workers working inside. They've been privatized long ago, they're going with their work, and I think the strategy will take care of this, and it's good that this strategy came from something that we didn't have anything. Because we haven't had anything in 24 years, and now we're the bogeyman, we're starting to bring strategy. Yes, the strategy has been passed. This government has adopted a strategy. Similarly, they will continue to work on strategies in the future. Who will bring it, how and in what way? I mean, we've got our shipbuilding schools secured, so we've got guys, middle schoolers, on the islands of that, for schooling, too. The global shipbuilding crisis, the crisis that relies on our own areas. It's a good story about the wood industry. It's hard to see when we're taking the logs out, but it's still a big problem when we're left with individuals and we owe it to that forest, forest, forest, forest, we don't even pay for it. Because I think we're importing a finished product later, and unfortunately, we're not benefiting from that. Also, about agriculture, I think we've given support to agriculture and a lot of them have been abused and supported, and I think it's a good thing that we have a strategy on that branch that will come out and that these support goes into the hands of those who deserve it, not as it has been for the past 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88503	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you and your colleague, Marelic, have, somewhere, expressed that feeling of nostalgia that I mentioned earlier in my presentation. And all these 25 years you've actually listed some things that actually the industry has failed, it's shut down. And I agree with you that the strategy is necessary, because I'm going to repeat the strategy is still bringing structure, in fact, showing us some way where it's going. And, of course, with all the shortcomings that have been said here today, and we have to accept them that I support such a strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88505	The last debate of 10 minutes and the esteemed Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here today we discussed almost all day this interesting proposal of the Industrial Strategy 2014-2020. With respect to all other colleagues, I allow myself to, in particular, enjoy the debate of my fellow Shucker who has been very realistically, very rationally found and the situation as it has been so far and the reasons that have come to the collapse of industrial production and the need for why we bring this document. This document is of paramount importance to the Republic of Croatia, as it provides certain frameworks and recognises certain advantages of individual industries. This proposal of the Industrial Strategy, I would say, is living matter and if it only remains on this proposal of the Industrial Strategy, if it is not part of it and if there is no synergy with other strategies, then this strategy has little importance and benefits. This creation of this Industrial Strategy has been a very demanding job, complex preparations are made for this strategy, which has reflected countless accurate information which in this document, which contains over 3 hundred pages of each of us MPs, gives a certain basis that we can better understand this document of great importance. The main objective of the Industrial Strategy is to create conditions for the work of this economy. Unfortunately, none of the colleagues who have criticised this strategy have said the reasons why there will be no growth. I believe that this document is very much needed by the Republic of Croatia, which is very much needed for leaders and our economy, and the strategy also reflects that the Republic of Croatia and the EU has been a member since 2013. This document is also important for the future of the Republic of Croatia, because if we look at this year as well, we have an industrial growth of 2%, we have exceptional information that beyond all expectations, that exports to EU countries are more than 20% which says that we also have a competitive industry, that we have a quality industry and that we have a quality product. What is important is that this strategic document of the Industrial Strategy reflects the human potential, knowledge and expertise and that it fully wants to be transformed into a strategy, that it speaks of 86500 new employees by 2016, but provided that 30% are highly educated. Because an educated man gives both quality and good product. The objective of this strategy is to increase productivity, employment and competitiveness. Perhaps from today's perspective this percentage of 2.85 is perhaps large, and I think it could have been in this plan and much more ambitious and more employees. What is important is that this strategy also indicates exactly how to use them. The strategy, the industrial strategy is a long-term document and it will certainly contribute to individual production, some industries do not collapse. What is particularly interesting and particularly important is that this strategic document is particularly verifiable by new technologies and which are the basis and new industries based on complete export products. So here, when this strategy is adopted, it's exactly verified and recognized by the high-tech industry, it's exactly what the mediums are, and I think this document that we have is quality and well-developed and quality-represented. What I would particularly point out is that this strategic document must be helpful to investors from production to market. This, when I speak to the market here, we must certainly take advantage of both part of economic diplomacy and part of the resources or potentials that our embassies have outside the Republic, in fact in a world outside the EU, and that this should certainly be a significant synergy. I would also point out one very important thing that some colleagues have touched in their debate. Croatian industry and Croatian craftsmanship without large systems are difficult to survive. And that is why the strongest and most vital parts of Croatian agriculture were tied to both Podravka and Vindi. Be assured that we did not have such recognizable products and quality products in those companies, as well as other companies, be sure that they would not be so successful. What is also highlighted in this strategy is that the strategy reflects research and development. Here I think that over the past 20 years, we may have neglected this segment, and it is in close connection with both quality and design and competitiveness. That is why it is good that this Industrial Strategy highlights research and development, and this always comes with quality personnel and quality products. On the subject of large systems here I will say at the level of the world in our environment is one Fiat, I don't know in Japan one Mitsubishi that has 2786 cooperatives and they all give synergy and quality to that product. I would point out here that the strategy may have more clearly defined public goods, natural potentials, their uses and uses and these potentials, but in any case also protection. What is also important is that every product we produce must be also competitive in the exports themselves. In the case of exports, there should also be a specific strategy for access to individual markets. Here again, I think we must have help and our embassies to help. What is good is that the objectives of this strategy are clearly defined and I don't think any of the MPs are against it, to grow the volume of industrial production in these years by 2020 at an annual rate of 2.85. The growth of the number of new jobs is 85,000 and something else. Productivity growth, export growth. And this strategy also defines exactly what 4 key areas are. The creation of a stable investment environment, the promotion of strategic cooperation between industry and the education system, the restructuring of public administration and administration and development and the capital market. These are the foundations on which this industrial strategy rests. And it would be best if the debates during today were constructive. Because this is a strategy for neither left nor right, this is an industrial production strategy that primarily benefits the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and especially entrepreneurs. A fellow Gjurkovic said the rest in his debate. Like the club, I'm sure we'll support this. I will support such an industrial strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88507	Thank you. The final minutes of this debate belong to Deputy Minister of Economy, respected Alan Leveric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88508	I won't be long, I'd just like to recap, use the end of the final word of this debate and begin to thank everyone who participated in making this strategy because, as you know, when the strategy started, we went to all the districts, we were in all the chambers, we talked to all the entrepreneurs, craftsmen, owners, small and large, representatives of the unit of local and regional self-government. Thanks again to everyone. Because this document has just passed through these districts in conversation with entrepreneurs of this matter and these goals have been crystallized. And I also thank you for today's debate and just to tell you, as far as the strategies are concerned, one important thing is the strategy is the living document. It's not a document that was brought in today. The strategy is a living document for two reasons. If you read at the end of the strategy all things are measurable. There are KPIs, there's a balance card, it's mentioned several times in the strategy. And, of course, those measures through action plans that will not be implemented, i.e. do not give the results expected to go into change, revision and action plans at the end and strategy. Once again, this is a living document. I would also just like to be absolutely clear about one thing, there is no honourable representative of Mirala Holly, but I am sorry she did not read page 321 on the restructuring of public administration. It's all there and it's completely clear. And as for its support theme, I think that what is said already works in Croatia since Croatia's entry into the EU and all support must be registered and all support must be consistent with the EU. Thank you again for this debate that lasted all day, but it was very, very useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88509	I thank Deputy Leveric and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we're gonna end today's work day. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. at 6 p.m., which is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-16-0.u88510	The following is the proposal for an industrial strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014. - 2020. The debate on the text of the strategy is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. One, in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system as parent, as well as in all other working bodies, as well as at the session of the Assembly, will hold a preliminary debate on the adoption of a strategy to determine whether there are reasons for the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and for the processing of planning acts in accordance with the uniform methodological rules for the production of acts to be adopted as soon as possible by the Croatian Parliament. The debate referred to in point 1 shall take place prior to the adoption of the education, science and technology strategy and before the discussion of the proposal for a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste used sources of spent nuclear fuel and the proposal for an industrial strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014-2020. Secondly, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system undertakes to comply with its obligations under Article 60(1) of Regulation (EC) No 10 and 11 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes an appropriate arrangement of the part-round content of the general legal force of the majority necessary for the adoption and duration of the strategies and other planning acts by supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Third, it undertakes the Legislative Committee to make its commitments under Article 62(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as soon as possible, proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of uniform methodological nomotechnical rules for the making of acts and that these proposals should also cover the planning acts. Fourth, this conclusion will be published in the NN. It does, to vote the proposed conclusion. Please vote. The vote is over. I find the proposal locked didn't get the necessary majority. 40 MPs voted for the conclusion, 7 deputies were abstentioned and 70 MPs were against it. Thank you very much. I am now voting on the proposal for a strategy. Please vote on the strategy. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 84 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 27 against the adoption of the Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia on 2014-2020 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
